Overview
American Airlines Group Inc. (AAG), a Delaware corporation, is a holding company and its principal, wholly-owned subsidiaries are American Airlines, Inc. (American), Envoy Aviation Group Inc. (Envoy), PSA Airlines, Inc. (PSA) and Piedmont Airlines, Inc. (Piedmont). AAG was formed in 1982 under the name AMR Corporation (AMR) as the parent company of American, which was founded in 1934. 
AAG’s and American’s principal executive offices are located at 1 Skyview Drive, Fort Worth, Texas 76155 and their telephone number is 817-963-1234.
Airline Operations
Together with our wholly-owned regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers operating as American Eagle, our primary business activity is the operation of a major network air carrier, providing scheduled air transportation for passengers and cargo through our hubs in Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas/Fort Worth, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Phoenix and Washington, D.C. and partner gateways, including in London, Madrid, Seattle/Tacoma, Sydney and Tokyo (among others).
Approximately 95 million passengers boarded our flights in 2020, a decrease from approximately 215 million passengers in 2019. During 2020, we experienced an unprecedented decline in the demand for air travel due to the impact of coronavirus (COVID-19). COVID-19 has been declared a global health pandemic by the World Health Organization and has surfaced in nearly all regions of the world, which has driven the implementation of significant, government-imposed measures to prevent or reduce its spread, including travel restrictions, testing regimes, closing of borders, “stay at home” orders and business closures. While the length and severity of the reduction in demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain, our business, operations and financial condition in 2020 was severely impacted.
As of December 31, 2020, we operated 855 mainline aircraft supported by our regional airline subsidiaries and third-party regional carriers, which operated an additional 544 regional aircraft. See Part I, Item 2. Properties for further discussion on our mainline and regional aircraft and “Regional” below for further discussion on our regional operations.
American is a founding member of the oneworld® Alliance, which brings together a global network of 13 world-class member airlines and their affiliates, working together to provide a superior and seamless travel experience. See below for further discussion on the oneworld Alliance and other agreements with domestic and international airlines.
See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations –“2020 Financial Overview,” “AAG’s Results of Operations” and “American’s Results of Operations” for further discussion of AAG’s and American’s operating results and operating performance. Also, see Note 14 to AAG’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8A and Note 12 to American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8B for information regarding operating segments and see Note 1(l) to each of AAG’s and American’s Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Items 8A and 8B, respectively, for passenger revenue by geographic region. 
Regional
Our regional carriers provide scheduled air transportation under the brand name “American Eagle.” The American Eagle carriers include our wholly-owned regional carriers Envoy, PSA and Piedmont, as well as third-party regional carriers including Republic Airways Inc. (Republic), SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest), and Mesa Airlines, Inc. (Mesa). In addition, Compass Airlines, LLC operated regional jet aircraft for us during 2020; however, this arrangement ended in April 2020. Our regional carriers are an integral component of our operating network. We rely heavily on regional carriers to drive feeder traffic to our hubs from low-density markets that are not economical for us to serve with larger, mainline aircraft. In addition, regional carriers offer complementary service in many of our mainline markets. All American Eagle carriers use logos, service marks, aircraft paint schemes and uniforms similar to those of our mainline operations. In 2020, approximately 30 million passengers boarded our regional carriers’ planes, approximately 48% of whom connected to or from our mainline flights, a decrease from approximately 59 million passengers in 2019, due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic.
7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Substantially all of our regional carrier arrangements are in the form of capacity purchase agreements. The capacity purchase agreements provide that all revenues, including passenger, in-flight, ancillary, mail and freight revenues, go to us. We control marketing, scheduling, ticketing, pricing and seat inventories. In return, we agree to pay predetermined fees to these airlines for operating an agreed-upon number of aircraft, without regard to the number of passengers on board. In addition, these agreements provide that we either reimburse or pay 100% of certain variable costs, such as airport landing fees, fuel and passenger liability insurance. 
Cargo
Our cargo division provides a wide range of freight and mail services, with facilities and interline connections available across the globe. In 2020, we expanded our cargo service and launched our first cargo-only flights since 1984 to transport critical goods, including the COVID-19 vaccine, between the U.S. and Europe, Asia and Latin America. We operated more than 5,200 cargo-only flights serving 41 destinations. These cargo-only flights have helped our customers move more than 167 million pounds of critical goods around the world amidst the COVID-19 pandemic.
Distribution and Marketing Agreements
Passengers can purchase tickets for travel on American through several distribution channels, including our website (www.aa.com), our mobile app, our reservations centers and third-party distribution channels, including those provided by or through global distribution systems (e.g., Amadeus, Sabre and Travelport), conventional travel agents, travel management companies and online travel agents (e.g., Expedia, including its booking sites Orbitz and Travelocity, and Booking Holdings, including its booking sites Kayak and Priceline). To remain competitive, we will need to manage our distribution costs and rights effectively, increase our distribution flexibility and improve the functionality of our proprietary and third-party distribution channels, while maintaining an industry-competitive cost structure. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “We rely on third-party distribution channels and must manage effectively the costs, rights and functionality of these channels.”
In general, beyond nonstop city pairs, carriers that have the greatest ability to seamlessly connect passengers to and from markets have a competitive advantage. In some cases, however, foreign governments limit U.S. air carriers’ rights to transport passengers beyond designated gateway cities in foreign countries. In order to improve access to domestic and foreign markets, we have arrangements with other airlines including through the oneworld Alliance, other cooperation agreements, joint business agreements, and marketing relationships, as further discussed below.
Member of oneworld Alliance
American is a founding member of the oneworld Alliance, which currently includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Iberia, Japan Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas Airways (Qantas), Qatar Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines and SriLankan Airlines. Fiji Airways is a oneworld connect partner and Alaska Airlines is a oneworld member elect, expected to join the oneworld Alliance in 2021. The oneworld Alliance links the networks of member carriers and their respective affiliates to enhance customer service and provide smooth connections to the destinations served by the alliance, including linking the carriers’ loyalty programs and providing access to the carriers’ airport lounge facilities.
Cooperation and Joint Business Agreements
American has established a transatlantic joint business with British Airways, Aer Lingus, Iberia and Finnair, a transpacific joint business with Japan Airlines and a joint business relating to Australia and New Zealand with Qantas, each of which has been granted antitrust immunity. Joint business agreements enable the carriers involved to cooperate on flights between particular destinations and allow pooling and sharing of certain revenues and costs, enhanced loyalty program reciprocity and cooperation in other areas. American and its joint business partners received regulatory approval to enter into these cooperation agreements. Joint business agreements have become a common approach among major carriers to address key regulatory restrictions typically applicable to international airline service, including limitations on the foreign ownership of airlines and national laws prohibiting foreign airlines from carrying passengers beyond specific gateway cities. Our competitors, including Delta Air Lines and United Airlines, are party to similar arrangements.
The business relationship under the transatlantic joint business benefits from a grant of antitrust immunity from the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) and was reviewed by the European Commission (EC) in July 2010. In connection with this review, we provided certain commitments to the EC regarding, among other things, the availability of take-off and landing slots at London Heathrow (LHR) or London Gatwick (LGW) airports. The commitments accepted by the EC were binding for 10 years. In October 2018, in anticipation of the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union (EU), 
8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
commonly referred to as Brexit, and the expiry of the EC commitments in July 2020, the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) opened an investigation into the transatlantic joint business. We continue to fully cooperate with the CMA and, in September 2020, the CMA adopted interim measures that effectively extend the EC commitments for an additional three years until March 2024 in light of the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic. The CMA plans to complete its investigation before the interim measures expire. In December 2020, the DOT issued its final approval for the inclusion of Aer Lingus, which is owned by the parent company of British Airways and Iberia, into the transatlantic joint business and granted antitrust immunity.
Marketing Relationships
To improve access to each other’s markets, various U.S. and foreign air carriers, including American, have established marketing agreements with other airlines. These marketing agreements generally provide enhanced customer choice by means of an expanded network with reciprocal loyalty program participation and joint sales cooperation. As of December 31, 2020, American had codeshare and/or loyalty program relationships with Aer Lingus, Air Tahiti Nui, Alaska Airlines, British Airways, Cape Air, Cathay Pacific, China Southern Airlines Company Limited (China Southern Airlines), EL AL Israel Airlines, Etihad Airways, Fiji Airways, Finnair, GOL, Gulf Air, Hawaiian Airlines, Iberia, Interjet Airlines, Japan Airlines, Jetstar Airways, Jetstar Japan, JetBlue Airways Corporation (JetBlue), Korean Air Lines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas, Qatar Airways, Royal Air Maroc, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines, Seaborne Airlines, SriLankan Airlines and Vueling Airlines.
In 2020, we entered into an expanded marketing relationship with Alaska Airlines. This arrangement, once implemented, will expand our existing codeshare relationship, including codeshare on certain of our international routes from Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA) and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), and will provide for reciprocal loyalty program benefits and shared lounge access. Pursuant to federal law, American and Alaska Airlines submitted this proposed arrangement to the DOT for review. After the DOT allowed the review period to expire with no further actions, American and Alaska Airlines commenced implementation of this arrangement.
Also, in 2020, we announced our intention to enter into a marketing relationship with JetBlue. This arrangement, once implemented, will include an alliance agreement with reciprocal codesharing on domestic and international routes from New York (John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), La Guardia Airport (LGA), and Newark Liberty International Airport (EWR)) and Boston Logan International Airport (BOS), and will provide for reciprocal loyalty program benefits. The arrangement does not include JetBlue’s future transatlantic flying. Pursuant to federal law, American and JetBlue submitted this proposed alliance arrangement to the DOT for review. After American, JetBlue and the DOT agreed to a series of commitments, the DOT terminated its review of the proposed alliance. The commitments include growth commitments to ensure capacity expansion, slot divestitures at JFK and at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA) near Washington, D.C. and antitrust compliance measures. Beyond this agreement with the DOT, American and JetBlue will also be refraining from certain kinds of coordination on certain city pair markets. In addition to the DOT review, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the New York Attorney General, the Massachusetts Attorney General, and the Attorneys General of certain other state and local jurisdictions are investigating this proposed alliance, which remains ongoing. American and JetBlue intend to cooperate with those investigations, but are proceeding with plans to implement this alliance.
Loyalty Program
Our loyalty program, AAdvantage®, was established to develop passenger loyalty by offering awards to travelers for their continued patronage. AAdvantage was named Best Elite Program in the Americas for the ninth consecutive year at the 2020 Freddie Awards, which are annual awards that recognize the world’s most outstanding frequent travel programs. AAdvantage members earn mileage credits by flying on American, any oneworld Alliance airline or other partner airlines. For every dollar spent by flying on American, members earn five mileage credits, but Gold, Platinum, Platinum Pro and Executive Platinum elite status holders earn additional bonus mileage credits of 40%, 60%, 80% and 120%, respectively. Members also earn mileage credits by using the services of over 1,000 program participants, such as the Citi and Barclaycard US co-branded credit cards, and certain hotels and car rental companies.
All travel on eligible tickets counts toward qualification for elite status in the AAdvantage program. Mileage credits can be redeemed for free or upgraded travel on American and participating airlines, membership to our Admirals Club® or for other non-flight awards from our program participants. Most travel awards are subject to capacity-controlled seating. A member’s mileage credit generally does not expire as long as that member has any type of qualifying activity at least once every 18 months. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we suspended the expiration of mileage credits through June 30, 2021 and eliminated mileage reinstatement fees for canceled award tickets. Elite members can enjoy additional 
9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
benefits of the AAdvantage program, including complimentary upgrades, checked bags, and Preferred and Main Cabin Extra seats, as well as priority check-in, security, boarding and baggage delivery. We also made it easier for top-tier customers to earn AAdvantage elite status in 2020 and 2021 and extended 2020 AAdvantage status into early 2022 for all members.
Under our agreements with AAdvantage members and program partners, we reserve the right to change the terms of the AAdvantage program at any time and without notice, and may end the program with six months’ notice. Program rules, partners, special offers, awards and requisite mileage levels for awards are subject to change.
During 2020, our members redeemed approximately 7 million awards, including travel redemptions for flights and upgrades on American and other air carriers, as well as redemption of car and hotel awards, club memberships and merchandise. Approximately 6% of our 2020 total revenue passenger miles flown were from award travel.
See Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” for more information on our loyalty program.
Industry Competition
Domestic
The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. On most of our domestic nonstop routes, we face competing service from other domestic airlines, including major network airlines, low-cost carriers and ultra-low-cost carriers such as Alaska Airlines, Allegiant Air, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Hawaiian Airlines, JetBlue, Southwest Airlines, Spirit Airlines and United Airlines. Between cities that require a connection, where the major airlines compete via their respective hubs, competition is significant. In addition, we face competition on some of our connecting routes from airlines operating point-to-point service on such routes. We also compete with all-cargo and charter airlines and, particularly on shorter segments, ground and rail transportation.
On all of our routes, pricing decisions are affected, in large part, by the need to meet competition from other airlines. Price competition occurs on a market-by-market basis through price discounts, changes in pricing structures, fare matching, targeted promotions and loyalty program initiatives. Airlines typically use discounted fares and other promotions to stimulate traffic during normally weak travel periods, when they begin service to new cities, when they have excess capacity, to generate cash flow, to maximize revenue per available seat mile or to establish, increase or preserve market share. Most airlines will quickly match price reductions in a particular market, and we have often elected to match discounted or promotional fares initiated by other air carriers in certain markets in order to compete in those markets. In addition, so-called ultra-low-cost carriers, such as Allegiant Air, Frontier Airlines and Spirit Airlines, compete in many of the markets in which we operate, competition from these carriers is increasing and several new entrants have announced their intention to start up new ultra-low-cost carriers.
In addition to price competition, airlines compete for market share by increasing the size of their route system and the number of markets they serve. The American Eagle regional carriers increase the number of markets we serve by flying to smaller markets and providing connections at our hubs. Many of our competitors also own or have agreements with regional airlines that provide similar services at their hubs and other locations. We also compete on the basis of scheduling (frequency and flight times), availability of nonstop flights, on-time performance, type of equipment, cabin configuration, amenities provided to passengers, loyalty programs, the automation of travel agent reservation systems, onboard products, health and safety and other services. 
International
In addition to our extensive domestic service, we provide international service to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, Central and South America, Asia, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. In providing international air transportation, we compete with other U.S. airlines, foreign investor-owned airlines and foreign state-owned or state-affiliated airlines. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, competition had been increasing from foreign state-owned and state-affiliated airlines in the Gulf region. These carriers have large numbers of international widebody aircraft in service and on order and had been increasing service to the U.S. from locations both in and outside the Middle East. Service to and from locations outside of the Middle East was provided by some of these carriers under so-called “fifth freedom” rights permitted under international treaties which allow service to and from stopover points between an airline’s home country and the ultimate destination. Such flights, such as a stopover in Europe on flights to the United States, allow the carrier to sell tickets for travel between the stopover point and the United States in competition with service provided by us. We believe these state-owned and state-affiliated carriers in the Gulf region, including their affiliated carriers, benefit from significant government subsidies, 
10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
which have allowed them to grow quickly, reinvest in their product and expand their global presence. We expect this to continue after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. Competition had also been increasing from low-cost airlines executing international long-haul expansion strategies, a trend we also expect to continue after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides and the delivery of planned, long-range narrowbody aircraft commences.
In order to increase our ability to compete for international air transportation service, which is subject to extensive government regulation, U.S. and foreign carriers have entered into bilateral and multilateral marketing relationships, alliances, cooperation agreements and joint business agreements to exchange traffic among each other’s flights and route networks. See “Distribution and Marketing Agreements” above for further discussion.
Our People
The airline business is labor intensive, and our team members are our most important asset. The operational complexity of our business requires a diverse team of personnel trained and experienced in a variety of technical areas such as flight operations, ground operations, safety and maintenance, customer service, and airline scheduling and planning. We believe that if we create an environment where our team members feel supported, they will take care of our customers and thereby support the success of our business. To do this, we must continue to build a diverse and inclusive environment, helping all team members reach their full potential and providing them with the right resources and support.
Talent Development
We give our team members the tools, training and resources they need to do their best work and stay true to our purpose – caring for people on life’s journey. We have a suite of programs aimed at helping our people develop the skills and experience to succeed in their roles and build rewarding, long-term careers within our company. Additionally, we’ve partnered with leading online learning platforms to make professional development available on-demand to all our team members.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Cultivating an environment that celebrates diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) is a top priority for us, and we seek to create a workplace where diverse perspectives and experiences are welcomed and encouraged, where team members feel comfortable to be their authentic selves and where we are always learning from one another. In 2020, we:
•established the role of Chief Inclusion and Diversity Officer and created the DEI office within our talent function so that hiring and development is viewed through the lens of equity and inclusion;
•formed a team member experience organization to listen to the concerns of team members;
•launched an Executive Sponsorship Program whereby a group of 15 Black leaders have been paired with an executive leader for a year-long mentorship program; this program will be scaled to an expanded audience starting in late 2021;
•created an implicit bias training program delivered to approximately 105,000 team members;
•launched an external community council composed of executives and a cross-section of Black community leaders to provide feedback on our company initiatives; and
•formed a specialized customer relations team to listen to, resolve and learn from customer complaints of discrimination.
Our DEI goals include:
•diversifying our leadership team by establishing specific objectives and laying out a plan to achieve them, including by enhancing our recruiting, development and mentoring programs;
•providing additional learning opportunities beyond implicit bias to generate further education and awareness of diversity and inclusion matters; and
•pledging to assist Black youth in developing job skills and expanding access to well-paying careers as part of our overall strategy to increase opportunities in our hub cities and Tulsa, Oklahoma, where our largest maintenance facility is based.
11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Competitive Pay and Comprehensive Benefits
We offer competitive pay and comprehensive benefits that support the physical, emotional and financial well-being of our team members. We’re committed to providing medical coverage that is both affordable and flexible along with health care navigation and support tools. Additionally, we launched a well-being program in 2020 to help team members and their families make lasting changes in four key areas: physical, emotional, financial and work.
Our internal recognition programs give team members and customers the opportunity to show their appreciation for a job well done. In 2019, our team members were recognized by customers, peers and company leaders more than 2.5 million times. Last year, we launched a new Nonstop Thanks program whereby team members award each other points for a job well done or as an expression of gratitude. Those points can be redeemed for items in an online catalog. Every quarter, hundreds of team members are nominated for the Chairman’s Award, the highest honor that we bestow upon our team members.
Effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a severe decline in demand for our services. In 2020, we moved quickly to better align our costs with our reduced schedule. In addition to other cost reduction measures discussed below, we suspended all non-essential hiring, paused non-contractual pay rate increases, reduced executive and board of director compensation, implemented voluntary leave and early retirement programs and decreased our management and support staff team, including officers, by approximately 30%. In total, more than 20,000 team members opted for an early retirement or long-term partially paid leave.
Pursuant to the payroll support program (PSP1) established under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, as amended (the CARES Act), the U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) provided us with an aggregate of $6.0 billion of financial assistance in 2020. These funds were used to fund eligible salaries, wages and benefits of our team members. Due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, we involuntarily furloughed certain team members starting October 1, 2020.
Pursuant to the payroll support program (PSP2) established under Subtitle A of Title IV of Division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (PSP Extension Law), Treasury is to provide us financial assistance to be paid in installments expected to total at least $3.0 billion in the aggregate, of which $1.5 billion was received on January 15, 2021. Using these funds, we recalled the involuntarily furloughed team members covered by PSP2 and provided them with back pay to December 1, 2020. PSP2 includes restrictions on involuntary furloughs and reductions in employee pay rates and benefits through March 31, 2021.
On February 5, 2021, we informed approximately 13,000 U.S.-based team members of the possibility of a workforce reduction at their work location. We expect that any workforce reductions will take effect on or after April 1, 2021. In connection with this notification, we announced the reopening of the voluntary early out and long-term leave of absence programs for team members of certain represented workgroups. Eligible team members must opt in by February 26, 2021 for the early out program and March 12, 2021 for the voluntary leave program.
Our future success depends in large part on our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified management, technical and other personnel. For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “The loss of key personnel upon whom we depend to operate our business or the inability to attract and develop additional qualified personnel could adversely affect our business.”
Labor Relations
In 2020, salaries, wages and benefits were our largest expense and represented 45% of our total operating expenses. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 102,700 active full-time equivalent employees, approximately 84% of whom were represented by various labor unions responsible for negotiating the collective bargaining agreements (CBAs) governing their compensation and job duties, among other things. 
12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the Railway Labor Act (RLA), which vests in the National Mediation Board (NMB) certain functions with respect to disputes between airlines and labor unions relating to union representation and CBAs. When an RLA CBA becomes amendable, if either party to the agreement wishes to modify its terms, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed under the RLA and as agreed by the parties. Under the RLA, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and, if no agreement is reached during direct negotiations between the parties, either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator. The RLA prescribes no timetable for the direct negotiation and mediation processes, and it is not unusual for those processes to last for many months or even several years. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB in its discretion may declare that an impasse exists and proffer binding arbitration to the parties. Either party may decline to submit to arbitration and if arbitration is rejected by either party, a 30-day “cooling off” period commences. During or after that period, a Presidential Emergency Board (PEB) may be established, which examines the parties’ positions and recommends a solution. The PEB process lasts for 30 days and is followed by another 30-day “cooling off” period. At the end of this “cooling off” period, unless an agreement is reached or action is taken by Congress, the labor organization may exercise “self-help,” such as a strike, and the airline may resort to its own “self-help,” including the imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments to the CBA and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.
None of the unions representing our employees presently may lawfully engage in concerted slowdowns or refusals to work, such as strikes, sick-outs or other similar activity, against us. Nonetheless, there is a risk that employees, either with or without union involvement, could engage in one or more concerted refusals to work that could individually or collectively harm the operation of our airline and impair our financial performance.
The following table shows our domestic airline employee groups that are represented by unions:
                     
Union  Class or Craft  Employees (1)  Contract
Amendable Date 
Mainline:        
Allied Pilots Association (APA)  Pilots  13,400    2020 
Association of Professional Flight Attendants (APFA)  Flight Attendants  24,550    2019 
Airline Customer Service Employee Association – Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Teamsters (CWA-IBT)   Passenger Service  13,500    2020 
Transport Workers Union and International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers (TWU-IAM Association)   Mechanics and Related  12,300    2025 
TWU-IAM Association  Fleet Service  16,600    2025 
TWU-IAM Association  Stock Clerks  1,750    2025 
TWU-IAM Association  Flight Simulator Engineers  140    2021 
TWU-IAM Association  Maintenance Control Technicians  190    2025 
TWU-IAM Association  Maintenance Training Instructors  50    2025 
Professional Airline Flight Control Association (PAFCA)  Dispatchers  470    2021 
Transport Workers Union (TWU)  Flight Crew Training Instructors  350    2021 
Envoy:        
Air Line Pilots Associations (ALPA)  Pilots  2,150    2024 
Association of Flight Attendants-CWA (AFA)  Flight Attendants  1,500    2020 
TWU  Ground School Instructors  10    2023 
TWU  Mechanics and Related  1,400    2020 
TWU  Stock Clerks  140    2020 
TWU  Fleet Service  3,800    2019 
TWU  Dispatchers  70    2025 
Communications Workers of America (CWA)  Passenger Service  4,850    2026 

13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
                     
Union  Class or Craft  Employees (1)  Contract
Amendable Date 
Piedmont:        
ALPA  Pilots  550    2024 
AFA  Flight Attendants  350    2019 
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)  Mechanics and Related  450    2021 
IBT  Stock Clerks  60    2021 
CWA  Fleet and Passenger Service  5,950    2023 
IBT  Dispatchers  30    2019 
ALPA  Flight Crew Training Instructors  30    2024 
PSA:        
ALPA  Pilots  1,750    2023 
AFA  Flight Attendants  1,150    2023 
International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers (IAM)  Mechanics and Related  800    2022 
TWU  Dispatchers  60    2022 

   
 

(1)Represents approximate number of active employees as well as employees who opted for a voluntary partially paid leave as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as of December 31, 2020.
Joint collective bargaining agreements (JCBAs) have been reached with post-Merger employee groups, including a new five-year JCBA ratified on March 26, 2020 by the TWU-IAM Association, which represents the mechanics and related, fleet service, stock clerks, maintenance control technicians and maintenance training instructors. Additionally, the post-Merger JCBAs covering our pilots and flight attendants are now amendable. JCBAs covering passenger service employees and dispatchers are also amendable.
Among our wholly-owned regional subsidiaries, the Envoy flight attendants, Envoy mechanics and related, Envoy stock clerks, Envoy fleet service clerks, Piedmont flight attendants and Piedmont dispatchers have agreements that are now amendable and are engaged in traditional RLA negotiations.
For more discussion, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Union disputes, employee strikes and other labor-related disruptions, or our inability to otherwise maintain labor costs at competitive levels may adversely affect our operations and financial performance.”
Aircraft Fuel
Our operations and financial results are materially affected by the availability and price of aircraft fuel, which represents one of the largest single cost items in our business. Based on our 2021 forecasted mainline and regional fuel consumption, we estimate that a one cent per gallon increase in the price of aircraft fuel would increase our 2021 annual fuel expense by $38 million.
The following table shows annual aircraft fuel consumption and costs, including taxes, for our mainline and regional operations for 2020 and 2019 (gallons and aircraft fuel expense in millions).
                        
Year Gallons  Average  Price
per Gallon  Aircraft  Fuel
Expense  Percent of Total
Operating Expenses 
2020 2,297  $1.48  $3,402  12.3% 
2019 4,537  2.07  9,395  22.0% 

As of December 31, 2020, we did not have any fuel hedging contracts outstanding to hedge our fuel consumption. We do not currently view the market opportunities to hedge fuel prices as attractive because, among other things, our future fuel needs remain unclear due to uncertainties regarding air travel demand and any hedging would potentially require significant capital or collateral to be placed at risk. As such, and assuming we do not enter into any future transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, we will continue to be fully exposed to fluctuations in aircraft fuel prices. Our current policy is not to enter into transactions to hedge our fuel consumption, although we review that policy from time to time based on market conditions and other factors.
14
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Aircraft fuel prices have in the past, and may in the future, experience substantial volatility. We cannot predict the future availability, price volatility or cost of aircraft fuel. Natural disasters (including hurricanes or similar events in the U.S. Southeast and on the Gulf Coast where a significant portion of domestic refining capacity is located), political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, economic sanctions imposed against oil-producing countries or specific industry participants, changes in fuel-related governmental policy, the strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, changes in the cost to transport or store petroleum products, changes in access to petroleum product pipelines and terminals, speculation in the energy futures markets, changes in aircraft fuel production capacity or competing demand for fuel from other transport industries, such as maritime shipping, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages, distribution challenges, additional fuel price volatility and cost increases in the future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Our business is very dependent on the price and availability of aircraft fuel. Continued periods of high volatility in fuel costs, increased fuel prices or significant disruptions in the supply of aircraft fuel could have a significant negative impact on consumer demand, our operating results and liquidity.”
Seasonality and Other Factors
Due to the greater demand for air travel during the summer months, revenues in the airline industry in the second and third quarters of the year tend to be greater than revenues in the first and fourth quarters of the year. General economic conditions, fears of terrorism or war, fare initiatives, fluctuations in fuel prices, labor actions, weather, natural disasters, outbreaks of disease and other factors could impact this seasonal pattern. Therefore, our quarterly results of operations are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.
The COVID-19 outbreak, along with the measures governments and private organizations worldwide have implemented in an attempt to contain the spread of this pandemic, has resulted in a severe decline in demand for air travel, which has adversely affected our business, operations and financial condition to an unprecedented extent, and affected the traditional seasonal trends of the airline business. Measures ranging from travel restrictions, including testing regimes, “stay at home” and quarantine orders, limitations on public gatherings to cancellation of public events and many others have resulted in a precipitous decline in demand for both domestic and international business and leisure travel.
Domestic and Global Regulatory Landscape
General
Airlines are subject to extensive domestic and international regulatory requirements. Domestically, the DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.
The DOT, among other things, oversees and regulates domestic and international codeshare agreements, international route authorities, competition and consumer protection matters such as advertising, denied boarding compensation and baggage liability. The Antitrust Division of the DOJ, along with the DOT in certain instances, have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters.
The FAA similarly exercises safety oversight and regulates most operational matters of our business, including how we operate and maintain our aircraft. FAA requirements cover, among other things, required technology and necessary onboard equipment; systems, procedures and training necessary to ensure the continuous airworthiness of our fleet of aircraft; safety measures and equipment; crew scheduling limitations and experience requirements; and many other technical aspects of airline operations. Additionally, our pilots and other employees are subject to rigorous certification standards, and our pilots and other crew members must adhere to flight time and rest requirements. In 2021, the FAA is expected to issue a number of rules that will impact us, including regulations mandating certain rest requirements for flight attendants.
The FAA also controls the national airspace system, including operational rules and fees for air traffic control (ATC) services. The efficiency, reliability and capacity of the ATC network has a significant impact on our costs and on the timeliness of our operations.
The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services.
15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Airport Access and Operations
Domestically, any U.S. airline authorized by the DOT is generally free to operate scheduled passenger service between any two points within the U.S. and its territories, with the exception of certain airports that require landing and take-off rights and authorizations (slots) and other facilities, and certain airports that impose geographic limitations on operations or curtail operations based on the time of day. Operations at three major domestic airports we serve (JFK and LGA in New York City, and DCA near Washington, D.C.) and many foreign airports we serve (including LHR) are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of slots or similar regulatory mechanisms that limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at those airports. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period. In addition to slot restrictions, operations at DCA and LGA are also limited based on a so-called “perimeter rule” which generally limits the stage length of the flights that can be operated from those airports to 1,250 and 1,500 miles, respectively.
Our ability to provide service can also be impaired at airports, such as Chicago O’Hare International Airport (ORD) and LAX where the airport gate and other facilities are currently inadequate to accommodate all of the service that we would like to provide, or airports such as Dallas Love Field Airport where we have no access to gates at all.
Existing law also permits domestic local airport authorities to implement procedures and impose restrictions designed to abate noise, provided such procedures and restrictions do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national transportation system. In some instances, these restrictions have caused curtailments in service or increases in operating costs.
Airline Fares, Taxes and User Fees
Airlines are permitted to establish their own domestic fares without governmental regulation. The DOT maintains authority over certain international fares, rates and charges, but only applies this authority on a limited basis. In addition, international fares and rates are sometimes subject to the jurisdiction of the governments of the foreign countries which we serve.
Airlines are obligated to collect a federal excise tax, commonly referred to as the “ticket tax,” on domestic and international air transportation, and to collect other taxes and charge other fees, such as foreign taxes, security fees and passenger facility charges. Although these taxes and fees are not our operating expenses, they represent an additional cost to our customers. These taxes and fees are subject to increase from time to time. The CARES Act provided for a temporary tax holiday from collecting and remitting certain government ticket taxes for tickets purchased between March 28, 2020 and December 31, 2020.
DOT Passenger Protection Rules
The DOT regulates airline interactions with passengers through the ticketing process, at the airport and on board the aircraft. Among other things, these regulations govern how our fares are displayed online, required customer disclosures, access by disabled passengers, handling of long onboard flight delays and reporting of mishandled bags. In 2021, the DOT is expected to implement a number of new regulations that will impact us, including disability rules for accessible lavatories and wheelchair assistance, and refunds for checked bag fees in the event of certain delays in delivery.
International
International air transportation is subject to extensive government regulation, including aviation agreements between the U.S. and other countries or governmental authorities, such as the EU and the United Kingdom. Moreover, our alliances with international carriers may be subject to the jurisdiction and regulations of various foreign agencies. The U.S. government has negotiated “open skies” agreements with 130 trading partners, which allow unrestricted route authority access between the U.S. and the foreign markets. While the U.S. has worked to increase the number of countries with which open skies agreements are in effect, a number of markets important to us, including China, do not have open skies agreements.
In addition, foreign countries impose passenger protection rules, which are analogous to, and often meet or exceed the requirements of, the DOT passenger protection rules discussed above. In cases where these foreign requirements exceed the DOT rules, we may bear additional burdens and liabilities. Further, various foreign airport authorities impose noise and curfew restrictions at their local airports.
16
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Security
Since shortly after the events of September 11, 2001, substantially all aspects of civil aviation security in the U.S. or affecting U.S. carriers have been controlled or regulated by the federal government through the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Requirements include flight deck security; carriage of federal air marshals at no charge; enhanced security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees and vendors; fingerprint-based background checks of all employees and vendor employees with access to secure areas of airports; and the provision of certain passenger data to the federal government and other international border security authorities, for security and immigration controls. Funding for the TSA is provided by a combination of air carrier fees, passenger fees and taxpayer funds. Customs and Border Protection, which, like the TSA, is part of the Department of Homeland Security, also promulgates requirements, performs services and collects fees that impact our provision of services. Additionally, we have at times found it necessary or desirable to make significant expenditures to comply with security-related requirements while seeking to reduce their impact on our customers, such as expenditures for automated security screening lines at airports. Our international service further requires us to comply with the civil aviation security regimes imposed at the foreign airports we serve. 
Environmental Matters
Environmental Regulation
The airline industry is subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters in the U.S. and other countries. U.S. federal laws that have a particular impact on our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (Superfund Act). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies have been authorized to promulgate regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under the aforementioned federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted environmental laws and regulations which are similar to or stricter than federal requirements.
Revised underground storage tank regulations issued by the EPA in 2015 have affected certain airport fuel hydrant systems, with modifications of such systems needed in order to comply with applicable portions of the revised regulations. In addition, related to the EPA and state regulations pertaining to storm water management, several U.S. airport authorities are actively engaged in efforts to limit discharges of deicing fluid into the environment, often by requiring airlines to participate in the building or reconfiguring of airport deicing facilities.
The environmental laws to which we are subject include those related to responsibility for potential soil and groundwater contamination. We are conducting investigation and remediation activities to address soil and groundwater conditions at several sites, including airports and maintenance bases. We presently anticipate that the ongoing costs of such activities will not have a material impact on our operations. In addition, we have been named as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at certain Superfund sites. Our alleged volumetric contributions at such sites are relatively small in comparison to total contributions of all PRPs. Accordingly, we presently anticipate that any future payments of costs at such sites will not have a material impact on our operations.
We employ an environmental management system that provides a systematic approach for compliance with environmental regulations and management of a broad range of issues including air emissions, hazardous waste disposal, underground tanks, and aircraft water quality. 
Aircraft Emissions and Climate Change Requirements
Efforts to transition to a low-carbon future have increased the focus by global, regional and national regulators on climate change and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We have taken a number of actions that mitigate the GHG emitted by our operations both en route and on the ground, such as:
•retiring older, less fuel-efficient aircraft and replacing them with new, more fuel-efficient aircraft, resulting in the youngest mainline fleet of any U.S. network carrier;
•reducing fuel consumption through operational initiatives such as single-engine taxi, optimal planned arrival fuel and our new flight planning system;
•entering into an agreement with a leading producer of renewable fuels to purchase nine million gallons of sustainable alternative aircraft fuel over three years;
17
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
•working with the FAA and vendors to facilitate efficient airspace procedures, which also reduces aircraft emissions;
•updating our fleet with lightweight interiors including seats and furnishings and replacing existing cargo containers with lighter weight versions; 
•replacing older, inefficient ground support equipment with new, more fuel-efficient ground support equipment, including alternative-fuel and electric powered equipment;
•purchasing renewable electricity to reduce indirect emissions associated with the production of the power we consume; and
•obtaining certification of certain of our buildings to the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) standard.
In addition, American is subject to the requirements of the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), an international, market-based emissions reduction program adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) in 2016. CORSIA is intended to achieve carbon-neutral growth in the international aviation sector from 2021 through 2035 by requiring airlines to compensate for the growth in carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, relative to a predetermined baseline, of a significant majority of international flights through the purchase of carbon offsets or the use of low-carbon fuels. For each year from 2021 through 2029, CORSIA requires each airline to compensate for the rate of growth of the CO2 emissions of the aviation sector as a whole as determined by ICAO. Starting in 2030, CORSIA will require airlines to compensate for growth in CO2 emissions using a formula determined by ICAO that will combine the growth in aviation sector emissions and the growth in the individual airline’s emissions, with the proportion of the latter rising from at least 20 percent over the period 2030-2032 to at least 70 percent over the period 2033-2035.
ICAO originally defined the baseline as the average emissions from covered flights in 2019 and 2020. However, due to the impact of the pandemic on air travel, in June 2020 ICAO determined to remove 2020 from the baseline for the first few years of CORSIA implementation (2021-2023). Accordingly, we do not expect to be required to purchase offset credits over that period, unless the recovery in demand for international travel is unexpectedly strong and exceeds that of 2019 in those years. 
At this time, the costs of complying with our future obligations under CORSIA are uncertain, primarily because of the difficulty in estimating the return of demand for international air travel in the recovery from the pandemic. There is also significant uncertainty with respect to the future supply and price of carbon offset credits and sustainable or lower carbon aircraft fuels that could allow us to reduce our emissions of CO2. In addition, as described above, we will not directly control our CORSIA compliance costs because our compliance obligations through 2029 are based on the growth in emissions of the global aviation sector and begin to incorporate a factor for individual airline operator emissions growth starting in 2030. 
For more information on American’s approach to environmental, social and governance issues, see our 2019-2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report at aa.com/esg. None of the information or contents of our 2019-2020 Environmental, Social and Governance Report is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Impact of Regulatory Requirements on Our Business
Regulatory requirements, including but not limited to those discussed above, affect operations and increase operating costs for the airline industry, including our airline subsidiaries, and future regulatory developments may continue to do the same in the future. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors – “Evolving data security and privacy requirements could increase our costs, and any significant data security incident could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation, expose us to legal risks and otherwise materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition,” “If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate facilities and infrastructure throughout our system and, at some airports, adequate slots, we may be unable to operate our existing flight schedule and to expand or change our route network in the future, which may have a material adverse impact on our operations,” “Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which may result in increases in our costs, disruptions to our operations, limits on our operating flexibility, reductions in the demand for air travel, and competitive disadvantages,” “The airline industry is heavily taxed,” “We are subject to many forms of environmental and noise regulation and may incur substantial costs as a result,” and “We are subject to risks associated with climate change, including increased regulation of our CO2 emissions, changing consumer preferences and the potential increased impacts of severe weather events on our operations and infrastructure” for additional information.
18
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
Available Information
Use of Websites to Disclose Information
Our website is located at www.aa.com. We have made and expect in the future to make public disclosures to investors and the general public of information regarding AAG and its subsidiaries by means of the investor relations section of our website as well as through the use of our social media sites, including Facebook and Twitter. In order to receive notifications regarding new postings to our website, investors are encouraged to enroll on our website to receive automatic email alerts (see https://americanairlines.gcs-web.com/email-alerts), “follow” American (@AmericanAir) on Twitter and “like” American on our Facebook page (www.facebook.com/AmericanAirlines). None of the information or contents of our website or social media postings is incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Availability of SEC Reports
A copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.


19
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
“103-12 Investment Trust” means the 103-12 investment entity into which our pension plan master trust invests plan assets and which facilitates investing the plan assets of more than one unrelated employer.
“2013 Credit Agreement” means the Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 21, 2015, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended.
“2013 Credit Facilities” means the 2013 Revolving Facility and 2013 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2013 Credit Agreement.
“2013 Framework” means the criteria for internal control over financial reporting as set forth in the Internal Control – Internal Framework by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
“2013 Plan” means the AAG 2013 Incentive Award Plan.
“2013 Revolving Facility” means the $750 million revolving credit facility provided for by the 2013 Credit Agreement. 
“2013 Term Loan Facility” means the $1.9 billion term loan facility provided for under the 2013 Credit Agreement.
“2014 Credit Agreement” means the Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of April 20, 2015, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended. 
“2014 Credit Facilities” means the 2014 Revolving Facility and the 2014 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.
“2014 Revolving Facility” means the $1.6 billion revolving credit facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement. 
“2014 Term Loan Facility” means the $1.2 billion term loan facility provided for by the 2014 Credit Agreement.
“2016 JFK Bonds” means special facility revenue bonds issued on behalf of American by NYTDC in June 2016.
“2019 Form 10-K” means AAG’s and American’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.
“2019-1 Aircraft” means the 35 aircraft financed by American under the 2019-1 Aircraft EETCs. 
“2019-1 Aircraft EETCs” means the three pass-through trusts created by American in August 2019 that have issued approximately $1.1 billion aggregate face amount of Series 2019-1 Class AA, Class A and Class B EETCs.
“2019-1 Engine EETCs” means the $650 million in aggregate face amount of 2019-1 Engine EETCs.
“2020 JFK Bonds” means the approximately $360 million of special facility revenue bonds issued on behalf of American by NYTDC in June 2020.
“3.75% Senior Notes” mean 3.75% senior notes due 2025 with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million.
“5.000% Senior Notes” means the 5.000% senior notes due in 2022 with an aggregate principal amount of $750 million. 
“10.75% Senior Secured Notes” means, collectively, the LGA/DCA Notes and the IP Notes.
“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Closing Date” means September 25, 2020.
“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means the IP Collateral and LGA/DCA Collateral. 
“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Indentures” means the IP Notes Indenture and the LGA/DCA Notes Indenture.
“10.75% Senior Secured Notes Trustee” means Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee with respect to the 10.75% Senior Secured Notes.
“11.75% Senior Secured Notes” means the 11.75% senior secured notes due in 2025 with an aggregate principal amount of $2.5 billion.
20
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means the First Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral and the Second Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral.
“11.75% Senior Secured Notes Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of June 30, 2020, by and among American, AAG and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee.
“11.75% Senior Secured Notes Trustee” means Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee with respect to the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes.
“AAdvantage” means the AAdvantage® frequent flyer program. 
“AAG”, “we”, “us”, “our” and similar terms means American Airlines Group Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
“ABO” means accumulated benefit obligation. 
“AFA” means Association of Flight Attendants-CWA. 
“ALPA” means Air Line Pilots Association.
“American” means American Airlines, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAG.
“American Eagle” means our regional carriers, including our wholly-owned regional carriers Envoy, PSA and Piedmont, as well as third-party regional carriers including Mesa, Republic and SkyWest. 
“AMR” or “AMR Corporation” means AMR Corporation and is used to reference AAG during the period of time prior to its emergence from Chapter 11 and the Merger. 
“AMT” means alternative minimum tax.
“AOCI” means accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
“APA” means Allied Pilots Association. 
“APFA” means Association of Professional Flight Attendants.
“April 2016 Credit Agreement” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of April 29, 2016, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended.
“April 2016 Credit Facilities” means the April 2016 Revolving Facility and April 2016 Term Loan Facility provided for by the 2016 Credit Agreement.
“April 2016 Revolving Facility” means the $450 million revolving credit facility provided for by the April 2016 Credit Agreement.
“April 2016 Term Loan Facility” means the $1,000 million term loan facility provided for by the April 2016 Credit Agreement.
“ASC” means the FASB Accounting Standards Codification.
“ASC 350” means the FASB Accounting Standards Codification relating to “Intangibles - Goodwill and Other.”
“ASC 360” means the FASB Accounting Standards Codification relating to “Property, Plant, and Equipment.”
“ASM” means available seat mile and is a basic measure of production. One ASM represents one seat flown one mile. 
“ASU” means Accounting Standards Update.
“ATC” means air traffic control.
“ATC system” means the U.S. National Airspace System.
“Aviation Act” means subtitle VII of Title 49 of the United States Code, as amended.
21
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“Bankruptcy Court” means the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
“Base Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of June 25, 2020, between AAG and the Convertible Notes Trustee. 
“Bylaws” means AAG’s Amended and Restated Bylaws, as amended.
“CARES Act” means the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, as amended. 
“CASM” means operating cost per available seat mile and is equal to operating expenses divided by ASMs. 
“CBAs” means collective bargaining agreements. 
“CEO” means Chief Executive Officer. 
“CFO” means Chief Financial Officer. 
“Chapter 11 Cases” means the voluntary petitions for relief filed on November 29, 2011 by the Debtors. 
“China Southern Airlines” means China Southern Airlines Company Limited. 
“CMA” means the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority. 
“CO2” means carbon dioxide. 
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
“Company” means AAG and its consolidated subsidiaries.
“Convertible Notes” means AAG’s 6.50% convertible senior notes due 2025.
“Convertible Notes Indenture” means the Base Indenture and the Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture.
“Convertible Notes Guarantee” means the full and unconditional guarantee of the Convertible Notes by American. 
“Convertible Notes Supplemental Indenture” means the first supplemental indenture, dated as of June 25, 2020, among AAG, American and the Convertible Notes Trustee.
“Convertible Notes Trustee” means Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee with respect to the Convertible Notes.
“CORSIA” means the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation. 
“COVID-19” means coronavirus. 
“Credit Facilities” means, collectively, the 2013 Credit Facilities, 2014 Credit Facilities, April 2016 Credit Facilities and December 2016 Credit Facilities.
“CWA” means Communications Workers of America. 
“CWA-IBT” means the Airline Employees Customer Service Association – Communications Workers of America and International Brotherhood of Teamsters.
“DCA” means Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.
“DC Court” means the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia. 
“Debtors” means AMR, American, and certain of AMR’s other direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. 
“December 2016 Credit Agreement” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of December 15, 2016, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended.
“December 2016 Credit Facilities” means the revolving credit facility that may be established under the December 2016 Credit Agreement and the December 2016 Term Loan Facility provided for by the December 2016 Credit Agreement.
22
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“December 2016 Term Loan Facility” means the $1.2 billion term loan facility provided for under the December 2016 Credit Agreement.
“Delayed Draw Term Loan Credit Facility” means the Credit and Guaranty Agreement dated as of March 18, 2020, among American, AAG, the lenders from time to time party thereto, Citibank N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other parties thereto, as amended. 
“Disputed Claims Reserve” means a reserve established by the Bankruptcy Court, pursuant to the Plan, to hold shares of AAG common stock for issuance to disputed claimholders at the Effective Date.
“DOJ” means the U.S. Department of Justice.
“DOT” means the U.S. Department of Transportation. 
“EC” means the European Commission. 
“EETC” means enhanced equipment trust certificate. 
“Effective Date” means December 9, 2013. 
“Eighth Amendment” means the Eighth Amendment entered into in January 2020 to the 2014 Credit Agreement.
“Envoy” means Envoy Air Inc.
“EPA” means the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
“EPS” means earnings (loss) per common share.
“ERISA” means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
“Ethics Standards” means AAG’s and American’s Standards of Business Conduct. 
“ETS” means EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
“EU” means European Union. 
"EWR" means Newark Liberty International Airport.
“Exchange Act” means Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
“FAA” means Federal Aviation Administration.
“First Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means certain assets, rights and properties utilized by American in providing its scheduled air carrier services to and from certain airports in the United States and certain airports in Australia, Canada, the Caribbean, Central America, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and Switzerland which are used to secure the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes on a first-lien basis. 
“GAAP” means generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S.
“GDSs” means global distribution systems.
“GHG” means greenhouse gas.
“GSPC” means S&P 500 Index.
“holdback” means an amount of cash held by our credit card processors in certain circumstances (including, with respect to certain agreements, our failure to maintain certain levels of liquidity).
“IAM” means International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers. 
“IAM Pension Fund” means the IAM National Pension Fund.
“IBT” means International Brotherhood of Teamsters. 
23
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“ICAO” means International Civil Aviation Organization. 
“IP Collateral” means certain intellectual property of American, including the “American Airlines” trademark and the “aa.com” domain name in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, to which American has given a first lien security interest to secure the IP Notes.
“IP Notes” means American’s $1.0 billion in initial principal amount of 10.75% senior secured IP notes.
“IP Notes Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of September 25, 2020, by and among American, AAG and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral trustee, pursuant to which the IP Notes were issued. 
“Installment” means the financial assistance payment, in installments, by Treasury pursuant to the PSP2 Agreement.
“JCBA” means joint collective bargaining agreement.
“JetBlue” means JetBlue Airways Corporation.
“JFK” means John F. Kennedy International Airport.
“LAWA” means the Los Angeles World Airports.
“LAX” means Los Angeles International Airport. 
“LEED” means U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design.
“LGA/DCA Collateral” means certain slots related to American’s operations at LGA and DCA and certain other assets that are used as (a) a first-lien security interest to secure the December 2016 Credit Facilities, (b) a first lien security interest to secure the LGA/DCA Notes and (c) a second lien security interest to secure the IP Notes.
“LGA/DCA Notes” means American’s $200 million in initial principal amount of 10.75% senior secured LGA/DCA notes. 
“LGA/DCA Notes Indenture” means the indenture, dated as of September 25, 2020, by and among American, AAG and Wilmington Trust, National Association, as trustee and as collateral trustee, pursuant to which the LGA/DCA Notes were issued. 
“LGA” means LaGuardia Airport. 
“LGW” or “London Gatwick” means London Gatwick Airport. 
“LHR” or “London Heathrow” means London Heathrow Airport.
“LIBOR” means the London interbank offered rate for deposits of U.S. dollars.
“Loyalty Program Revenues” means the revenues received by American and AAG from the AAdvantage loyalty program.
“LTV” means loan to value ratio.
“Mainline” means the operations of American and excludes regional operations. 
“marketing component” means, with respect to the AAdvantage program, the use of intellectual property, including the American brand and access to loyalty program member lists, which is the predominant element in the co-branded credit card agreements, as well as advertising.
“Merger” means the merger of US Airways Group and AMR Corporation on December 9, 2013. 
“Mesa” means Mesa Airlines, Inc.
“New Lease Standard” means ASU 2016-02: Leases (Topic 842)
“New Retirement Standard” means ASU 2017-07: Compensation – Retirement Benefits. 
“New Revenue Standard” means ASU 2014-09: Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
“NMB” means National Mediation Board. 
24
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“NOL Carryforwards” means a deduction in any taxable year for net operating losses carried over from prior taxable years.
“NOLs” means net operating losses. 
“NYSE” means the New York Stock Exchange.
“NYTDC” means the New York Transportation Development Corporation.
“ORD” means Chicago O’Hare International Airport.
“OTAs” means online travel agents.
“PAFCA” means Professional Airline Flight Control Association.
“Passenger load factor” means the percentage of available seats that are filled with revenue passengers. 
“PCAOB” means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in the U.S.
“PEB” means Presidential Emergency Board. 
“Piedmont” means Piedmont Airlines, Inc. 
“Plan” means the Debtors’ fourth amended joint plan of reorganization. 
“PRASM” means passenger revenue per available seat mile and is equal to passenger revenues divided by ASMs. 
“Proxy Statement” means American Airlines Group Inc.’s Proxy Statement for the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders of American Airlines Group Inc. 
“PRP” means potentially responsible party.
“PSA” means PSA Airlines, Inc.
“PSP1” means the payroll support program established under the CARES Act. 
“PSP1 Agreement” means the Payroll Support Program Agreement entered into by the Subsidiaries with Treasury on the PSP1 Closing Date.
“PSP1 Closing Date” means April 20, 2020.
"PSP1 Financial Assistance" means the portion of financial assistance received from Treasury pursuant to the PSP1 Agreement that is not allocated to the PSP1 Warrants or PSP1 Promissory Note.
“PSP1 Maturity Date” means the tenth anniversary of the PSP1 Closing Date.
“PSP1 Promissory Note” means the promissory note issued to Treasury in connection with PSP1.
“PSP1 Warrant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between AAG and Treasury in connection with the PSP1 Agreement, pursuant to which AAG issued PSP1 Warrants to Treasury to purchase up to an aggregate of approximately 14.1 million shares of AAG common stock. 
“PSP1 Warrant Shares” means up to approximately 14.1 million shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to PSP1 Warrants issued by AAG in accordance with the PSP1 Warrant Agreement. 
“PSP1 Warrants” means the warrants issued or to be issued to Treasury pursuant to the PSP1 Warrant Agreement.
“PSP2” means the payroll support program established under the PSP Extension Law. 
“PSP2 Agreement” means the Payroll Support Program Extension Agreement entered into by the Subsidiaries with Treasury on the PSP2 Closing Date.
“PSP2 Closing Date” means January 15, 2021.
“PSP2 Maturity Date” means the tenth anniversary of the PSP2 Closing Date.
25
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“PSP2 Promissory Note” means the promissory note issued to Treasury in connection with PSP2.
“PSP2 Warrant Agreement” means the agreement entered into between AAG and Treasury in connection with the PSP2 Agreement, pursuant to which AAG issued PSP2 Warrants to Treasury to purchase at least 5.7 million shares of AAG common stock. 
“PSP2 Warrant Shares” means at least 5.7 million shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to PSP2 Warrants issued or to be issued by AAG in accordance with the PSP2 Warrant Agreement. 
“PSP2 Warrants” means the warrants issued or to be issued to Treasury pursuant to the PSP2 Warrant Agreement. 
“PSP Extension Law” means Subtitle A of Title IV of Division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.
“Rehabilitation Plan” means the rehabilitation plan adopted by the IAM Pension Fund on April 17, 2019.
“Republic” means Republic Airways Inc. 
“Republic Holdings” means Republic Airways Holdings Inc., the parent company of Republic.
“RLA” means Railway Labor Act. 
“ROU” means right-of-use. 
“RPM” or “RPMs” means revenue passenger mile or miles and is a basic measure of sales volume. One RPM represents one passenger flown one mile. 
“RSUs” means restricted stock units. 
“S&P” means Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC. 
“SEA” means Seattle-Tacoma International Airport.
“SEC” means Securities and Exchange Commission.
“Second Lien 11.75% Senior Secured Notes Collateral” means certain assets, rights and properties utilized by American in providing its scheduled air carrier services to and from certain airports in the United States and certain airports in the European Union and the United Kingdom which are used to secure the 11.75% Senior Secured Notes on a first-lien basis.
“Section 382” means Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. 
“Securities Act” means Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
“SGRs” means slots, foreign gate leaseholds, and routine authorities.
“SkyWest” means SkyWest Airlines, Inc. 
“slots” means landing and take-off rights and authorizations, as required by certain airports. 
“SOFR” means the Secured Overnight Financing Rate. 
“Subsidiaries” means American, Envoy, PSA and Piedmont, each a wholly-owned subsidiary of AAG.
“Superfund Act” means Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act.
“Terminal” means the passenger terminal facility used by American at JFK.
“TRASM” means the total revenue per available seat mile and is equal to the total revenues divided by total mainline and third-party regional carrier ASMs. 
“Treasury” means the U.S. Department of the Treasury. 
26
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Table of Contents
“Treasury Collateral” means American's rights under U.S. co-branded credit card agreements and certain other loyalty program partner participation agreements (including rights to receive cash flows thereunder), documents, deposit accounts, securities accounts, books and records and intellectual property related to American's AAdvantage loyalty program and all proceeds, accessions, rents or profits related to the foregoing.
“Treasury Loan Agreement” means the Loan and Guarantee Agreement, dated as of September 25, 2020, between AAG, American and Treasury which provides for the Treasury Term Loan Facility.
“Treasury Loan Closing Date” means September 25, 2020.
“Treasury Loan Restatement Agreement” means the Restatement Agreement, dated as of October 21, 2020, to the Treasury Loan Agreement.
“Treasury Loan Warrant Agreement” means the warrant agreement, dated as of September 25, 2020, between AAG and Treasury entered into in connection with the Treasury Loan Agreement, pursuant to which AAG will issue Treasury Loan Warrants to Treasury to purchase shares of AAG common stock.
“Treasury Loan Warrants” means the warrants issued or to be issued to Treasury pursuant to the Treasury Loan Warrant Agreement.
“Treasury Loan Warrant Shares” means shares of AAG common stock which Treasury will have the right to purchase pursuant to Treasury Loan Warrants issued by AAG in accordance with the Treasury Loan Warrant Agreement. 
“Treasury Term Loan Facility” means the term loan facility provided for under the Treasury Loan Agreement.
“Treasury Term Loan Maturity Date” means June 30, 2025. 
“TSA” means Transportation Security Administration. 
“TWU” means Transport Workers Union.
“TWU-IAM Association” means Transport Workers Union and International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers.
“US Airways” means US Airways, Inc. 
“US Airways Group” means US Airways Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
“USTR” means the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.
“Withdrawal Agreement” means the agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community. 
“WTO” means World Trade Organization. 
“XAL” means NYSE ARCA Airline Index. 
“Yield” means a measure of airline revenue derived by dividing passenger revenue by RPMs. 
