Unless the context otherwise requires, “Advance,” “we,” “us,” “our,” and similar terms refer to Advance Auto Parts, Inc., its subsidiaries and their respective operations on a consolidated basis. Our fiscal year consists of 52 or 53 weeks ending on the Saturday closest to December 31st of each year. Our fiscal year ended January 2, 2021 (“2020”), included 53 weeks of operation. Fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 (“2019”) and fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 (“2018”) included 52 weeks of operations.


Overview


We are a leading automotive aftermarket parts provider in North America, serving both professional installers (“Professional”) and “do-it-yourself” (“DIY”) customers, as well as independently owned operators. Our stores and branches offer a broad selection of brand name, original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) and private label automotive replacement parts, accessories, batteries and maintenance items for domestic and imported cars, vans, sport utility vehicles and light and heavy duty trucks. As of January 2, 2021, we operated 4,806 total stores and 170 branches primarily under the trade names “Advance Auto Parts,” “Autopart International,” “Carquest” and “Worldpac.” 


We were founded in 1929 as Advance Stores Company, Incorporated and operated as a retailer of general merchandise until the 1980s. During the 1980s, we began targeting the sale of automotive parts and accessories to DIY customers. We initiated our Professional delivery program in 1996 and have steadily increased our sales to Professional customers since 2000. We have grown significantly as a result of comparable store sales growth, new store openings and strategic acquisitions. Advance Auto Parts, Inc., a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 2001 in conjunction with the acquisition of Discount Auto Parts, Inc. In 2014, we acquired General Parts International, Inc. (“GPI”), a privately held company that was a leading distributor and supplier of original equipment and aftermarket automotive replacement products for Professional markets operating under the Carquest and Worldpac trade names. 


Stores and Branches


Through our integrated operating approach, we serve our Professional and DIY customers through a variety of channels ranging from traditional “brick and mortar” store locations to self-service e-commerce sites. We believe we are better able to meet our customers’ needs by operating under several trade names, which are as follows: 


Advance Auto Parts — Our 4,287 stores as of January 2, 2021 are generally located in freestanding buildings with a focus on both Professional and DIY customers. The average size of an Advance Auto Parts store is approximately 7,700 square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles. Our Advance Auto Parts stores carry a product offering of approximately 21,000 stock keeping units (“SKUs”), generally consisting of a custom mix of product based on each store’s respective market. Supplementing the inventory on-hand at our stores, additional less common SKUs are available in many of our larger stores (known as “HUB” stores). These additional SKUs are typically available on a same-day or next-day basis. 


Autopart International — Our 161 stores as of January 2, 2021 operate primarily in the Northeastern and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States with a focus on Professional customers. These stores specialize in imported aftermarket and private label branded auto parts. Autopart International stores offer approximately 47,000 SKUs. 


Carquest — Our 358 stores as of January 2, 2021, including 145 stores in Canada, are generally located in freestanding buildings with a primary focus on Professional customers, but also serve DIY customers. The average size of a Carquest store is approximately 7,200 square feet. These stores carry a wide variety of products serving the aftermarket auto part needs for both domestic and import vehicles with a product offering of approximately 19,000 SKUs. As of January 2, 2021, Carquest also served 1,277 independently owned stores that operate under the “Carquest” name. 


Worldpac — Our 170 branches as of January 2, 2021 principally serve Professional customers utilizing an efficient and sophisticated on-line ordering and fulfillment system. Worldpac branches are generally larger than our other store locations averaging approximately 25,000 square feet in size. Worldpac specializes in imported, OEM parts. Worldpac’s complete     product offering includes over 200,000 SKUs for import and domestic vehicles. 


As part of our transformation efforts, we have consolidated 8 Autopart International (“AI”) stores into the Worldpac format during 2020. Under our strategic business plan, we plan to continue integrating the operations of AI and Worldpac.


2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Our Products 


The following table shows some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:
         
Parts & Batteries Accessories & Chemicals Engine Maintenance 
Batteries and battery accessories Air conditioning chemicals and accessories Air filters 
Belts and hoses Air fresheners Fuel and oil additives 
Brakes and brake pads Antifreeze and washer fluid Fuel filters 
Chassis parts Electrical wire and fuses Grease and lubricants 
Climate control parts Electronics Motor oil 
Clutches and drive shafts Floor mats, seat covers and interior accessories Oil filters 
Engines and engine parts Hand and specialty tools Part cleaners and treatments 
Exhaust systems and parts Lighting Transmission fluid 
Hub assemblies Performance parts  
Ignition components and wire Sealants, adhesives and compounds  
Radiators and cooling parts Tire repair accessories  
Starters and alternators Vent shades, mirrors and exterior accessories  
Steering and alignment parts Washes, waxes and cleaning supplies  
 Wiper blades  



We provide our customers with quality products that are often offered at a good, better or best recommendation differentiated by price and quality. We accept customer returns for many new, core and warranty products.


Our Customers


Our Professional customers consist primarily of customers for whom we deliver product from our store or branch locations to their places of business, including garages, service stations and auto dealers. Our Professional sales represented approximately 57%, 60% and 58% of our sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018. We also serve 1,277 independently owned Carquest stores with shipments directly from our distribution centers. Our DIY customers are primarily served through our stores, but can also order online to pick up merchandise at a conveniently located store or have their purchases shipped directly to them. Except where prohibited, we also provide a variety of services at our stores free of charge to our customers, including:


•Battery and wiper installation;
•Check engine light scanning;
•Electrical system testing, including batteries, starters and alternators;
•“How-To” video clinics;
•Oil and battery recycling; and
•Loaner tool programs.


We also serve our customers online at www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. Our Professional customers can conveniently place their orders electronically, including through MyAdvance.com, by phone, or in-store and we deliver product from our store or branch locations to their places of business.


Store Development


The key factors used in selecting sites and market locations in which we operate include population, demographics, traffic count, vehicle profile, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. As of January 2, 2021, 4,809 stores and branches were located in 49 U.S. states and 2 U.S. territories and 167 stores and branches were located in 9 Canadian provinces.


We serve our stores and branches primarily from our principal corporate offices in Raleigh, NC and Roanoke, VA. We also maintain store support centers in Newark, CA and Norton, MA. 


3
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Supply Chain


Our supply chain consists of a network of distribution centers, HUBs, stores and branches that enable us to provide same-day or next-day availability to our customers. As of January 2, 2021, we operated 51 distribution centers, ranging in size from approximately 50,000 to 950,000 square feet with total square footage of approximately 11.6 million. 


Merchandise, Marketing and Advertising


In 2020, we purchased merchandise from over 1,100 vendors, with no single vendor accounting for more than 10% of purchases. Our purchasing strategy involves negotiating agreements to purchase merchandise over a specified period of time along with other provisions, including pricing, volume and payment terms.


Our merchandising strategy is to carry a broad selection of high quality and reputable brand name automotive parts and accessories that we believe will appeal to our Professional customers and also generate DIY customer traffic. Some of our brands include Bosch®, Castrol®, Dayco®, Denso®, Gates®, Moog®, Monroe®, NGK®, Prestone®, Purolator®, Trico® and Wagner®. In addition to these branded products, we stock a wide selection of high-quality private label products with a goal of appealing to value-conscious customers. These lines of merchandise include chemicals, interior automotive accessories, batteries and parts under various private label names such as Autocraft®, Autopart International®, Driveworks®, Tough One® and Wearever® as well as the Carquest® brand.


On December 23, 2019, we purchased the DieHard® brand for a cash purchase price of $200.0 million. This purchase gave us the right to sell DieHard® batteries and enables us to extend the DieHard® brand into other automotive and vehicular categories. We granted the seller an exclusive royalty-free, perpetual license to develop, market and sell DieHard® branded products in certain non-automotive categories.


Our marketing and advertising program is designed to drive brand awareness, consideration by consumers and omnichannel traffic by position in aftermarket auto parts category. We strive to exceed our customers’ expectations end-to-end through a comprehensive online and in-store pick up experience, extensive parts assortment, quality brands, experienced parts professionals, Professional programs that are designed to build loyalty with our customers and our DIY customer loyalty program. Our DIY campaign was developed around a multi-channel communications plan that brings together radio, television, digital marketing, social media, sponsorships, store execution, public relations and Speed Perks.


Seasonality


Our business is somewhat seasonal in nature, with the highest sales usually occurring in the spring and summer months. In addition, our business can be affected by weather conditions. While unusually heavy precipitation tends to soften sales as elective maintenance is deferred during such periods, extremely hot or cold weather tends to enhance sales by causing automotive parts to fail at an accelerated rate. Our fourth quarter is generally our most volatile as weather and spending trade-offs typically influence our Professional and DIY sales.


Human Capital Management


As of January 2, 2021, we employed approximately 40,000 full-time Team Members and approximately 28,000 part-time Team Members. Our workforce consisted of 82% of our Team Members employed in store-level operations, 12% employed in distribution and 6% employed in our corporate offices. As of January 2, 2021, approximately 1.2% of our Team Members were represented by labor unions. We believe our People are Our Best Part, and we have adopted six Cultural Beliefs to help us foster a culture that fully engages our Team Members with our business: Speak Up, Be Accountable, Take Action, Move Forward, Grow Talent and Champion Inclusion. Our Cultural Belief of Grow Talent highlights the importance to us of developing our Team Members in their careers, and we seek to not only recruit the best talent, but also retain and promote the best talent. Through another of our Cultural Beliefs, Champion Inclusion, we seek to fully leverage the ideas and talents of all our Team Members in caring for our customers. We encourage our Team Members to Speak Up and promote their engagement through a variety of programs and networks within our organization. In 2020, we had record response to our annual organizational health survey, evidencing high engagement company wide, and we plan to continue to invest in our Team Members to help create long-term value for our stakeholders.


4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Intellectual Property 


We own a number of trade names, service marks and trademarks, including “Advance Auto Parts®,” “Advance Same DayTM,” “Autopart International®,” “Carquest®,” “CARQUEST Technical Institute®,” “DieHard®,” “DriverSide®,” “MotoLogic®,” “MotoShop®,” “speedDIAL®,” “TECH-NET Professional Auto Service®” and “Worldpac®” for use in connection with the automotive parts business. In addition, we own and have registered a number of trademarks for our private label brands. We believe that these trade names, service marks and trademarks are important to our merchandising strategy. We do not know of any infringing uses that would materially affect the use of these trade names and marks and we actively defend and enforce them.


Competition 


We operate in both the Professional and DIY markets of the automotive aftermarket industry. Our primary competitors are (i) both national and regional chains of automotive parts stores, including AutoZone, Inc., NAPA, O’Reilly Automotive, Inc., The Pep Boys-Manny, Moe & Jack and Auto Plus (formerly Uni-Select USA, Inc.), (ii) internet-based retailers, (iii) discount stores and mass merchandisers that carry automotive products, (iv) wholesalers or jobbers stores, including those associated with national parts distributors or associations, (v) independently owned stores and (vi) automobile dealers that supply parts. We believe that chains of automotive parts stores that, like us, have multiple locations in one or more markets, have competitive advantages in customer service, marketing, inventory selection, purchasing and distribution as compared to independent retailers and jobbers that are not part of a chain or associated with other retailers or jobbers. The principal methods of competition in our business include customer service, product offerings, availability, quality, price and store location.


Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters 


We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to the operation of our business, including those governing collection, transportation and recycling of automotive lead-acid batteries, used motor oil and other recyclable items and ownership and operation of real property. We sell products containing hazardous materials as part of our business. In addition, our customers may bring automotive lead-acid batteries, used motor oil or other recyclable items onto our properties. We currently provide collection and recycling programs for used lead-acid batteries, used oil and other recyclable items at a majority of our stores as a service to our customers. Pursuant to agreements with third-party vendors, lead-acid batteries, used motor oil and other recyclable items are collected by our Team Members, deposited onto pallets or into vendor supplied containers and stored by us until collected by the third-party vendors for recycling or proper disposal. The terms of our contracts with third party vendors require that they are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. Our third-party vendors who arrange for the removal, disposal, treatment or other handling of hazardous or toxic substances may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation at any affected disposal, treatment or other site affected by such substances. Based on our experience, we do not believe that there are any material environmental costs associated with the current business practice of accepting lead-acid batteries, used oil and other recyclable items as these costs are borne by the respective third-party vendors.


We own and lease real property. Under various environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. These laws often impose joint and several liability and may be imposed without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous or toxic substances. Other environmental laws and common law principles also could be used to impose liability for releases of hazardous materials into the environment or work place, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. From time to time, we receive notices from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and state environmental authorities indicating that there may be contamination on properties we own, lease or operate or may have owned, leased or operated in the past or on adjacent properties for which we may be responsible. Compliance with these laws and regulations and clean-up of released hazardous substances have not had a material impact on our operations to date.


We are also subject to numerous regulations including those related to labor and employment, discrimination, anti-bribery/anti-corruption, product quality and safety standards, data privacy and taxes. Compliance with any such laws and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our operations to date. For more information, see the following disclosures in “Part I. Item 1A, Risk Factors” elsewhere in this report.


5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Available Information 


Our Internet address is www.AdvanceAutoParts.com. Our website and the information contained therein or linked thereto are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for 2020. We make available free of charge through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
