Corporate Background

Our Company was founded in 1981 and is incorporated in Delaware. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol “ABMD.” 

Our principal executive offices are located at 22 Cherry Hill Drive, Danvers, Massachusetts 01923. Our telephone number is (978) 646-1400. We make available, free of charge on our website located at www.abiomed.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such reports with or furnishing such reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. We also use our website for the distribution of Company information. The information we post on our website may be deemed to be material information. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference into this report.  

Our Company

We are a leading provider of temporary mechanical circulatory support devices, and we offer a continuum of care to heart failure patients. We develop, manufacture and market proprietary products that are designed to enable the heart to rest, heal and recover by improving blood flow to the coronary arteries and end-organs and/or temporarily assisting the pumping function of the heart. Our products are used in the cardiac catheterization lab, or cath lab, by interventional cardiologists, the electrophysiology lab, the hybrid lab and in the heart surgery suite by cardiac surgeons. A physician may use our devices for patients who are in need of hemodynamic support prophylactically, urgently or emergently before, during or after angioplasty or heart surgery procedures. We believe that heart recovery is the optimal clinical outcome for a patient experiencing heart failure because it enhances the potential for the patient to go home with their own heart, facilitating the restoration of quality of life. In addition, we believe that, for the care of such patients, heart recovery is often the most cost-effective solution for the healthcare system.

Our strategic focus and the driver of our revenue growth is the market penetration of our family of Impella® heart pumps. The Impella device portfolio, which includes the Impella 2.5®, Impella CP®, Impella 5.0®, Impella LD®, Impella 5.5® and Impella RP® devices, has supported thousands of patients worldwide. We expect that most of our product and service revenue in the near future will be from our Impella devices. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella 5.5 and Impella RP devices have U.S Food and Drug Administration or FDA and CE Mark which allows us to market these devices in the U.S. and European Union. We expect to continue to make additional pre-market approval, or PMA supplement submissions for our Impella portfolio of devices for additional indications. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP and Impella 5.0 devices have regulatory approval from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW, in Japan.

COVID-19 Pandemic

For a discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—COVID-19 Pandemic.”

Our Products

Impella 2.5®

The Impella 2.5 device is a percutaneous micro heart pump with an integrated motor and sensors. The device is designed primarily for use by interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab who may require assistance to maintain circulation. The Impella 2.5 heart pump can be quickly inserted via the femoral artery to reach the left ventricle of the heart, where it is directly deployed to draw blood out of the ventricle and deliver it to the circulatory system. This function is intended to reduce ventricular work and provide blood flow to vital organs. The Impella 2.5 heart pump is introduced with normal interventional cardiology procedures and can pump up to 2.5 liters of blood per minute.

1


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In March 2015, we received a premarket approval, or PMA, from the FDA for the use of the Impella 2.5 device during elective and urgent high-risk percutaneous coronary intervention, or PCI, procedures. With this PMA, the Impella 2.5 device became the first FDA approved hemodynamic support device for use during high-risk PCI procedures. Under this PMA, the Impella 2.5 is a temporary (up to six hours) ventricular support device indicated for use during high-risk PCI performed in elective or urgent hemodynamically stable patients with severe coronary artery disease and depressed left ventricular ejection fraction, when a heart team, including a cardiac surgeon, has determined high-risk PCI is the appropriate therapeutic option. Use of the Impella 2.5 device in these patients may prevent hemodynamic instability that may occur during planned temporary coronary occlusions and may reduce periprocedural and post-procedural adverse events. The product labeling allows for the clinical decision by physicians to leave the Impella 2.5 device in place beyond the intended duration of up to six hours should unforeseen circumstances arise.

In April 2016, the FDA approved a PMA supplement for certain of our devices, including our Impella 2.5 device, to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. This PMA supplement covers a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction, or cardiac surgery, and allows for a longer duration of support. The Impella 2.5 catheter, in conjunction with the Automated Impella Controller, or Impella AIC, was approved as a temporary ventricular support device intended for short term use (≤ 4 days) and indicated for the treatment of ongoing cardiogenic shock that occurs immediately (< 48 hours) following acute myocardial infarction as a result of isolated left ventricular failure that is not responsive to optimal medical management and conventional treatment measures. The intent of the Impella system therapy is to reduce ventricular work and to provide the circulatory support necessary to allow heart recovery and early assessment of residual myocardial function.  Optimal medical management and convention treatment measures include volume loading and use of pressors and inotropes, with or without an intra-aortic balloon pump, or IABP.

In September 2016, we received Pharmaceuticals and Medical Device Agency, or PMDA, approval from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, or MHLW, for our Impella 2.5 heart pump to provide treatment of drug-resistant acute heart failure in Japan. In July 2017, we received approval from the MHLW for reimbursement of the Impella 2.5 heart pump.

In February 2018, we received two expanded PMAs from the FDA for certain of our Impella heart pumps. The first expanded PMA includes the Impella 2.5 heart pump for use on patients with cardiogenic shock associated with cardiomyopathy, including peripartum and postpartum cardiomyopathy.  The second expanded PMA includes the Impella 2.5 heart pump for use during elective and high-risk PCI procedures.  This expanded PMA confirms Impella support as appropriate in patients with severe coronary artery disease, complex anatomy and extensive comorbidities, with or without depressed ejection fraction.  

In September 2019, we announced the results of PROTECT III, the ongoing, prospective, single-arm FDA post-approval study for the PMA approval of Impella 2.5 and Impella CP in high-risk PCI. PROTECT III follows the PROTECT II randomized controlled trial that was completed in December 2010.  The findings of this interim analysis on 898 patients demonstrates a reduction in the primary endpoint of death, stroke, myocardial infarction and repeat procedures at 90 days with Impella-supported Protected PCI, compared to PROTECT II.

The Impella 2.5 device has CE Mark approval in the European Union for up to five days of use and is approved for use in up to 40 countries. The Impella 2.5 device also has Health Canada approval which allows us to market the device in Canada. 

Impella CP®

The Impella CP device provides blood flow of approximately one liter more per minute than the Impella 2.5 device and is primarily used by either interventional cardiologists to support patients in the cath lab or by cardiac surgeons in the heart surgery suite.

In April 2016, the FDA approved a PMA supplement for certain of our devices, including our Impella CP device, to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. This PMA supplement covers a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction, or cardiac surgery, and allows for a longer duration of support. The Impella CP catheter, in conjunction with the Automated Impella Controller, or AIC, was approved as a temporary ventricular support device intended for short term use (≤ 4 days) and indicated for the treatment of ongoing cardiogenic shock that occurs immediately (< 48 hours) following acute myocardial infarction as a result of isolated left ventricular failure that is not responsive to optimal medical management and conventional treatment measures. The intent of the Impella system therapy is to reduce ventricular work and to provide the circulatory support necessary to allow heart recovery and early assessment of residual myocardial function.  Optimal medical management and convention treatment measures include volume loading and use of pressors and inotropes, with or without an intra-aortic balloon pump, or IABP.

In December 2016, the FDA expanded a previously received PMA that granted approval for the use of the Impella CP device during elective and urgent high-risk PCI procedures in the U.S. With this indication, the Impella CP and the Impella 2.5 devices provide the only minimally invasive treatment options indicated for use during high-risk PCI procedures in the U.S. 

2


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In February 2018, we received two expanded PMAs from the FDA for certain of our Impella heart pumps. The first expanded PMA includes the Impella CP heart pump for use on patients with cardiogenic shock associated with cardiomyopathy, including peripartum and postpartum cardiomyopathy.  The second expanded PMA includes the Impella CP heart pump for use during elective and high-risk PCI procedures, and it confirms Impella support as appropriate in patients with severe coronary artery disease, complex anatomy and extensive comorbidities, with or without depressed ejection fraction. These PMAs allow the Impella CP to be used as a temporary (≤ 6 hours) ventricular support system indicated for use during high risk PCI procedures performed in elective or urgent hemodynamically stable patients with severe coronary artery disease and depressed left ventricular ejection fraction, when a heart team, including a cardiac surgeon, has determined that high-risk PCI is the appropriate therapeutic option. The product labeling allows for the clinical decision by physicians to leave the Impella CP device in place beyond the intended duration of up to six hours should unforeseen circumstances arise.

In April 2018, we received FDA approval for our Impella CP SmartAssist® platform. The Impella CP SmartAssist platform includes optical sensor technology on our Impella CP pump that allows for improved positioning, the use of algorithms that enable improved native heart assessment during the weaning process and cloud-based technology that enables secure, real-time, remote viewing of the Impella console for physicians and hospital staff from anywhere with internet connectivity. 

In March 2019, we received PMDA approval from MHLW for our Impella CP heart pump in Japan.  We began selling the Impella CP heart pump in Japan in fiscal 2020.

The Impella CP device has CE Mark approval in the European Union and other countries that require a CE Mark approval for up to five days of use.

Impella 5.0® and Impella LD®

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices are percutaneous micro heart pumps with integrated motors and sensors for use primarily in the heart surgery suite. These devices are designed to support patients who require higher levels of circulatory support as compared to the Impella 2.5 or Impella CP. 

The Impella 5.0 device can be inserted into the left ventricle via a femoral cut down or through the axillary artery. The Impella 5.0 device is passed into the ascending aorta, across the valve and into the left ventricle. The Impella LD device is similar to the Impella 5.0 device, but it is implanted directly into the ascending aorta through an aortic graft.  Both devices are normally used by cardiac surgeons in the surgery suite. The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices can pump up to five liters of blood per minute, potentially providing full circulatory support.

In April 2016, the FDA approved a PMA supplement for certain of our devices, including our Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices, to provide treatment for ongoing cardiogenic shock. This PMA supplement covers a set of indications related to the use of the Impella devices in patients suffering cardiogenic shock following acute myocardial infarction, or cardiac surgery, and allows for a longer duration of support. The Impella 5.0 and LD catheters, in conjunction with the Impella AIC, were approved as temporary ventricular support devices intended for short term use (≤ 6 days) and indicated for the treatment of ongoing cardiogenic shock that occurs immediately (< 48 hours) following acute myocardial infarction as a result of isolated left ventricular failure that is not responsive to optimal medical management and conventional treatment measures. The intent of the Impella system therapy is to reduce ventricular work and to provide the circulatory support necessary to allow heart recovery and early assessment of residual myocardial function.  

In September 2016, we received PMDA approval from the Japanese Ministry Health Labour and Welfare, MHLW, for our Impella 5.0 heart pump to provide treatment of drug-resistant acute heart failure in Japan. In July 2017, we received approval from the Japanese MHLW for reimbursement for the Impella 5.0 heart pump. Reimbursement in Japan for the Impella 5.0 is equivalent to our average Impella sales price in the U.S.

In May 2019, we received an expanded PMA from the FDA for labeling of the Impella 5.0 and Impella LD for the treatment of cardiogenic shock. The expansion extends the duration of support for each pump from six days to 14 days. This approval expands the previous indication for acute myocardial infarction, cardiogenic shock and post-cardiotomy shock, or PCCS, received in April 2016, and use of the Impella 5.0 and Impella LD heart pumps to provide treatment for heart failure associated with cardiomyopathy leading to cardiogenic shock received in February 2018.

The Impella 5.0 and Impella LD devices have CE Mark approval in the European Union for up to ten days’ duration and are approved for use in over 40 countries. 

3


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Impella 5.5®

The Impella 5.5 device is designed to be a percutaneous micro heart pump with integrated motors and sensors. Impella 5.5 delivers peak flows of greater than six liters per minute. The Impella 5.5 has a motor housing that is thinner and 45% shorter than the Impella 5.0 and it improves ease of pump insertion through the vasculature.

In September 2019, the Impella 5.5 device received a PMA from the FDA for safety and efficacy in the therapy of cardiogenic shock for up to 14 days in the U.S. The Impella 5.5 pump was introduced in the U.S. through a controlled rollout at hospitals with established heart recovery protocols beginning in fiscal 2020. Impella 5.5 received CE marking approval in Europe in April 2018 and was introduced in Europe through a similar controlled rollout.

The adoption of the Impella 5.5 device may lessen the utilization of Impella 5.0 and Impella LD at certain sites.

Impella RP®

The Impella RP is a percutaneous catheter-based axial flow pump that is designed to allow greater than four liters of blood flow per minute and is intended to provide the flow and pressure needed to compensate for right side heart failure. The Impella RP is the first percutaneous single access heart pump designed for right heart support to receive FDA approval. The Impella RP device is approved to provide support of the right heart during times of acute failure for certain patients who have received a left ventricle assist device or have suffered heart failure due to AMI, a failed heart transplant, or following open heart surgery.

In September 2017, we received a PMA from the FDA for the Impella RP heart pump. This latest approval follows the prior FDA humanitarian device exemption, or HDE, received in January 2015 and adds the Impella RP heart pump to our platform of devices with PMAs. The Impella RP heart pump is indicated for providing temporary right ventricular support for up to 14 days in patients with a body surface area ≥1.5 m² who develop acute right heart failure or decompensation following left ventricular assist device implantation, myocardial infarction, heart transplant or open-heart surgery. With this approval, the Impella RP heart pump is the only percutaneous temporary ventricular support device that is FDA-approved as safe and effective for right heart failure as stated in the indication.

The Impella RP device has CE Mark approval for commercial sale in the European Union and other countries that require a CE Mark approval for commercial sales.

Impella SmartAssist®

The Impella SmartAssist platform includes optical sensor technology for improved pump positioning and the use of algorithms that enable improved native heart assessment during the weaning process.  The Impella SmartAssist platform currently developed for the Impella CP SmartAssist and Impella 5.5 SmartAssist heart pumps. The Impella SmartAssist platform is also approved under CE Mark in the European Union and other countries that require a CE Mark approval.  

Impella Connect®

Impella Connect is a cloud-based technology that enables secure, cloud-based, remote viewing of the Automated Impella Controller, or AIC, for physicians and hospital staff from anywhere with internet connectivity. The Impella Connect is intended to provide enhanced monitoring capability, reduce setup time and improve ease of use for physicians. We began a controlled roll-out of Impella Connect at certain hospital sites during fiscal 2020 and we plan to transition the majority of our customers in fiscal 2021.

Our Product Pipeline

Impella ECP™

The Impella ECP pump is designed for blood flow of greater than three liters per minute. It is intended to be delivered on a standard sized catheter and will include an expandable inflow in the left ventricle. We expect to conduct a first-in-human trial in fiscal year 2021, subject to our ability to do so under the circumstances of the ongoing or any future outbreak of the novel coronavirus, or COVID-19. The Impella ECP pump is still in development and has not been approved for commercial use or sale.

4


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Impella XR Sheath™

The Impella XR Sheath, is a sheath designed to expand and recoil to all for ease of use upon insertion of an Impella heart pump and minimize the size of the arteriotomy. The Impella XR Sheath device is still in development and has not been approved for commercial use or sale. We expect to submit an application for FDA 510(k) clearance in fiscal 2021, subject to our ability to do so under the circumstances of the ongoing or any future outbreak of the novel coronavirus, or COVID-19. 

Impella BTR™

The Impella BTR device is designed to be a percutaneous micro heart pump with integrated motors and sensors. The Impella BTR device is designed to be smaller, provide up to one year of hemodynamic support and is expected to allow for greater than five liters of blood flow per minute.  The Impella BTR device also includes a wearable driver designed for hospital discharge.  The Impella BTR pump is still in development and has not been approved for commercial use or sale. 

Our Markets 

According to the Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2020 Update Report from the American Heart Association, or AHA, coronary heart disease, or CHD, is the number one cause of death in the U.S. According to the report, 47% of women and 36% of men over the age of 45 will die within five years of their first heart attack, and CHD causes approximately one of every seven deaths in the U.S. CHD is a condition of the coronary arteries that causes reduced blood flow and insufficient oxygen delivery to the affected portion of the heart. CHD leads to acute myocardial infarction, or AMI, commonly known as a heart attack, which may lead to heart failure, a condition in which the heart is unable to pump enough blood to the body’s major organs. 

A broad spectrum of therapies exists for the treatment of patients in early stages of CHD. Angioplasty procedures and stents are commonly used in the cath lab to restore and increase blood flow to the heart. These treatments are often successful in slowing the progression of heart disease, extending life, and/or improving the quality of life for some period of time. Patients presenting with acute cardiac injuries potentially have recoverable hearts. Treatment for these patients in pre-shock in the cath lab is primarily focused on hemodynamic stabilization. Acute heart failure patients in profound shock typically require treatment in the surgery suite. These are patients suffering from cardiogenic shock after a heart attack, post-cardiotomy cardiogenic shock or myocarditis complicated with cardiogenic shock. Chronic heart failure patients have hearts that are unlikely to be recoverable due to left and/or right-side heart failure and their conditions cause their hearts to fail over time. Limited therapies exist today for patients with severe, end-stage, or chronic heart failure. 

In more severe cases of heart failure, patients are sent directly to the surgery suite for coronary bypass or valve replacement surgery. The most severe acute heart failure patients are in profound cardiogenic shock, including those suffering from myocarditis (a viral attack of the heart), or from those suffering from an impaired ability of the heart to pump blood after a heart attack or heart surgery. These patients typically require treatments involving the use of mechanical circulatory support devices that provide increased blood flow and reduce the stress on the heart. Many less severe patients in the cath lab could also benefit from circulatory support devices or other clinical treatment, which could potentially prevent them from entering into profound shock. 

Percutaneous assist devices, like the Impella portfolio of devices, are mechanical devices that help the failing heart pump blood or take over the pumping function of the failing heart. Percutaneous assist devices allow for less invasive placement and removal and can be done through a small puncture in the leg in the cath lab, electrophysiology lab, or operating room. We believe heart recovery is a preferred clinical outcome for patients, since it generally lowers the overall relative cost to the healthcare system versus alternative therapies and treatment paths that may require multiple surgeries, lengthy or repeated hospital stays, chronic therapeutic and immunosuppressant drugs and other related healthcare costs. 

Research and Product Development 

Since our founding in 1981, we have gained substantial expertise in circulatory support through the development of many product platforms to support heart patients. This includes our Impella platform that we currently market and other technologies that we have supported, and sold in the past, which we do not actively market currently. Our current strategy is to develop a complete portfolio of products across the continuum of care in heart recovery, primarily focused in the area of circulatory care. We intend to continue to use this experience to develop additional circulatory support products as well as making enhancements to our existing products, with an emphasis on improving access and closure with our devices. In addition, we have a number of new products at various stages of development, some of which integrate the Impella technology platform including the Impella ECP, Impella XR Sheath and Impella BTR devices. 

5


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

We expended $98.8 million, $93.5 million and $75.3 million on research and development in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Our research and development expenditures include costs related to clinical trials and studies for our Impella devices. 

We are pursuing additional randomized control trials in high-risk PCI and cardiogenic shock, such as the STEMI DTU Study to complement our clinical evidence and best practices to optimize patient outcomes. 

STEMI DTU™ Study

In November 2018, we announced the results of our FDA-approved prospective multi-center feasibility study, “STEMI Door to Unloading with Impella CP system in acute myocardial infarction” (STEMI DTU). The trial focused on the feasibility and safety of unloading the left ventricle using the Impella CP heart pump prior to primary PCI in patients presenting with ST segment elevation myocardial infarction, or STEMI, without cardiogenic shock, with the hypothesis that this will potentially reduce infarct size. The study, which received FDA investigational device approval to proceed in October 2016, enrolled 50 patients at 10 sites. The hypothesis of this novel approach to treating STEMI patients, based on extensive mechanistic research, is that unloading the left ventricle prior to PCI reduces myocardial work load and oxygen demand and also initiates a cardio-protective effect at the myocardial cell level, which may alleviate myocardial damage caused by reperfusion injury at the time of revascularization. The intent of this study was to help refine the protocol and lay the groundwork for a future pivotal study with more sites and patients and will be designed for statistical significance.

In April 2019, the FDA approved the initiation of the STEMI DTU pivotal randomized controlled trial. The prospective, multi-center, two-arm trial plans to enroll 668 patients undergoing treatment for a STEMI heart attack at up to 60 sites. Half the patients will be randomized to receive delayed reperfusion after 30 minutes of left ventricular unloading with the Impella CP. The other half will receive immediate reperfusion, the current standard of care. The STEMI DTU trial will test the hypothesis that unloading the left ventricle for 30 minutes prior to reperfusion will reduce myocardial damage from a heart attack and lead to a reduction in future heart failure related events. The trial allows for an adaptive design, which permits adjustments to the study sample size after an interim analysis. We began the trial in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. However, due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the challenges presented to medical providers, we have temporarily paused the trial and plan to restart when physicians and hospitals have the ability to enroll patients and record clinical metrics. Once we resume, we estimate that it will take three to four years to complete enrollment.

Sales, Clinical Support, Marketing and Field Service 

Our clinical support personnel consist primarily of registered nurses and other personnel with considerable experience in either the surgery suite or the cath lab, and they play a critical role in training and educating physicians in the use of our products. In recent years, we have significantly increased the number of our direct sales and clinical support personnel in the U.S, Germany and Japan.

Manufacturing 

We manufacture our products in Danvers, Massachusetts and Aachen, Germany. Our Aachen facility performs final assembly and manufactures most of our disposable Impella devices, including the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella 5.5,  Impella LD and Impella RP. Our Danvers facility also manufactures and performs final assembly for the Impella CP device, Impella 5.5, and certain Impella subsystems and accessories, including our Impella AIC, our console that powers our Impella devices. In addition, we rely on third-party suppliers to provide us with components used in our existing products and products under development. For example, we outsource some of the manufacturing for components and circuit cards within our consoles. 

We have expanded our manufacturing capacity in both our Aachen and Danvers facilities to support demand for our Impella devices. We believe our existing manufacturing facilities provide sufficient physical capacity to meet anticipated demand for at least the next twelve months. Our U.S. and German manufacturing facilities are certified as being in compliance with standards established by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO, and operate under the FDA’s good manufacturing practice requirements for medical devices set forth in the Quality System Regulation, or QSR. 

Intellectual Property 

We have developed significant know-how and proprietary technology, upon which our business depends. To protect our know-how and proprietary technology, we rely on trade secret laws, trademarks, patents, copyrights, and confidentiality agreements and other contracts. However, these methods afford only limited protection. Others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information or technology, gain access to our trade secrets or disclose or use such secrets or technology without our approval. 

6


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

A substantial portion of our intellectual property rights relating to the Impella devices and other products under development, such as the Impella ECP, Impella XR Sheath and Impella BTR devices, are in the form of trade secrets and patents. We protect our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge in part through confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and other parties. We cannot assure you that our trade secrets will not become known to or be independently developed by our competitors. 

We own or have rights to numerous U.S. and foreign patents. Patents filed both in the U.S. and Europe generally have a life of 20 years from the filing date. Our U.S. and foreign patents have expiration dates ranging from 2020 to 2036 and beyond as we continue to innovate and file for new patent applications. We also own or have rights to certain pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. We believe patents will issue pursuant to such applications, but cannot guarantee it. Moreover, neither the timing of any issuance, the scope of protection, nor the actual issue date of these pending applications can be forecasted with precision. Where we have licensed patent rights from third parties, we could be required to pay royalties. 

Our patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Our pending or future patent applications may not be issued. Others may hold or obtain patents that cover aspects or uses of our innovations. The patents of others may render our patents obsolete, limit our ability to patent or practice our innovations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business. Because foreign patents may afford less protection than U.S. patents, our foreign patent estate may not adequately protect our technology. 

The medical device industry is characterized by a large number of patents and by frequent and consequential intellectual property litigation. Our products and technologies could infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties. If third parties successfully assert infringement or other claims against us, we may not be able to sell our products or we may have to pay significant damages and ongoing royalties. In addition, patent or intellectual property disputes or litigation may be costly, result in product development delays, or divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. If any such disputes or litigation arise, we may seek to enter into a royalty or licensing arrangement. However, such an arrangement may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. We may decide, in the alternative, to litigate the claims or seek to design around the patented or otherwise protected proprietary technology, which may also be costly and time consuming. 

The U.S. government may obtain certain rights to use or disclose technical data developed under government contracts that supported the development of some of our products. We retain the right to obtain patents on any inventions developed under those contracts, provided we follow prescribed procedures and are subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to the U.S. government. 

Competition

Competition among providers of treatments for the failing heart is intense and subject to rapid technological change and evolving industry requirements and standards. We compete with many companies that have greater financial, product development, sales and marketing resources and experience than we do. Furthermore, new product development and technological change characterize the areas in which we compete. Our present or future products could be rendered obsolete or uneconomical as a result of technological advances by one or more of our present or future competitors or by other therapies, including drug therapies. We must continue to develop and commercialize new products and technologies to remain competitive in the cardiovascular medical technology industry. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of clinical superiority supported by extensive data, and innovative features that enhance patient benefit, product performance, ease of use and reliability. Customer and clinical support, and data that demonstrate both improvement in a patient's quality of life and a product's cost-effectiveness are additional aspects of competition.

The cardiovascular segment of the medical technology industry is dynamic and subject to significant change due to cost-of-care considerations, regulatory reform, industry and customer consolidation and evolving patient needs. The ability to provide products and technologies that demonstrate value and improve clinical outcomes is becoming increasingly important for medical technology manufacturers.

We are aware of other cardiac assist device research efforts in the U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. In addition, there are a number of companies, including Abbott Laboratories, Medtronic, Edwards Lifesciences, Boston Scientific, LivaNova, Terumo Heart, Teleflex, Getinge (Maquet Cardiovascular) and several early-stage companies, that are developing heart assist products, including implantable left ventricular assist devices and miniaturized rotary ventricular assist devices that directly and indirectly compete with our products.

7


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Third-Party Reimbursement 

Our products and services are generally purchased by hospitals that rely on third-party payers to cover and reimburse the costs of related patient care. In the U.S., as well as in many foreign countries, government-funded or private insurance programs pay the cost of a significant portion of a patient’s medical expenses. No uniform policy of coverage or reimbursement for medical technology exists among all these payers. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payer to payer and by jurisdiction. 

Third-party payers may include government healthcare programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, private insurers or managed care organizations. The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, is responsible for administering the Medicare program in the U.S. and, along with its contractors, establishes coverage and reimbursement policies for the Medicare program. Medicare’s coverage and reimbursement policies are particularly significant to our business because a large percentage of the population for which our products are intended includes individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, private payers often follow the coverage and reimbursement policies of Medicare. We cannot assure that government or private third-party payers will continue to cover and reimburse the procedures using our products in whole or in part in the future or that payment rates for reimbursement will be adequate. If governmental and private payers’ policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business.

Medicare payment may be made, in appropriate cases, for procedures performed in the in-patient hospital setting using our technology. Medicare generally reimburses hospitals in which the procedures are performed based upon prospectively determined amounts. For hospital in-patient stays, the prospective payment generally is determined by the patient’s condition and other patient data and procedures performed during the in-patient stay, using a classification system known as International Classification of Diseases, or ICD, and medical severity diagnosis-related groups, or MS DRGs. Prospective rates are adjusted for, among other things, regional differences, co-morbidity and complications. Hospitals performing in-patient procedures using our devices generally do not receive separate Medicare reimbursement for the specific costs of purchasing or implanting our products. Rather, reimbursement for these costs is bundled with the MS DRG-based payments made to hospitals for the procedures during which our devices are implanted, removed, or replaced. Because prospective payments are based on predetermined rates and may be less than a hospital’s actual costs in furnishing care, hospitals have incentives to lower their in-patient operating costs by utilizing products, devices and supplies that will reduce the length of in-patient stays, decrease labor or otherwise lower their costs. Thus, hospitals may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products.

Coverage and reimbursement for procedures to implant, remove or replace our products are generally established in the U.S. market. For instance, Medicare covers the use of LVADs when used for support of blood circulation post-cardiotomy, as a temporary life-support system until a human heart becomes available for transplant, or as destination therapy for patients who require permanent mechanical cardiac support, when the use is consistent with FDA approval and FDA-approved labeling instructions, as applicable. Coverage and reimbursement for procedures to implant the Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella 5.5 and Impella RP devices are also established for in-hospital use by Medicare including ICD-10 for procedures and MS DRG coding. Actual coverage and payment may vary by local Medicare fiscal intermediary or third-party insurer. Our Impella devices are also covered by commercial and/or Medicare plans of many third-party insurers including Aetna, Humana, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield, and United Healthcare. 

In August 2019, the CMS released final Medicare payment levels for inpatient hospital discharges for fiscal year 2020 (October 1, 2019 through September 30, 2020). The Final Rule for the IPPS update includes ICD-10 coding and maintained assignment of percutaneous Impella implantation to MS-DRG 215 for Other Heart Assist System Implant, bi-ventricular Impella support in MS-DRG, and Impella hospital transfer and support in MS-DRG 268 for the receiving hospital. CMS eliminated the proposed reduction of 27% and concluded there was no reduction versus the prior year for MS-DRG 215. The Final Rule was effective for the 12 months from and after October 1, 2019 for all Medicare hospital inpatient discharges.

8


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In May 2020, the CMS released a draft of hospital payment levels proposed for patient discharges after October 1, 2020. The May 2020 proposed rule, or the Proposed Rule, for the IPPS update includes ICD-10 coding and confirms assignment of percutaneous Impella implantation to MS-DRG 215 for Other Heart Assist System Implant. The Proposed Rule also maintained bi-ventricular Impella (MS-DRG 1), ECPella (MS-DRG 3), and Impella hospital transfer / support (MS-DRG 268) for the receiving hospital. In addition, CMS proposed three payment rate options for MS-DRG 215 including (1) fiscal year 2020 rate (hold harmless), (2) an average of the proposed rate and FY2020 rate or (3) adjust and audit reimbursement rate from FY2020 based on hospital charges, length of stay, patient transfer, patient comorbidities and hospital efficiencies over the prior year. Hospitals that incorporate best practices often achieve better patient outcomes at a lower cost of care. For the sickest patients who utilize extensive resources, hospitals are eligible to receive additional outlier payments, which may collectively increase reimbursement in future years. The AHA and CMS have established a system of care around the utilization of percutaneous heart pumps. The history and creation of this dedicated payment system with Impella implant/explant, bi-ventricular, ECPella and transfer reimbursement allows some of the most critically ill patients in the system to have the potential to survive and improve/achieve native heart recovery. The MS-DRG 215 proposed rate is lower than that of the previous year based on the CMS process to evaluate hospital charges, length of stay, patient comorbidities, taking into account hospital efficiencies over the prior year. The Proposed Rule for the IPPS is open for public comment until July 10, 2020. The final rulemaking may differ substantially from this proposal and will take effect for the year beginning October 1, 2020.

In addition to payments to hospitals for procedures using our technology, Medicare makes separate payments to physicians for their professional services when they perform surgeries to implant, remove, replace or repair our devices or when they perform percutaneous insertion and removal of Impella devices. Physicians generally bill for such services using a coding system known as Current Procedural Terminology, or CPT, codes. Physician services performed in connection with the implantation, removal or repositioning of our approved products are billed using a variety of CPT codes. Generally, Medicare payment levels for physician services are based on the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule and are revised annually by CMS. Physicians may choose not to use our products if reimbursement amounts do not justify the additional costs expended when employing our products.

In general, third-party reimbursement programs in the U.S. and abroad, whether government-funded or commercially insured, are developing a variety of increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs, including prospective reimbursement and capitation programs, group purchasing, reducing benefit coverage, requiring second opinions prior to major surgery, negotiating reductions to charges on patient bills, promoting healthier lifestyle initiatives and exploring more cost-effective methods of delivering healthcare. These types of cost containment programs, as well as legislative or regulatory changes to reimbursement policies, could limit the amount which healthcare providers may be willing to pay for our medical devices. 

Government Regulation and Other Matters

Our products and facilities are subject to regulation by numerous government agencies, including the FDA, European Community Notified Bodies, and the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency, to confirm compliance with the various laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, and distribution of our products. We are also governed by federal, state, local, and international laws of general applicability, such as those regulating employee health and safety, and the protection of the environment. Overall, the amount and scope of domestic and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our business has increased over time.

United States Regulation

In the U.S., the FDA has responsibility for regulating medical devices under the authority of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA. The FDA regulates design, development, testing, clinical studies, manufacturing, labeling, distribution, import, export, sale promotion, and record keeping for medical devices, and reporting of adverse events, recalls, or other field actions by manufacturers and users to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Many of the devices that we develop, manufacture and market are in a category for which the FDA has implemented stringent clinical investigation and pre-market clearance or approval requirements. The process of obtaining FDA clearance or approval to market a product is resource intensive, lengthy, and costly. FDA review may involve delays that adversely affect the marketing and sale of our products. Some our products are pending regulatory clearance or approval to begin commercial sales in various markets. Ultimately, the FDA may not authorize the commercial release of a medical device if it determines the device is not safe and effective or does not meet other standards for clearance or approval. Additionally, even if a product is cleared or approved, the FDA may impose restrictions requiring postmarket testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effects of these products once commercialized. 

9


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

The FDA has the authority to halt the distribution of certain medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order the repair, replacement, or refund of the costs of such devices, or preclude the importation of devices that are or appear to be violative. The FDA also conducts inspections to determine compliance with the QSR concerning the manufacturing and design of devices and medical device reporting regulations, recall regulations, clinical testing regulations, and other requirements. The FDA may withdraw product clearances or approvals due to failure to comply with regulatory standards, or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial approval, and require notification of health professionals and others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of harm to the public health. Additionally, the failure to comply with FDA or comparable regulatory standards or the discovery of previously unknown product problems could result in fines, delays, or suspensions of regulatory clearances or approvals, seizures, injunctions, recalls, refunds, civil money penalties, or criminal prosecution. Our compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review. Moreover, the FDA and several other U.S. agencies administer controls over the export of medical devices from the U.S. and the import of devices into the U.S., which could also subject us to sanctions for noncompliance.

Premarket Regulation 

The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the statutory framework described in the FFDCA. Our Impella products are categorized as Class III devices. Class III devices are typically life-sustaining, life-supporting or implantable devices, or new devices that have not been found to be substantially equivalent to legally marketed devices. Class III devices must generally receive PMA approval from the FDA before they can be marketed. 

The PMA approval pathway requires that the applicant demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction, based on valid scientific evidence, that there is a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. During the PMA process, the FDA examines detailed data to assess the safety and effectiveness of the device. This information includes design, development, manufacture, labeling, advertising, preclinical testing and clinical study data. Prior to approving a PMA, the FDA may conduct an inspection of the manufacturing facilities and the clinical sites where supporting studies were conducted. The facility inspection evaluates our compliance with QSR. An inspection of clinical sites evaluates compliance with good clinical practice standards, including, for studies conducted under an investigational device exemption, or IDE, that the studies meet the requirements of FDA’s IDE regulations. Typically, the FDA will convene an advisory panel meeting to review the data presented in the PMA. The panel’s recommendation is given substantial weight but is not binding on the FDA. Under a set of performance measures that the FDA has committed to achieving in return for the receipt of user fees from manufacturers, FDA attempts to review all PMAs not requiring an advisory panel meeting within 180 “FDA days” and review of a PMA application that does require an advisory panel meeting within 320 “FDA days.” The term “FDA days” excludes the time the applicant spends responding to FDA requests for additional information.  While the FDA has approved PMA applications within the allotted time period, reviews can occur over a significantly longer period. 

Upon completion of its review, the FDA will either approve or deny the PMA. If the FDA’s evaluation is favorable, the PMA is approved and the device may be marketed in the U.S. The FDA may approve a PMA with post-approval conditions such as postmarket collection of clinical data. Failure to comply with the conditions of approval can result in material adverse enforcement action, including the loss or withdrawal of the PMA approval. A PMA approval may include significant limitations on the indicated uses for which a device may be marketed. The FDA interprets the FFDCA as prohibiting the promotion of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. After approval of a PMA, a new PMA or PMA supplement is required in the event of a significant modification to the device, the device labeling, or the manufacturing process.  The FDA can initiate proceedings to withdraw a PMA approval for failure to comply with regulatory requirements or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial marketing.

See “Item 1. Business – Our Products” for additional information regarding regulatory approvals on our Impella devices. We expect to make additional PMA supplement submissions for additional indications for use for our Impella devices in the future.

When clinical trials of a device are required in order to obtain FDA approval, the sponsor of the trial is generally required to file an IDE application before commencing the trials. The FDA reviews and must approve an IDE before a clinical study may begin in the U.S. In addition, the clinical study must be approved by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, at each clinical site. The FDA, the IRB, or we may suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including if information emerges suggesting that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical studies of investigational devices must be conducted in compliance with FDA requirements. Following the completion of a study, the data from the study must be collected, analyzed and presented in an appropriate submission to the FDA, either as a report submitted to the IDE file or in a marketing application such as a PMA. 

10


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In addition, certain medical devices can be approved by the FDA in the U.S. under an HDE rather than a PMA. In order for a device to be eligible for an HDE, there must be a qualifying target patient population of less than 8,000 patients per year for which there is no other comparable device available to treat the condition. The FDA must agree that a device meets these criteria before it can be approved under an HDE. FDA approval of an HDE also requires demonstration that the device is safe for its intended application, that it is potentially effective, and that the probable benefits outweigh the associated risks. If another device receives approval through the PMA process that addresses the same patient population as the HDE device, the HDE device may need to be withdrawn from the U.S. market. An approved HDE authorizes sales of the device to any hospital after review and approval by the hospital’s IRB. Proposed modifications to approved HDE devices, like modifications to approved PMA devices, require FDA approval through a new HDE application or an HDE supplement. 

Postmarket Regulation 

The medical devices that we manufacture and distribute pursuant to regulatory clearances or approvals by the FDA and other countries’ regulatory authorities are subject to continuing regulation by those agencies. The FDA reviews design, manufacturing, and distribution practices, labeling and record keeping, and manufacturers’ required reports of adverse experience and other information to identify potential problems with marketed medical devices. Among other FDA requirements, we must comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations for medical devices, known as the QSR. These regulations govern the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, testing, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all finished medical devices intended for human use. We must also comply with Medical Device Reporting, or MDR requirements, which require us to report to the FDA any incident in any of our products that may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, including medical intervention to prevent a death or serious injury, or in which any of our products malfunctioned and, if such malfunction were to recur, would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury. Labeling, advertising, and promotional activities are subject to scrutiny by the FDA and, in certain circumstances, by the Federal Trade Commission. The FDA’s enforcement policy prohibits the marketing of approved medical devices for unapproved uses. We are subject to routine inspection by the FDA for compliance with the QSR and MDR requirements, as well as other applicable regulations. If the FDA were to conclude that we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, or that any of our medical devices are ineffective or pose an unreasonable health risk, the FDA could ban such medical devices, detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices, order a recall, repair, replacement, or refund of such devices, and require us to notify health professionals and others that the devices present unreasonable risks of harm to the public health. The FDA may also seek a judicial injunction enjoining certain violations of the FFDCA and imposing operating restrictions and assess civil or criminal fines and penalties against our officers, employees, or us. The FDA may also recommend criminal prosecution to the U.S. Department of Justice. Conduct giving rise to civil or criminal penalties may also form the basis for private civil litigation by third-party payers or other persons allegedly harmed by our conduct. Regulatory authorities outside the U.S. enforce similar laws and regulations within their respective jurisdictions.

The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce regulations prohibiting promotion of off-label uses and the promotion of products for which marketing clearance has not been obtained. If the FDA or another regulatory agency determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. Although our policy is to refrain from statements that could be considered off-label promotion of our products, the FDA or another regulatory agency could disagree and conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. 

The FDA can require postmarket surveillance, or PMS, for significant risk devices, such as our medical devices, that require ongoing collection, analysis, and periodic submission to the FDA of clinical data during commercialization over a period of up to several years. The PMS data collection requirements are often burdensome and expensive. The failure to comply with the FDA’s regulations can result in enforcement action, including seizure of products, injunction, prosecution, civil fines and penalties, recall and/or suspension of FDA approval. 

The FDA, in cooperation with U.S. Customs and Border Protection, or CBP, administers controls over the import and export of medical devices into and out of the U.S. International sales of our medical devices that have not received FDA approval are therefore subject to FDA export requirements. The CBP imposes its own regulatory requirements on the import of medical devices, including inspection and possible sanctions for noncompliance. 

11


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Other Regulations

We are subject to additional laws and regulations that govern our business operations, products, and technologies, including:

 
 •
 federal, state, and foreign anti-kickback laws and regulations, which generally prohibit payments and other financial benefits to physicians or other purchasers of medical products as an inducement to purchase a product;
 

 
 •
 the Stark law, which prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to a provider that bills this program for the provision of certain designated health services if the physician (or a member of the physician's immediate family) has a financial relationship with that provider, subject to numerous specific exemptions;
 

 
 •
 federal and state laws and regulations that protect the confidentiality and security of certain patient health information, including patient records, and restrict the use and disclosure of such information, in particular, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA;
 

 
 •
 domestic and foreign laws and regulations that protect personal data, such as the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, that require, among other things, consent to process personal data of individuals, disclosures to individuals regarding the processing of personal data, the security and confidentiality of personal data and notification in the event of data breaches;
 

 
 •
 the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, or PPSA, which requires public disclosure of the financial relationships of U.S. physicians and teaching hospitals with applicable manufacturers, including medical device, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies;
 

 
 •
 the False Claims Act, or FCA, which prohibits the submission of false or otherwise improper claims for payment to a federally funded health care program, and health care fraud statutes that prohibit false statements and improper claims to any third-party payer, and may be enforced through whistleblower or ‘qui tam’ lawsuits filed by private individuals; and
 

 
 •
 the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, or FCPA, which can be used to prosecute companies in the U.S. for arrangements with foreign government officials or other parties outside the U.S.
 

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in criminal liability, significant fines or penalties, negative publicity, and material costs and expenses associated with investigation enforcement activities, and individual settlement agreements that impose a government monitor for a period of several years.

We are also subject to various local, state, federal, and international laws and regulations relating to such matters as safe working conditions, laboratory and manufacturing practices and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances used in connection with our research and development and manufacturing activities. Specifically, the manufacture of our biomaterials is subject to compliance with federal environmental regulations and by various state and local agencies. We believe we have been, and we are in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations (including environmental laws and regulations). We currently have no liabilities under such requirements that could reasonably be expected to materially harm our business, results of operations or financial condition.

International Regulation    

Internationally, the approval and regulation of medical devices is subject to a variety of laws and regulation. In Europe, our products are subject to extensive regulatory requirements. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0, Impella LD, Impella 5.5, Impella RP, and Impella AIC are all approved under CE Mark and are available for sale in the European Union and other markets that recognize CE Mark approval. The European Union requires that medical devices may only be placed on the market if they do not compromise safety and health when properly installed, maintained, and used in accordance with their intended purpose. National laws conforming to the European Union's legislation regulate our products under the medical devices regulatory system. Although the more variable national requirements under which medical devices were formerly regulated have been substantially replaced by the European Union Medical Devices Directive, individual nations can still impose unique requirements that may require supplemental submissions. The European Union medical device laws require manufacturers to declare that their products conform to the essential regulatory requirements after which the products may be placed on the market bearing the CE Mark. Manufacturers' quality systems for products in all but the lowest risk classification are also subject to certification and audit by an independent notified body. In Europe, particular emphasis is being placed on more sophisticated and faster procedures for the reporting of adverse events to the competent authorities. 

12


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

In May 2017, the European Union implemented a new regulatory requirement for medical devices under the Medical Device Regulation. The Medical Device Regulation becomes fully effective in fiscal 2021 and will bring significant new requirements for many medical devices, including enhanced requirements for clinical evidence and documentation, increased focus on device identification and traceability, new definitions and registration of economic operators throughout the distribution chain, and additional post market surveillance and vigilance. Compliance with the Medical Device Regulation will require re-certification of many of our products to the enhanced standards.

In Japan, pre-market approval and clinical studies are required as is governmental pricing approval for medical devices. Our Impella 2.5, Impella CP, Impella 5.0 and Impella AIC have regulatory approval and are available for sale in Japan. Clinical studies are subject to a stringent “Good Clinical Practices” standard. Approval time frames from the Japanese MHLW vary from simple notifications to review periods of one or more years, depending on the complexity and risk level of the device. In addition, importation of medical devices into Japan is subject to the “Good Import Practices” regulations. As with any highly regulated market, significant changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect future sales. 

In many of the other foreign countries in which we market our products, we may be subject to regulations affecting, among other things:

 
 •
 product standards and specifications;
 

 
 •
 packaging requirements;
 

 
 •
 labeling requirements;
 

 
 •
 marketing restrictions;
 

 
 •
 product collection and disposal requirements;
 

 
 •
 quality system requirements;
 

 
 •
 import restrictions;
 

 
 •
 tariffs;
 

 
 •
 customs and duties; and 
 

 
 •
 tax requirements.
 

 

Many of the regulations applicable to our devices and products in these countries are similar to those of the FDA. In some countries, the level of government regulation of medical devices is increasing, which can lengthen time to market and increase registration and approval costs. In many countries, the national health or social security organizations require our products to be qualified before they can be marketed and considered eligible for reimbursement.

Health Care Initiatives

 

Government and private sector initiatives to limit the growth of health care costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness reviews, technology assessments, and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do business, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, and Asia. As a result of these changes, the marketplace has placed increased emphasis on the delivery of more cost-effective medical therapies. For example, government programs, private health care insurance, and managed-care plans have attempted to control costs by restricting coverage and limiting the level of reimbursement for procedures or treatments, and some third-party payers require their pre-approval before new or innovative devices or therapies are utilized by patients. These various initiatives have created increased price sensitivity over medical products generally and may impact demand for our products and technologies.

 

The delivery of our products is subject to regulation by the department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. and comparable state and foreign agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of health care items and services. Foreign governments also impose regulations in connection with their health care reimbursement programs and the delivery of health care items and services. Reimbursement schedules regulate the amount the U.S. government will reimburse hospitals and doctors for the inpatient care of persons covered by Medicare. CMS may also review whether and/or under what circumstances a procedure or technology is reimbursable for Medicare beneficiaries. Changes in current reimbursement levels could have an adverse effect on market demand and our pricing flexibility.

 

13


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

Health care cost containment efforts have also prompted domestic hospitals and other customers of medical device manufacturers to consolidate into larger purchasing groups to enhance purchasing power and this trend is expected to continue. The medical device industry has also experienced some consolidation, partly in order to offer a broader range of products to large purchasers. As a result, transactions with customers are larger, more complex, and could likely involve more long-term contracts than in the past. These larger customers, due to their enhanced purchasing power, may attempt to increase pressure on product pricing.

 

Health Care Reform

In March 2010, the U.S. Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or together, the Affordable Care Act, or ACA. The law includes provisions that, among other things, reduce or limit Medicare reimbursement, and impose increased taxes.  In December 2015, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016 was signed into law which included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax such that medical device sales in 2016 and 2017 were exempt from the medical device excise tax. In January 2018, this medical device excise tax moratorium was further extended until January 1, 2020. The Further Consolidated Appropriations Act was signed into law on December 20, 2019, and fully repealed the medical device excise tax previously imposed. As a result of the repeal, sales of taxable medical devices after December 31, 2015, are not subject to the medical device excise tax. With the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in December 2017, the ACA’s former individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage has been eliminated.

 

Initiatives to repeal the ACA, in whole or in part, to delay implementation or funding, and to offer amendments or supplements to modify its provisions have been persistent and have increased as a result of the 2016 election. Efforts to pass comprehensive repeal legislation have failed, but, in light of the stated policies of the U.S executive administration and actions of certain members of the U.S. Congress, the outlook for ACA-compliant insurance plans is still uncertain. The current U.S. executive administration has encouraged certain alternative health plans that are not required to comply with ACA coverage standards, including short-term and association health plans. If these plans become more widespread, premiums for the more comprehensive plans required by the ACA may increase, which could result in a decrease in the number of Americans with comprehensive health care insurance. While any legislative and regulatory changes will likely take time to develop and may or may not have an impact on the regulatory regime to which we are subject, we cannot predict the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare reform legislation or the impact of potential legislation on us.

Seasonality 

Our quarterly net sales are influenced by many factors, including new product introductions, acquisitions, regulatory approvals, patient and physician holiday schedules, and other factors. Net sales in the first half of our fiscal year were 49%, 47%, and 45% of total fiscal year net sales for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Historically, our revenues have generally been lower in the first half of our fiscal year due to the seasonality of the U.S., European and Japanese markets, where summer vacation schedules normally result in fewer medical procedures for our products. 

Employees 

As of March 31, 2020, we had 1,536 full-time employees, including: 

 
 •
 275 in product engineering, research and development, clinical development and regulatory; 
 

 
 •
 643 in sales, clinical support, marketing, field service and related support; 518 of whom are in the U.S. and Canada, 70 of whom are in Europe and 55 of whom are in Asia.
 

 
 •
 464 in manufacturing; and 
 

 
 •
 154 in general and administration. 
 

We routinely enter into contractual agreements with our employees, which typically include confidentiality and non-competition commitments. Our employees are not represented by unions. We consider our employee relations to be good.

