Ameren, formed in 1997 and headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a public utility holding company whose primary assets are its equity interests in its subsidiaries. Ameren’s subsidiaries are separate, independent legal entities with separate businesses, assets, and liabilities. Dividends on Ameren’s common stock and the payment of expenses by Ameren depend on distributions made to it by its subsidiaries.
Below is a summary description of Ameren’s principal subsidiaries – Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI. Ameren also has other subsidiaries that conduct other activities, such as providing shared services. A more detailed description can be found in Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
•Ameren Missouri operates a rate-regulated electric generation, transmission, and distribution business and a rate-regulated natural gas distribution business in Missouri.
•Ameren Illinois operates rate-regulated electric transmission, electric distribution, and natural gas distribution businesses in Illinois.
•ATXI operates a FERC rate-regulated electric transmission business in the MISO.
For additional information about the development of our businesses, our business operations, and factors affecting our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Ameren has four segments: Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution, Ameren Illinois Natural Gas, and Ameren Transmission. The Ameren Missouri segment includes all of the operations of Ameren Missouri. Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution consists of the electric distribution business of Ameren Illinois. Ameren Illinois Natural Gas consists of the natural gas business of Ameren Illinois. Ameren Transmission primarily consists of the aggregated electric transmission businesses of Ameren Illinois and ATXI.
Ameren Missouri has one segment. Ameren Illinois has three segments: Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution, Ameren Illinois Natural Gas, and Ameren Illinois Transmission.
An illustration of the Ameren Companies’ reporting structures is provided below:
6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
aee-20201231_g4.jpg
(a)    The Ameren Transmission segment also includes allocated Ameren (parent) interest charges, as well as other subsidiaries engaged in electric transmission project development and investment.
RATES AND REGULATION
Rates
The rates that Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are allowed to charge for their utility services significantly influence the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of these companies and Ameren. The electric and natural gas utility industry is highly regulated. The utility rates charged to customers are determined by governmental entities, including the MoPSC, the ICC, and the FERC. Decisions by these entities are influenced by many factors, including the cost of providing service, the prudency of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory staff knowledge and experience, customer intervention, and economic conditions, as well as social and political views. Decisions made by these governmental entities regarding customer rates are largely outside of our control. These decisions, as well as the regulatory lag involved in the process of obtaining approval for new customer rates, could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial position, and liquidity of the Ameren Companies. The extent of the regulatory lag varies for each of Ameren’s electric and natural gas jurisdictions, with the Ameren Transmission and Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution businesses experiencing the least amount of regulatory lag. Depending on the jurisdiction, the effects of regulatory lag are mitigated by various means, including annual revenue requirement reconciliations, the decoupling of revenues from sales volumes to ensure revenues approved in a regulatory rate review are not affected by changes in sales volumes, the recovery of certain capital investments between traditional regulatory rate reviews, the level and timing of expenditures, the use of a future test year, and the use of trackers and riders.
The MoPSC regulates rates and other matters for Ameren Missouri. The ICC regulates rates and other matters for Ameren Illinois. The MoPSC and the ICC regulate non-rate utility matters for ATXI. ATXI does not have retail distribution customers; therefore, the MoPSC and the ICC do not have authority to regulate ATXI’s rates. The FERC regulates Ameren Missouri’s, Ameren Illinois’, and ATXI’s cost-based rates for the wholesale transmission and distribution of energy in interstate commerce and various other matters discussed below under General Regulatory Matters.
For additional information on Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI rate matters, see Results of Operations and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk under Part II, Item 7A, and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes the key terms of the rate orders in effect for customer billings for each of Ameren’s rate-regulated utilities as of January 2021:
                     
 Rate Regulator Effective
Rate Order
Issued In Allowed
ROE Percent of
Common Equity Rate Base
(in billions) Portion of Ameren’s 2020 Operating Revenues(a) 
Ameren Missouri       
Electric service(b) MoPSC March 2020(c) 9.4% – 9.8%(c) (c) (c) 51% 
Natural gas delivery service MoPSC August 2019(d) 9.4% – 9.95%(d) 52.0% (d) 2% 
Ameren Illinois       
Electric distribution delivery service(e) ICC December 2020 8.38% 50.0% $3.4 26% 
Natural gas delivery service(f) ICC January 2021 9.67% 52.0% $2.1 13% 
Electric transmission service(g) FERC (g) 10.52% 54.0% $2.6 5% 
ATXI       
Electric transmission service(g) FERC (g) 10.52% 60.1% $1.4 3% 

(a)Includes pass-through costs recovered from customers, such as purchased power for electric distribution delivery service and natural gas purchased for resale for natural gas delivery service, and intercompany eliminations.
(b)Ameren Missouri’s electric generation, transmission, and delivery service rates are bundled together and charged to retail customers under a combined electric service rate.
(c)This rate order specified that an implicit ROE was within a range of 9.4% to 9.8%. This rate order did not specify a percent of common equity or rate base. The ROE used for allowance for equity funds used during construction is 9.53%.
(d)This rate order specified that an implicit ROE was within a range of 9.4% to 9.95%. This rate order did not specify rate base. The ROE used for allowance for equity funds used during construction is 9.53%.
(e)Ameren Illinois electric distribution delivery service rates are updated annually and become effective each January. This rate order was based on 2019 actual costs, expected net plant additions for 2020, and the annual average of the monthly yields during 2019 of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. Ameren Illinois’ allowed ROE for 2020 and 2019 was based on an annual average of the monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds of 1.56% and 2.58%, respectively. Ameren Illinois’ 2021 electric distribution delivery service revenues will be based on its 2021 actual recoverable costs, rate base, common equity percentage, and an allowed ROE, as calculated under the IEIMA’s performance-based formula ratemaking framework.
(f)This rate order was based on a 2021 future test year.
(g)Transmission rates are updated annually and become effective each January. They are determined by a company-specific, forward-looking formula ratemaking framework based on each year’s forecasted information. The 10.52% return, which includes a 50 basis points incentive adder for participation in an RTO, is based on the FERC’s May 2020 order. For additional information regarding this order and related requests for rehearing, see Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
General Regulatory Matters
Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI must receive FERC approval to enter into various transactions, such as issuing short-term debt securities and conducting certain acquisitions, mergers, and consolidations involving electric utility holding companies. In addition, Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI must receive authorization from the applicable state public utility regulatory agency to issue stock and long-term debt securities and to conduct mergers, affiliate transactions, and various other activities.
Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are also subject to mandatory reliability standards, including cybersecurity standards adopted by the FERC, to ensure the reliability of the bulk electric power system. These standards are developed and enforced by the NERC, pursuant to authority delegated to it by the FERC. Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are members of the SERC. The SERC is one of eight regional entities representing all or portions of 16 central and southeastern states under authority from the NERC for the purpose of implementing and enforcing reliability standards approved by the FERC. The regional entities of the NERC work to safeguard the reliability of the bulk power systems throughout North America. If any of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, or ATXI is found not to be in compliance with these mandatory reliability standards, it could incur substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions.
Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, the FERC and the state public utility regulatory agencies in each state Ameren and its subsidiaries operate in may access books and records of Ameren and its subsidiaries that are found to be relevant to costs incurred by Ameren’s rate-regulated subsidiaries that may affect jurisdictional rates. The act also permits the MoPSC and the ICC to request that the FERC review cost allocations by Ameren Services to other Ameren companies.
Operation of Ameren Missouri’s Callaway Energy Center is subject to regulation by the NRC. The license for the Callaway Energy Center expires in 2044. Ameren Missouri’s hydroelectric Osage Energy Center and pumped-storage hydroelectric Taum Sauk Energy Center, as licensed projects under the Federal Power Act, are subject to FERC regulations affecting, among other aspects, the general operation and maintenance of the projects. The licenses for the Osage Energy Center and the Taum Sauk Energy Center expire in 2047 and 2044, respectively. Ameren Missouri’s Keokuk Energy Center and its dam in the Mississippi River between Hamilton, Illinois, and Keokuk, Iowa, are operated under authority granted by an Act of Congress in 1905.
8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
For additional information on regulatory matters, see Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 9 – Callaway Energy Center, and Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
Environmental Matters
Our generation, transmission, and electric and natural gas distribution operations must comply with a variety of environmental laws contained in statutes and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and the health and safety of the public. These laws are comprehensive and include the storage, handling, and disposal of waste materials, emergency planning and response requirements, limitations and standards applicable to discharges from our facilities into the air or water that are enforced through permitting requirements, and wildlife protection laws, including those related to endangered species. These environmental regulations could also affect the availability of, the cost of, and the demand for electricity and natural gas sold to Ameren Missouri’s and Ameren Illinois’ customers as well as the demand for off-system sales. Federal, state, and local authorities continually revise these regulations, which adds uncertainty to our planning process and to the ultimate implementation of these or other new or revised regulations. Failure to comply with these laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We could be subject to criminal or civil penalties by regulatory agencies, or we could be ordered by the courts to pay private parties. Except as indicated in this report, we believe that we are in material compliance with existing laws that currently apply to our operations.
For discussion of environmental matters, including NOx and SO2 emission reduction requirements, regulation of CO2 emissions, wastewater discharge standards, remediation efforts, CCR management regulations, and a discussion of litigation against Ameren Missouri with respect to NSR, the Clean Air Act, and Missouri law in connection with projects at Ameren Missouri’s Rush Island Energy Center, see Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
TRANSMISSION
Ameren owns an integrated transmission system that is composed of the transmission assets of Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI. Ameren also operates two MISO balancing authority areas: AMMO and AMIL. The AMMO balancing authority area includes the load and energy centers of Ameren Missouri, and had a peak demand of 7,108 MWs in 2020. The AMIL balancing authority area includes the load of Ameren Illinois, and had a peak demand of 8,351 MWs in 2020. The Ameren transmission system directly connects with 15 other balancing authority areas for the exchange of electric energy.
Ameren Missouri, Ameren Illinois, and ATXI are transmission-owning members of the MISO. Ameren Missouri is authorized by the MoPSC to participate in the MISO through May 2024. Ameren Missouri is periodically required to make a filing with the MoPSC regarding its continued participation in the MISO. The next filing is due in 2023.
SUPPLY OF ELECTRIC POWER
Ameren Missouri
Ameren Missouri’s electric supply is primarily generated from its energy centers. Factors that could cause Ameren Missouri to purchase power include, among other things, energy center outages, the fulfillment of renewable energy requirements, extreme weather conditions, the availability of power at a cost lower than its generation cost, and the lack of sufficient owned generation.
Ameren Missouri files a long-term nonbinding integrated resource plan with the MoPSC every three years. The most recent integrated resource plan, filed in September 2020, includes Ameren Missouri’s preferred approach for meeting customers’ projected long-term energy needs in a cost-effective manner while maintaining system reliability and customer affordability. The plan, which is subject to review by the MoPSC for compliance with Missouri law, targets cleaner and more diverse sources of energy generation, including solar, wind, hydro, and nuclear power, and supports increased investment in new energy technologies. It also includes expanding renewable sources by adding 3,100 MWs of renewable generation by the end of 2030 and a total of 5,400 MWs of renewable generation by 2040, inclusive of the High Prairie and Atchison renewable energy centers, the expectation that Ameren Missouri will seek NRC approval for an extension of the operating license for the Callaway Energy Center, expanding customer energy-efficiency programs, adding cost-effective demand response programs, advancing the retirement dates of the Sioux and Rush Island coal-fired energy centers to 2028 and 2039, respectively, and retiring the remaining coal-fired energy centers as they reach the end of their useful lives, including the Meramec Energy Center by the end of 2022. The addition of a renewable generation facility is subject to obtaining necessary project approvals, including FERC approval and the issuance of a certificate of convenience and necessity by the MoPSC, as applicable. Advancing the retirement dates of the Sioux and Rush Island energy centers is subject to the approval of a change in the assets’ depreciable lives by the MoPSC in a future regulatory rate review. Ameren Missouri would be adversely affected if the MoPSC does not allow recovery of the remaining investment and decommissioning costs associated with the retirement of an energy center, as well as the ability to earn a return on that remaining investment and those decommissioning costs. Ameren Missouri expects to file its next integrated resource plan in September 2023.
9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Ameren Missouri continues to evaluate its longer-term needs for new generating capacity. The need for investment in new sources of energy is dependent on several key factors, including continuation of and customer participation in energy-efficiency programs, the amount of distributed generation from customers, load growth, technological advancements, costs of generation alternatives, environmental regulation of coal-fired power plants, and state renewable energy requirements, which could lead to the retirement of current baseload assets before the end of their current useful lives or alterations in the way those assets operate, which could result in increased capital expenditures and/or increased operations and maintenance expenses. Because of the significant time required to plan, acquire permits for, and build a baseload energy center, Ameren Missouri continues to study alternatives and to take steps to preserve options to meet future demand. Steps include evaluating the potential for further diversification of Ameren Missouri’s generation portfolio through renewable energy generation, including wind and solar generation, extending the operating license for the Callaway Energy Center, additional customer energy-efficiency and demand response programs, distributed energy resources, and energy storage.
Missouri law requires Ameren Missouri to offer rebates and net metering to certain customers that install solar generation at their premises. The cost of the rebates are deferred as a regulatory asset under the RESRAM, and earn carrying costs at short-term interest rates. Customers that elect to enroll in net metering are allowed to net their generation against their usage within each billing month.
Ameren Illinois
In Illinois, while electric transmission and distribution service rates are regulated, power supply prices are not. Although electric customers are allowed to purchase power from an alternative retail electric supplier, Ameren Illinois is required to be the provider of last resort for its electric distribution customers. In 2020, 2019, and 2018, Ameren Illinois procured power on behalf of its customers for 23%, 22%, and 23%, respectively, of its total kilowatthour sales. Power purchased by Ameren Illinois for its electric distribution customers who do not elect to purchase their power from an alternative retail electric supplier comes either through procurement processes conducted by the IPA or through markets operated by the MISO. The IPA administers an RFP process through which Ameren Illinois procures its expected supply. The power and related procurement costs incurred by Ameren Illinois are passed directly to its electric distribution customers through a cost recovery mechanism. The costs are reflected in Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution’s results of operations, but do not affect Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution’s earnings because these costs are offset by corresponding revenues. Ameren Illinois charges transmission and distribution service rates to electric distribution customers who purchase electricity from alternative retail electric suppliers, which does affect Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution’s earnings.
Illinois law requires Ameren Illinois to offer rebates for certain net metering customers. The cost of the rebates are deferred as a regulatory asset, which earn a return at the applicable WACC. Customers that receive these rebates are allowed to net their supply service charges, but not their distribution service charges. Ameren Illinois’ electric distribution revenues are decoupled from sales volumes, which ensures that the electric distribution revenues authorized in a regulatory rate review are not affected by changes in sales volumes.
POWER GENERATION
Ameren Missouri owns energy centers that rely on a diverse fuel portfolio, including coal, nuclear, and natural gas, as well as renewable sources of generation, which include hydroelectric, wind, methane gas, and solar. All of Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers were constructed prior to 1978. The Callaway nuclear energy center began operation in 1984 and is licensed to operate until 2044. As of December 31, 2020, Ameren Missouri’s coal-fired energy centers represented 11% and 23% of Ameren’s and Ameren Missouri’s rate base, respectively. See Item 2 – Properties under Part I of this report for information regarding Ameren Missouri’s energy centers.
Coal
Ameren Missouri has an ongoing need for coal as fuel for generation, and pursues a price-hedging strategy consistent with this requirement. Ameren Missouri has agreements in place to purchase and transport coal to its energy centers. As of December 31, 2020, Ameren Missouri had price-hedged 100% of its expected coal supply and 100% of its coal transportation requirements for generation in 2021. Ameren Missouri has additional coal supply under contract through 2025. The Powder River Basin coal transport agreements that Ameren Missouri has with Union Pacific Railroad and Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway are currently set to expire at the end of 2024. Ameren Missouri burned approximately 15.4 million tons of coal in 2020.
About 97% of Ameren Missouri’s coal is purchased from the Powder River Basin in Wyoming, which has a limited number of suppliers. The remaining coal is typically purchased from the Illinois Basin. Targeted coal inventory levels may be adjusted because of generation levels or uncertainties of supply due to potential work stoppages, delays in coal deliveries, equipment breakdowns, and other factors. Deliveries from the Powder River Basin have occasionally been restricted because of rail congestion and maintenance, derailments, weather, and supplier financial hardship. Coal suppliers in the Power River Basin are experiencing financial hardship because of a decrease in demand resulting from increased natural gas and renewable energy generation, and the impact of environmental regulations, as well as concerns related to coal-fired generation. These financial hardships have resulted in bankruptcy filings by certain coal suppliers in recent years. As of December 31, 2020, coal inventories for Ameren Missouri were near targeted levels. Disruptions in coal deliveries could cause Ameren 
10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Missouri to pursue a strategy that could include reducing off-system sales of power during low-margin periods, buying higher-cost fuels to generate required electricity, and purchasing power from other sources.
Nuclear
The production of nuclear fuel involves the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride gas, the enrichment of that gas, the conversion of the enriched uranium hexafluoride gas into uranium dioxide fuel pellets, and the fabrication into fuel assemblies. Ameren Missouri has entered into uranium, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment, and fabrication contracts to procure the fuel supply for its Callaway Energy Center.
The Callaway Energy Center has historically required refueling at 18-month intervals. During its return to full power after the completion of the last refueling and maintenance outage in late December 2020, the Callaway Energy Center experienced a non-nuclear operating issue related to its generator. A thorough investigation of this matter was conducted. Work has begun to replace certain key components of the generator in order to return the energy center to service. As of the date of this filing, due to the long lead time for the manufacture, repair, and installation of these components, the energy center is expected to return to service in late June or early July 2021. Ameren Missouri has inventories, supply contracts, and fuel fabrication service contracts sufficient to meet all of its uranium (concentrate and hexafluoride), conversion, and enrichment requirements at least through the 2025 refueling.
RENEWABLE ENERGY AND ZERO EMISSION STANDARDS
Missouri and Illinois laws require electric utilities to include renewable energy resources in their portfolios. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois satisfied their renewable energy portfolio requirements in 2020.
Ameren Missouri
In Missouri, utilities were required to purchase or generate electricity equal to at least 10% of native load sales from renewable energy sources in 2020. The requirement increased to at least 15% in 2021, subject to an average 1% annual increase on customer rates over any 10-year period. At least 2% of the annual renewable energy requirement must be derived from solar energy. Ameren Missouri expects to satisfy the nonsolar requirement in 2021 with its High Prairie Renewable, Atchison Renewable, Keokuk, and Maryland Heights energy centers, a 102-MW power purchase agreement with a wind farm operator, and immaterial renewable energy credit purchases in the market. In December 2020, Ameren Missouri acquired and placed in service the High Prairie Renewable Energy Center, a 400-MW wind generation facility. In January 2021, Ameren Missouri acquired an up-to 300-MW wind generation project and, as of the date of this filing, placed 120 MWs in service as the Atchison Renewable Energy Center. Ameren Missouri expects approximately 150 MWs to be in service by the end of the first quarter of 2021, and the remaining portion to be in service later in 2021. For additional information see Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report. The Keokuk Energy Center generates electricity using a hydroelectric dam located on the Mississippi River. The Maryland Heights Energy Center generates electricity by burning methane gas collected from a landfill. Ameren Missouri is meeting the solar energy requirement by purchasing solar-generated renewable energy credits from customer-installed systems and by generating solar energy at its O’Fallon, Lambert, and BJC energy centers and its headquarters building.
Ameren Illinois
In accordance with Illinois law, Ameren Illinois is required to collect funds from all electric distribution customers to fund IPA procurement events for renewable energy credits. The amount collected from customers by Ameren Illinois is capped at $1.81 per MWh. The IPA establishes its long-term renewable resources procurement plans in a filing made every two years. The IPA’s initial long-term renewable resources procurement plan was approved by the ICC in 2018. The IPA’s plan set forth guidelines by which the IPA should procure 15-year contracts for wind renewable energy credits and solar renewable energy credits. As a result, Ameren Illinois is required to purchase 1.2 million wind renewable energy credits per year and 1.2 million solar renewable energy credits per year, through IPA procurement events, which represented approximately 7% of Ameren Illinois’ electric distribution sales in 2020. The IPA has completed several procurement events, resulting in contractual commitments for Ameren Illinois of 0.9 million wind renewable energy credits per year and 1.2 million solar renewable energy credits per year. Ameren Illinois has also entered into renewable energy credit contracts with 20-year terms ending 2032 and will execute additional contracts in 2021, through IPA procurement events, in order to fulfill its remaining obligations. In February 2020, the ICC approved the IPA’s second long-term renewable resources procurement plan. Under the second plan, based on forecasted customer collections to fund renewable energy credit contracts, the IPA does not anticipate procuring additional contracts. However, if customer funds collected exceed the cost of procured contracts, the IPA may procure additional contracts. Funds collected but not used to procure renewable energy credits will be refunded to customers pursuant to a reconciliation proceeding that would be initiated after August 2021. 
Illinois law also required Ameren Illinois to enter into contracts for zero emission credits in an amount equal to approximately 16% of the actual amount of electricity delivered to retail customers during calendar year 2014, pursuant to Illinois’ zero emission standard. As a result of a 2018 IPA procurement event, which was approved by the ICC, Ameren Illinois entered into agreements to acquire zero emission credits through 2026. Annual zero emission credit commitment amounts will be published by the IPA each May prior to the start of the subsequent 
11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
planning year. Both renewable energy credits and zero emission credits have cost recovery mechanisms, which allow Ameren Illinois to collect from, or refund to, customers differences between actual costs incurred from the resulting contracts and the amounts collected from customers.
CUSTOMER ENERGY-EFFICIENCY PROGRAMS
Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois have implemented energy-efficiency programs to educate and to help their customers become more efficient energy consumers.
Ameren Missouri
In Missouri, the Missouri Energy Efficiency Investment Act established a rider that, among other things, allows electric utilities to recover costs with respect to MoPSC-approved customer energy-efficiency programs. The law requires the MoPSC to ensure that a utility’s financial incentives are aligned to help customers use energy more efficiently, to provide timely cost recovery, and to provide earnings opportunities associated with cost-effective energy-efficiency programs. Missouri does not have a law mandating energy-efficiency programs.
In 2018, the MoPSC issued an order approving Ameren Missouri’s MEEIA 2019 plan. The plan includes a portfolio of customer energy-efficiency programs through December 2022 and low-income customer energy-efficiency programs through December 2024, along with a rider. Ameren Missouri intends to invest $290 million over the life of the plan, including $65 million in 2021 and $70 million in 2022. In addition, the plan includes a performance incentive that provides Ameren Missouri an opportunity to earn additional revenues by achieving certain customer energy-efficiency goals. In August 2020, the MoPSC issued an order approving a unanimous stipulation and agreement establishing performance incentives for the 2022 program year. If the target goals are achieved for 2020, 2021, and 2022, additional revenues of $10 million, $13 million, and $11 million would be recognized in 2021, 2022, and 2022, respectively. Incremental additional revenues of $3 million, $3 million, and $1 million may be earned for 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively, and would be recognized in the respective following year if Ameren Missouri exceeds its targeted goals. Ameren Missouri’s ability to achieve and/or exceed targeted goals could be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Through 2020, Ameren Missouri has invested $121 million in MEEIA 2019 customer energy-efficiency programs. Additionally, as part of its Smart Energy Plan, Ameren Missouri has invested $115 million in smart meters since 2019 that enable customers to improve their energy efficiency.
The MEEIA 2019 plan includes the continued use of the MEEIA rider. The MEEIA rider allows Ameren Missouri to collect from, or refund to, customers any difference between actual program costs, lost electric margins, and any performance incentive and the amounts collected from customers, without a traditional regulatory rate review, until lower volumes resulting from the MEEIA programs are reflected in base rates. Customer rates, based upon both forecasted program costs and lost electric margins and collected via the MEEIA rider, are reconciled annually to actual results.
Ameren Illinois
State law requires Ameren Illinois to offer customer energy-efficiency programs, and imposes electric energy-efficiency savings goals and a maximum amount of investment in electric energy-efficiency programs through 2030, which is approximately $100 million annually. In September 2017, the ICC issued an order approving Ameren Illinois’ electric and natural gas energy-efficiency plans, as well as regulatory recovery mechanisms. The order authorized electric and natural gas energy-efficiency program expenditures of $394 million and $62 million, respectively, for the 2018 through 2021 period. Additionally, as part of its IEIMA capital investments, Ameren Illinois has invested $300 million in smart meters since 2012 that enable customers to improve their energy efficiency.
Illinois law allows Ameren Illinois to earn a return on its electric energy-efficiency program investments made since June 2017. Ameren Illinois’ electric energy-efficiency investments are deferred as a regulatory asset and earn a return at the applicable WACC, with the ROE based on the annual average of the monthly yields of the 30-year United States Treasury bonds plus 580 basis points. The allowed ROE on electric energy-efficiency investments can be increased or decreased by up to 200 basis points, depending on the achievement of annual energy savings goals. Ameren Illinois plans to invest up to approximately $100 million per year in electric energy-efficiency programs through 2025, and will earn a return on those investments. While the ICC has approved a plan consistent with this spending level through 2021, the ICC has the ability to reduce the amount of electric energy-efficiency savings goals in future plan program years if there are insufficient cost-effective programs available, which could reduce the investments in electric energy-efficiency programs. The electric energy-efficiency program investments and the return on those investments are collected from customers through a rider and are not included in the electric distribution service performance-based formula ratemaking framework. Ameren Illinois’ natural gas energy-efficiency program costs are recovered as they are incurred through a regulatory recovery mechanism.
NATURAL GAS SUPPLY FOR DISTRIBUTION
Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois are responsible for the purchase and delivery of natural gas to their customers. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois each develop and manage a portfolio of natural gas supply resources. These resources include firm natural gas supply 
12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
agreements with producers, firm interstate and intrastate transportation capacity, firm no-notice storage capacity leased from interstate pipelines, and on-system storage facilities to maintain natural gas deliveries to customers throughout the year and especially during peak demand periods. Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois primarily use Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, Trunkline Gas Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Mississippi River Transmission Corporation, Northern Border Pipeline Company, and Texas Eastern Transmission Corporation interstate pipeline systems to transport natural gas to their systems. In addition to transactions requiring physical delivery, certain financial instruments, including those entered into in the New York Mercantile Exchange futures market and in the over-the-counter financial markets, are used to hedge the price paid for natural gas. Natural gas supply costs are passed on to customers of Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois under PGA clauses, subject to prudence reviews by the MoPSC and the ICC. As of December 31, 2020, Ameren Missouri and Ameren Illinois had price-hedged 68% and 73%, respectively, of their expected 2021 natural gas supply requirements.
For additional information on our fuel, purchased power, and natural gas for distribution supply, see Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, of this report and Commodity Price Risk under Part II, Item 7A, of this report. Also see Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Note 7 – Derivative Financial Instruments, Note 13 – Related-party Transactions, Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 15 – Supplemental Information under Part II, Item 8 of this report.
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The execution of Ameren’s core strategy to invest in regulated infrastructure, continuously improve performance, and advocate for responsible policies to deliver superior customer and shareholder value is driven by the capabilities and engagement of our workforce. Ameren’s workforce strategy is designed to promote a diverse workforce that is prepared to deliver on Ameren’s mission (To Power the Quality of Life) and vision (Leading the Way to a Sustainable Energy Future), both today and in the future. Our workforce strategy is anchored in four key pillars: Culture, Leadership, Talent, and Rewards, which are discussed further below. Foundational to our workforce strategy are our core values of:
      
•Safety and security
•Commitment to excellence
•Respect
•Accountability •Diversity, equity, and inclusion
•Integrity
•Teamwork
•Stewardship 

Ameren’s chief executive officer and chief human resources officer, with the support of other leaders of the Ameren Companies, are responsible for developing and executing our workforce strategy. In addition to reviewing and determining the Ameren Companies’ compensation practices and policies for the chief executive officer and other executive officers, the Human Resources Committee of Ameren’s board of directors is responsible for oversight of Ameren’s human capital management practices and policies, including those related to diversity, equity, and inclusion. The Human Resources Committee and Ameren’s board of directors are updated regularly on human capital matters.
Culture
We strive to cultivate a values-based “All-In” culture that enables the sustainable execution of our core strategy and reflects the following characteristics:
      
•We Care about our customers, our communities, and each other
•We Serve with Passion •We Deliver for our customers and stakeholders
•We Win Together as a result of our teamwork and collaboration 

We design our human capital management practices and policies to reinforce our core values, share our culture, and drive employee engagement. In doing so, we strive to align our employees to our mission and vision, improve safety, enhance innovation, increase productivity, attract and retain top talent, and recognize employee contributions, among other things. We assess employee engagement through a variety of channels. As a part of our assessment, we conduct confidential employee engagement surveys at least annually to identify areas of strength and opportunities for improvement in our employees’ experience, and take actions aimed at increasing employee engagement.
As a part of our All-In culture, every employee is expected to challenge any unsafe act, complete each workday safely, and provide feedback on safety and security matters. In addition to comprehensive safety and security standards, and mandatory health, safety, and security training programs for applicable employees, we promote programs designed to encourage employees to provide feedback on practices or actions that could harm employees, customers, or the Ameren Companies, including perceived issues related to safety, security (both physical and cyber), ethics and compliance violations, or acts of discrimination. For additional information about the actions taken designed to protect the safety of our employees and customers during the COVID-19 pandemic, see The COVID-19 Pandemic section below.
13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
We seek to foster diversity, equity, and inclusion, which was elevated to a core value in 2020, across our organization. Ameren has established programs to recruit early and mid-career talent to further enhance the diversity of our workforce pipelines. These programs include an intern/coop program that serves as a pipeline for STEM-related careers, a career reentry program for experienced professionals transitioning from voluntary career breaks, and a program for individuals transitioning from military service. Additionally, each year management and the Human Resources Committee of Ameren’s board of directors review the diversity of our workforce, leadership team, and leadership development pipeline, as well as the actions taken to further enhance the diversity of our leadership team. In addition, the Ameren Companies contribute to community-based organizations, hold diversity, equity, and inclusion leadership summits for employees and community leaders, and offer various training programs. Beginning in 2021, we implemented a program to provide paid-time off for employees who engage in volunteer or learning opportunities with organizations that support diversity, equity, and inclusion. We also have employee resource groups, which bring together groups of employees who share common interests or backgrounds. Within these groups, employees collaborate to address concerns and provide training and development opportunities related to challenges or barriers, and offer support for each other, among other things.
Leadership
Ameren’s leaders play a critical role in setting and executing Ameren’s strategic initiatives, modeling our values and culture, and engaging and enabling the workforce. As such, we seek to develop a strong, diverse leadership team. Management engages in an extensive succession planning process annually, which includes the involvement by Ameren’s board of directors. We develop our leaders both individually, through job rotations, work experiences, and leadership development programs, and as a team. Throughout the year, we offer a variety of forums intended to connect our leaders to our mission, values, strategy and culture, build leadership skills and capabilities, and to promote connection and inclusion. In addition, we evaluate our organizational structure and make adjustments and expand roles to facilitate execution of our strategy and organizational efficiency.
Talent
In order to attract and retain a skilled and diverse workforce, we promote an inclusive work environment, provide opportunities for employees to expand their knowledge and skill sets, and support career development. Our talent management initiatives include a wide range of recruiting partnerships and programs, including those programs discussed above. Our onboarding efforts are designed to ensure early engagement, including the opportunity to participate in mentoring programs. Additionally, employees are encouraged to participate in technical, professional, and leadership development opportunities, and outreach initiatives to engage with the communities that we serve, among other things. As our business needs change, we remain focused on ensuring that our workforce has the tools and skills necessary to deliver on our strategic initiatives.
Workforce
The majority of our workforce is comprised of skilled-craft and STEM-related professional and technical employees. Our workforce has been stable, with a total attrition rate of 7% in 2020. The majority of employee attrition is attributable to employee retirements, generally allowing for thoughtful workforce and succession planning in advance of these planned transitions. The following table presents our employee count and their average tenure as of December 31, 2020, and the attrition rate in 2020:
                        
  Employee
Count  Average Tenure 
(in years)  Attrition
Rate  
Ameren  9,183  14  7%  
Ameren Missouri  3,997  15  7%  
Ameren Illinois  3,304  14  7%  
Ameren Services  1,882  11  6%  

Ameren’s workforce is diverse in many ways. At the officer level, which represents 53 individuals, 23% are female and 21% are racially and/or ethnically diverse. The following table presents our total employee population that is represented by a collective bargaining unit, is a female, or is racially and/or ethnically diverse at December 31, 2020:
                         
  Collective Bargaining Unit  Female  Racially and/or Ethnically Diverse   
Ameren  48%  25%  15%   
Ameren Missouri  59%  17%  14%   
Ameren Illinois  55%  24%  13%   
Ameren Services  13%  40%  22%   

14
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
The following table presents Ameren’s employees by generation at December 31, 2020:
               
Generation Description Ameren Ameren Missouri Ameren Illinois Ameren Services 
Baby Boomer (birth years between 1946 and 1964) 24% 24% 23% 24% 
Generation X (birth years between 1965 and 1980) 40% 41% 39% 41% 
Millennials (birth years between 1981 and 1996) 34% 33% 37% 33% 
Generation Z/Post Millennial (birth years after 1997) 2% 2% 1% 2% 
     

Collective bargaining units at Ameren’s subsidiaries consist of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the International Union of Operating Engineers, the Laborer’s International Union of North America, the United Association of Plumbers and Pipefitters, and the United Government Security Officers of America. The Ameren Companies expect continued constructive relationships with their respective labor unions. The Ameren Missouri collective bargaining unit contracts expire in 2021 and 2022, which cover 3% and 97% of represented employees, respectively. The Ameren Illinois collective bargaining unit contracts expire in 2022 and 2023, which cover 93% and 7% of represented employees, respectively.
Rewards
The primary objective of our rewards program is to provide a total rewards package that attracts and retains a talented workforce and reinforces strong performance in a financially sustainable manner. Management continuously evaluates our core benefits in an effort to create a market-competitive, performance-based, shareholder-aligned total rewards package with a view towards balancing employee value and financial sustainability. We recognize that the rewards package required to attract and retain talent over the long term is about more than pay and benefits; it is about the total employee experience and supporting their overall well-being. In addition to base salary, medical benefits, and retirement benefits, including 401(k) savings and pension, our total rewards package includes short-term incentives and long-term stock-based compensation for certain employees. Further, we offer our employees various programs that encourage overall well-being, including wellness and employee assistance programs. We strive to provide a competitive and sustainable rewards package that supports our ability to attract, engage, and retain a talented and diverse workforce, while at the same time reinforcing and rewarding strong performance. 
THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC
The COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a constantly evolving situation. In 2020, we experienced a net decrease in our sales volumes, an increase in our accounts receivable balances that were past due or that were a part of a deferred payment arrangement, and a decline in our cash collections from customers. The continued effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity in subsequent periods will depend on its severity and longevity, future regulatory or legislative actions with respect thereto, and the resulting impact on business, economic, and capital market conditions. Shelter-in-place orders began taking effect in our service territories in mid-March 2020. These orders generally required individuals to remain at home and precluded or limited the operation of businesses that were deemed nonessential. While our business operations were deemed essential and were not directly impacted by the shelter-in-place orders, approximately 65% of our workforce transitioned to remote working arrangements in mid-March 2020. In order to work more effectively in certain areas, a portion of our workforce returned to our work locations in early June 2020 under a phased approach, and, as of the date of this filing, approximately 50% of our workforce continues to work remotely. In mid-May 2020, shelter-in-place orders effective in our service territories began to be relaxed, with fewer restrictions on social activities and nonessential businesses beginning to reopen. However, certain restrictions remain in place that limit individual activities and the operation of nonessential businesses. Additional restrictions may be imposed in the future. 
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Ameren has taken significant actions designed to protect the safety of our employees and customers, including restricting travel for employees, implementing work-from-home policies, offering voluntary leave of absence arrangements and flexible reduced work schedules, enhancing paid time off programs for impacted employees, securing and supplying personal protective equipment, and implementing work practices to protect the safety of our employees and customers. In addition to our existing employee assistance program, we provided additional resources on physical, emotional, and financial well-being throughout the pandemic.
For further discussion of the impact to our businesses related to the pandemic and regulatory mechanisms that reduce these impacts, as well as Ameren Missouri’s requests for accounting authority orders related to COVID-19 pandemic costs, see Overview, Results of Operations, and Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, and Note 1 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters under Part II, Item 8, of this report.
INDUSTRY ISSUES
We are facing issues common to the electric and natural gas utility industry. These issues include:
•the potential for changes in laws, regulations, enforcement efforts, and policies at the state and federal levels;
15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
•corporate tax law changes, as well as additional interpretations, regulations, amendments, or technical corrections that affect the amount and timing of income tax payments, reduce or limit the ability to claim certain deductions and use carryforward tax benefits and/or credits, or result in rate base reductions;
•cybersecurity risks, cyber attacks, including ransomware and other ransom-based attacks, hacking, social engineering, and other forms of malicious cybersecurity and/or privacy events, which could result in the loss of operational control of energy centers and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution systems and/or the theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information, including sensitive customer, employee, financial, and operating system information;
•political, regulatory, and customer resistance to higher rates;
•the potential for more intense competition in generation, supply, and distribution, including new technologies and their declining costs;
•the impact and effectiveness of vegetation management programs;
•the modernization of the electric grid to accommodate a two-way flow of electricity and increase capacity for distributed generation interconnection;
•net metering rules and other changes in existing regulatory frameworks and recovery mechanisms to address the allocation of costs to customers who own generation resources that enable them both to sell power to us and to purchase power from us through the use of our transmission and distribution assets;
•legislation or programs to encourage or mandate energy efficiency, energy conservation, and renewable sources of power, and the lack of consensus as to how those programs should be paid for;
•pressure and uncertainty on customer growth and sales volumes in light of the COVID-19 pandemic and other economic conditions, distributed generation, energy storage, technological advances, and energy-efficiency or conservation initiatives;
•the potential for orders to suspend disconnections and/or late fees for customer nonpayment resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and the related potential impact on liquidity;
•changes in the structure of the industry as a result of changes in federal and state laws, including the formation and growth of independent transmission entities;
•changes in the allowed ROE on FERC-regulated electric transmission assets;
•the availability of fuel and fluctuations in fuel prices;
•the availability of materials and equipment, and the potential disruptions in supply chains resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic;
•the availability of a skilled work force, including retaining the specialized skills of those who are nearing retirement;
•the potential for reduced efficiency and productivity due to increased use of remote working arrangements;
•regulatory lag;
•the influence of macroeconomic factors on yields of United States Treasury securities and on the allowed ROE provided by regulators;
•higher levels of infrastructure and technology investments and adjustments to customer rates associated with the refund of excess deferred income taxes that have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, negative or decreased free cash flow, which is defined as cash flows from operating activities less cash flows from investing activities and dividends paid;
•the demand for access to renewable energy generation at rates acceptable to customers;
•public concerns about the siting of new facilities, and challenges that members of the public can assert against applications for governmental permits and other approvals required to site and build new facilities that can result in significant cost increases, delays and denial of the permits and approvals by the regulators;
•complex new and proposed environmental laws including statutes, regulations, and requirements, such as air and water quality standards, mercury emissions standards, CCR management requirements, and potential CO2 limitations, which may reduce the frequency at which electric generating units are dispatched based upon their CO2 emissions;
•public concerns about the potential environmental impacts from the combustion of fossil fuels and the use of natural gas;
•certain investors’ concerns about investing in utility companies that have coal-fired generation assets and increasing scrutiny of environmental, social, and governance practices;
•aging infrastructure and the need to construct new power generation, transmission, and distribution facilities, which have long time frames for completion, with limited long-term ability to predict power and commodity prices and regulatory requirements;
•public concerns about nuclear generation, decommissioning, and the disposal of nuclear waste;
•industry reputational challenges resulting from recent high profile inappropriate lobbying and similar activities by certain utility companies; and
•consolidation of electric and natural gas utility companies.
We are monitoring all these issues. Except as otherwise noted in this report, we are unable to predict what impact, if any, these issues will have on our results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. For additional information, see Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A, Outlook in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Part II, Item 7, Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters, Note 9 – Callaway Energy Center, and Note 14 – Commitments and Contingencies under Part II, Item 8, of this report.


16

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
OPERATING STATISTICS
The following tables present key electric and natural gas operating statistics for Ameren for the past three years:
                     
Electric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31, 2020  2019  2018  
Electric Sales – kilowatthours (in millions):       
Ameren Missouri:       
Residential 13,267    13,532    14,320    
Commercial 13,117    14,269    14,791    
Industrial 4,158    4,242    4,499    
Street lighting and public authority 88    99    108    
Ameren Missouri retail load subtotal 30,630    32,142    33,718    
Off-system 7,578    5,477    10,036    
Ameren Missouri total 38,208    37,619    43,754    
Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution(a):       
Residential 11,491    11,675    12,099    
Commercial 11,414    12,341    12,717    
Industrial 10,674    11,587    11,673    
Street lighting and public authority 442    491    513    
Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution total 34,021    36,094    37,002    
Eliminate affiliate sales (322)   (84)   (288)   
Ameren total 71,907    73,629    80,468    
Electric Operating Revenues (in millions):       
Ameren Missouri:       
Residential $ 1,373    $ 1,403    $ 1,560    
Commercial 1,025    1,157    1,271    
Industrial 261    278    312    
Other, including street lighting and public authority 155    127    30   (b) 
Ameren Missouri retail load subtotal $ 2,814    $ 2,965    $ 3,173    
Off-system 170    144    278    
Ameren Missouri total $ 2,984    $ 3,109    $ 3,451    
Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution:       
Residential $ 867    $ 848    $ 867    
Commercial 486    497    511    
Industrial 124    127    130    
Other, including street lighting and public authority 21    32    39    
Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution total $ 1,498    $ 1,504    $ 1,547    
Ameren Transmission:       
Ameren Illinois Transmission(c) $ 329    $ 288    $ 267    
ATXI 194    176    166    
Ameren Transmission total $ 523    $ 464    $ 433    
Other and intersegment eliminations (94)   (96)   (92)   
Ameren total $ 4,911    $ 4,981    $ 5,339    

(a)Sales for which power was supplied by Ameren Illinois as well as alternative retail electric suppliers. In 2020, 2019, and 2018, Ameren Illinois procured power on behalf of its customers for 23%, 22%, and 23%, respectively, of its total kilowatthour sales.
(b)Includes $60 million for the year ended December 31, 2018, for the reduction to revenue for the excess amounts collected in rates related to the TCJA from January 1, 2018, through July 31, 2018. See Note 2 – Rate and Regulatory Matters for additional information.
(c)Includes $52 million, $62 million, and $53 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, of electric operating revenues from transmission services provided to Ameren Illinois Electric Distribution.


17
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
                     
Electric Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31, 2020  2019  2018  
Ameren Missouri fuel costs (cents per kilowatthour generated)(a) 1.38  ¢  1.38  ¢  1.59  ¢  
Source of Ameren Missouri energy supply:       
Coal 67.3  %  63.4  %  67.8  %  
Nuclear 19.4    23.3    23.7    
Hydroelectric 4.5    5.0    2.5    
Natural gas 0.5    0.5    1.0    
Methane gas and solar 0.5    0.2    0.1    
Purchased – wind 0.6    0.7    0.6    
Purchased power 7.2    6.9    4.3    
Ameren Missouri total 100.0  %  100.0  %  100.0  %  

(a)    Ameren Missouri fuel costs exclude ($49) million, $5 million and $44 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, for changes in FAC recoveries.
                     
Natural Gas Operating Statistics – Year Ended December 31, 2020  2019  2018  
Natural Gas Sales – dekatherms (in millions):       
Ameren Missouri:       
Residential 7    7    7    
Commercial 3    4    4    
Industrial 1    1    1    
Transport 9    9    9    
Ameren Missouri total 20    21    21    
Ameren Illinois Natural Gas:       
Residential 55    61    60    
Commercial 15    19    18    
Industrial 7    4    4    
Transport 96    101    100    
Ameren Illinois Natural Gas total 173    185    182    
Ameren total 193    206    203    
Natural Gas Operating Revenues (in millions):       
Ameren Missouri:       
Residential $ 76    $ 81    $ 90    
Commercial 29    34    37    
Industrial 4    4    4    
Transport and other 16    15    7    
Ameren Missouri total $ 125    $ 134    $ 138    
Ameren Illinois Natural Gas:       
Residential $ 541    $ 570    $ 581    
Commercial 136    154    159    
Industrial 14    13    17    
Transport and other 69    60    58    
Ameren Illinois Natural Gas total $ 760    $ 797    $ 815    
Other and intercompany eliminations (2)   (2)   (1)   
Ameren total $ 883    $ 929    $ 952    
 
Rate Base Statistics – At December 31, 2020  2019  2018  
Rate Base (in billions):       
Electric transmission and distribution $ 12.1    $ 10.7    $ 9.4    
Natural gas transmission and distribution 2.4    2.1    1.9    
Coal generation:       
Labadie Energy Center 0.9    0.9    0.8    
Sioux Energy Center 0.7    0.6    0.6    
Rush Island Energy Center 0.4    0.5    0.4    
Meramec Energy Center 0.1    0.1    0.2    
Coal generation total 2.1    2.1    2.0    
Nuclear generation 1.5    1.4    1.3    
Renewable generation 1.0    0.5    0.5    
Natural gas generation 0.3    0.4    0.4    
Rate base total $ 19.4    $ 17.2    $ 15.5    

18

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
AVAILABLE INFORMATION
The Ameren Companies make available free of charge through Ameren’s website (www.amereninvestors.com) their annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably possible after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These documents are also available through the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov). Ameren’s website is a channel of distribution for material information about the Ameren Companies. Financial and other material information is routinely posted to, and accessible at, Ameren’s website.
The Ameren Companies also make available free of charge through Ameren’s website the charters of Ameren’s board of directors’ Audit and Risk Committee, Human Resources Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Finance Committee, and Nuclear, Operations and Environmental Sustainability Committee; the corporate governance guidelines; a policy regarding communications to the board of directors; a policy and procedures document with respect to related-person transactions; a code of ethics applicable to all directors, officers and employees; a supplemental code of ethics for principal executive and senior financial officers; and a director nomination policy that applies to the Ameren Companies. The information on Ameren’s website, or any other website referenced in this report, is not incorporated by reference into this report.
