Maximizing Industry 

Leadership and 

Global Footprint

 
  

Creating Value through Profitable

Growth and a Culture of 

Underwriting and Operational Excellence
 

 

American International Group, Inc. (AIG) 

is a leading global insurance organization. We provide a wide range of property casualty insurance, life insurance, retirement solutions, and other financial services to customers in approximately 80 countries and jurisdictions. These diverse offerings include products and services that help businesses and individuals protect their assets, manage risks and provide for retirement security. AIG common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 

In addition to natural catastrophes, in 2020, AIG effectively managed through COVID-19 and its collateral effects on the global economy thanks to the strong foundation created since late 2017 to instill a culture of underwriting excellence, adjust risk tolerances, implement a best-in-class reinsurance program, de-risk our balance sheet and maintain a balanced investment portfolio. We continue this momentum and embark on an important phase of our journey in becoming a top-performing company with our proactive leadership transition and corporate structure changes to come. 
 

 

In this Annual Report, unless otherwise mentioned or unless the context indicates otherwise, we use the terms “AIG,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” to refer to American International Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. We use the term “AIG Parent” to refer solely to American International Group, Inc., and not to any of its consolidated subsidiaries.

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 3


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

About AIG

World-Class Insurance Franchises

that are among the leaders in their geographies and segmentations, providing differentiated service and expertise.
 Breadth of Loyal Customers

including millions of clients and policyholders ranging from multi-national Fortune 500 companies to individuals throughout the world.
 Broad and Long-Standing Distribution Relationships

with brokers, agents, advisors, banks and other distributors across all lines of business.
 

 

Highly Engaged Global Workforce Recognized for Inclusivity with more than 25 percent participating in Employee Resource Groups that foster a culture of inclusion, engage employees and help create a sense of belonging.
 Balance Sheet Quality and Capital Strength

as demonstrated by over $66 billion in shareholders’ equity and AIG Parent liquidity sources of $15.0 billion as of December 31, 2020.
 

 

2021 Priorities

 Separation of Life and Retirement Business from AIG – Pursue separation of Life and Retirement business from AIG in a manner intended to maximize value for shareholders and other stakeholders and establish two strong, market-leading companies
  
  Business Mix & Targeted Growth – Build on strategic portfolio improvement and product diversity by focusing on growing segments of our business that perform well and are aligned with our underwriting strategy
 
 
  
  
 
 Leadership, Culture and Talent – Maintain focus on attracting, developing and retaining world-class employees; further promote diversity, equity and inclusion at all levels through continued support of robust employee resource and development programs and recruitment strategies
  
  Underwriting Excellence and Pricing Discipline – Continue to enhance General Insurance portfolio rate adequacy through use of underwriting framework and guidelines and clear communication of risk appetite; continue long-standing disciplined approach in Life and Retirement with respect to product pricing and features
 
 
  
  
 
 AIG 200 – Continue progress on multi-year initiatives to support underwriting excellence, modernize our operating infrastructure, enhance user and customer experiences and become a more unified company
  
  Optimize Risk Management – Optimize risk profile through disciplined underwriting, reinsurance programs and asset-liability management in the investment portfolio
 
 
  
  
 
 Capital Management – Maintain strong capitalization and financial flexibility for our businesses, implement a stand-alone capital structure for our Life and Retirement business and recapitalize AIG Parent debt to create long-term shareholder value
 

 

2020 Highlights

 
  
 
Resilient General Insurance Portfolio

from Underwriting Discipline

Manageable impact of COVID-19 and natural catastrophes reflected in 2020 Calendar Year Combined Ratio of 104.3 compared to 99.6 in 2019. 2020 Accident Year Combined Ratio, As Adjusted(a) of 94.1 compared to 96.0 in 2019 showed continued improvement due to underwriting discipline, limit management and continued focus on expense reduction
 Continued Solid Returns from

Life and Retirement

Full-Year 2020 Adjusted Pre-tax Income of $3.5 billion compared to $3.6 billion in 2019

Results reflect diversified product portfolio

and balanced risk profile(b)
 
Effective Risk Management

Established Syndicate 2019 with Lloyd’s to access strategic partners to participate in peak zones while facilitating growth in AIG’s high net worth business, and completed the sale of our majority interest in Fortitude Group Holdings, LLC (Fortitude Holdings) to mitigate a significant portion of our legacy risks(c)
 

(a) Non-GAAP measure – for reconciliation of Non-GAAP to GAAP measure see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A).

(b) On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG.

(c) For further discussion on the Fortitude Holdings transaction see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

4 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

AIG’s Operating Structure

In the fourth quarter of 2020, AIG’s chief operating decision makers modified their view of AIG’s businesses and how they allocate resources and assess performance. The new operating structure no longer includes a Legacy segment. AIG now reports the results of its businesses through three segments – General Insurance, Life and Retirement and Other Operations. Prior periods were revised to conform to the current period presentation. 

General Insurance consists of two operating segments – North America and International. Life and Retirement consists of four operating segments – Individual Retirement, Group Retirement, Life Insurance and Institutional Markets. Certain run-off life insurance portfolios previously reported in our Legacy segment have been realigned into the Life Insurance operating segment. The run-off high net worth (private placement variable universal life and private placement variable annuity) and structured settlement portfolios previously reported in our Legacy segment have been realigned into the Institutional Markets operating segment. Other Operations is primarily comprised of corporate, our institutional asset management business and consolidation and eliminations. On October 26, 2020, we announced our intention to separate our Life and Retirement business from AIG.

Consistent with how we manage our business, our General Insurance North America operating segment primarily includes insurance businesses in the United States, Canada, Bermuda, and our global reinsurance business, AIG Re. Our General Insurance International operating segment includes regional insurance businesses in Japan, the United Kingdom, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA region), Asia Pacific, Latin America and Caribbean, and China. International also includes the results of Talbot Holdings, Ltd. as well as AIG’s global specialty business.

For further discussion on our business segments see Item 7. MD&A and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Business Segments

 
  
  
  
 
 
 General Insurance

 

General Insurance is a leading provider of insurance products and services for commercial and personal insurance customers. It includes one of the world’s most far-reaching property casualty networks. General Insurance offers a broad range of products to customers through a diversified, multichannel distribution network. Customers value General Insurance’s strong capital position, extensive risk management and claims experience and its ability to be a market leader in critical lines of the insurance business.

 

Picture 3Picture 4

 Life and Retirement

 

Life and Retirement is a unique franchise that brings together a broad portfolio of life insurance, retirement and institutional products offered through an extensive, multichannel distribution network. It holds long-standing, leading market positions in many of the markets it serves in the U.S. With its strong capital position, customer-focused service, breadth of product expertise and deep distribution relationships across multiple channels, Life and Retirement is well positioned to serve growing market needs. On October 26, 2020, AIG announced its intention to separate its Life and Retirement business from AIG. 

 

Picture 128Picture 116Picture 117Picture 150

  
 
 
 General Insurance includes the following major operating companies: National Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, Pa. (National Union); American Home Assurance Company (American Home); Lexington Insurance Company (Lexington); AIG General Insurance Company, Ltd. (AIG Sonpo); AIG Asia Pacific Insurance, Pte, Ltd.; AIG Europe S.A.; American International Group UK Ltd.; Validus Reinsurance, Ltd. (Validus Re); Talbot Holdings Ltd. (Talbot); Western World Insurance Group, Inc. and Glatfelter Insurance Group (Glatfelter).
 Life and Retirement includes the following major operating companies: American General Life Insurance Company (AGL); The Variable Annuity Life Insurance Company (VALIC); The United States Life Insurance Company in the City of New York (U.S. Life); Laya Healthcare Limited and AIG Life Limited.
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Other Operations

 

Other Operations primarily consists of income from assets held by AIG Parent and other corporate subsidiaries, deferred tax assets related to tax attributes, corporate expenses and intercompany eliminations, our institutional asset management business and results of our consolidated investment entities, General Insurance portfolios in run-off previously reported within Legacy as well as the historical results of our legacy insurance lines ceded to Fortitude Reinsurance Company Ltd. (Fortitude Re).
  
 
 
  
  
 

 

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 5


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

Diversified Mix of Businesses

(dollars in millions) 

Chart 1
 

(a) Our Total revenues were $43.7 billion in 2020. The graph above represents Adjusted revenues. For reconciliation of Adjusted revenues to Total revenues see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) General Insurance adjusted revenues is comprised of $10.3 billion and $13.4 billion of Net premiums earned in North America and International, respectively, and $2.9 billion in Net investment income. 

(c) On October 26, 2020, we announced our intention to separate our Life and Retirement business from AIG.

 

Geographic Concentration

In 2020, 5.5 percent of our property casualty direct premiums were written in the state of California, and 15.6 percent and 7.3 percent were written in Japan and the United Kingdom, respectively. No other state or foreign jurisdiction accounted for more than five percent of our property casualty direct premiums.

For further information on our business segments see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

How We Generate Revenues and Profitability

We earn revenues primarily from insurance premiums, policy fees and income from investments. 

Our expenses consist of policyholder benefits and losses incurred, interest credited to policyholders, commissions and other costs of selling and servicing our products, interest expense and general operating expenses.

Our profitability is dependent on our ability to properly price and manage risk on insurance and annuity products, to manage our portfolio of investments effectively and to control costs through expense discipline. 

6 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

Investment Activities of Our Insurance Operations

Our insurance companies generally receive premiums and deposits well in advance of paying covered claims or benefits. In the intervening periods, we invest these premiums and deposits to generate net investment income that, along with the invested funds, is available to pay claims or benefits. As a result, we generate significant revenues from insurance investment activities.

The practice for managing the investments of the insurance companies places primary emphasis on meeting the specific needs of each business unit. The investment objectives are the generation of investment income, preservation of capital, liquidity management and growth of surplus to support the insurance products. The majority of assets backing our insurance liabilities consist of fixed maturity securities issued by corporations, municipalities and other governmental agencies, as well as structured securities collateralized by, among other assets, residential and commercial real estate and commercial mortgage loans.

For additional discussion of investment strategies see Item 7. MD&A – Investments.

Loss Reserve Development Process

The liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses (loss reserves) represents the accumulation of estimates for unpaid claims, including estimates for claims incurred but not reported (IBNR) for our General Insurance companies and the related expenses of settling those losses.

The process of establishing loss reserves is complex and inherently imprecise because it must take into consideration many variables that are subject to the outcome of future events. As a result, informed subjective estimates and judgments about our ultimate exposure to losses are an integral component of our loss reserving process. Because reserve estimates are subject to the outcome of future events, changes in prior year estimates are unavoidable in the insurance industry. These changes are sometimes referred to as “prior year loss development”, “reserve development” or variations thereof.

For further discussion on loss reserves and of prior year loss development see Item 7. MD&A – Critical Accounting Estimates – Insurance Liabilities – Loss Reserves, Item 7. MD&A – Insurance Reserves – Loss Reserves, and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Human Capital Management

We believe that a major strength of AIG is the dedication, commitment and loyalty of our colleagues. AIG’s key human capital management objectives include attracting, developing and retaining the highest quality talent. 

At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 45,000 employees based in over 50 countries, with 42 percent in North America, 40 percent in the Asia Pacific region and the remaining 18 percent in the EMEA region, United Kingdom and Latin America.

To improve our employee experience and assess the health of our organization, we periodically undertake cultural and employee engagement surveys. In August 2019, AIG conducted an Organizational Health Index survey, which was responded to by approximately 80 percent of our workforce and which covered topics across multiple dimensions, including leadership, business operations and effectiveness, diversity, equity and inclusion and customer focus. In response to this feedback, our colleagues’ ideas and suggestions have been applied across AIG and informed the development of the AIG 200 operational programs. In January 2021, we launched our second Organizational Health Index survey to give our colleagues another opportunity to share their insights, gather input on how AIG has progressed over the past year and continue to help make AIG a more rewarding place to work.

We believe that we foster a constructive and healthy work environment for our employees and colleagues. Some examples of key programs and initiatives that are designed to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include:

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 7


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

Competitive Compensation and Benefits. Under the oversight of the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of our Board of Directors, we seek to align the compensation of our employees with AIG’s overall performance and provide competitive compensation opportunities to attract and retain highly skilled employees for our various business needs. Both management and the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of our Board of Directors engage the services of third-party compensation consultants and advisors to help us monitor the market competitiveness of our incentive programs. We provide a performance-driven compensation structure that consists of base salary, short- and long-term incentive. We also offer comprehensive benefits to support the health and wellness needs of our colleagues, including subsidized health care plans, life insurance and disability, wellness and mental health benefits, liberal paid time off and parental leave policies and matching 401(k) contributions.

Health and Safety. AIG cares about the health and safety of its employees. In response to the COVID-19 crisis, we quickly and effectively transitioned 90 percent of our employees to remote work and established a cross-functional COVID-19 Task Force to ensure that AIG implemented best practices to protect the safety of colleagues while continuing to serve clients, distribution partners and other stakeholders. The COVID-19 Task Force is also responsible for our return-to-office planning, which is informed by a Return to Workplace survey recently completed by our employees.

Through our Employee Assistance Program, AIG provides employees with mental health resources, including counseling sessions and webinars. AIG also funded a pandemic financial assistance program developed to provide financial assistance to employees in the form of low or no-interest loans. Further, in December 2020, we launched our Compassionate Colleagues Fund to aid employees in overcoming serious financial hardships, with an initial contribution of $2 million by AIG. Since then voluntary contributions by employees have grown the size of the fund designed to help their fellow colleagues. 

Career Development. AIG has developed numerous programs to foster leadership, growth and development opportunities for our employees. We believe that professional development is a positive investment in our talent. Our goal is to build skills of our employees by providing ample opportunities to access learning and development that enhances their abilities to perform in their current or future roles. As such, AIG makes available a library of on-demand learning options, combined with immersive learning experiences to build skills at all levels. In addition, we offer tuition and certification and training reimbursement programs to encourage employees to enhance their education, skills and knowledge for their continued growth. 

Our management places significant importance and attention on promoting internal talent and succession planning. Accordingly, we review our talent development and succession plans for each of our functions and operating segments annually, to identify and develop a pipeline of diverse talent for positions at all levels of the organization. In 2020, 27 percent of all our open positions were filled with internal talent.

Diversity and Inclusion. AIG is committed to creating an inclusive workplace focused on attracting, retaining and developing diverse talent that fosters a culture of belonging for all employees. To that end, each member of the executive leadership team has a diversity, equity and inclusion objective embedded in their individual performance goals tied to their annual short-term incentive awards. In September 2020, AIG established an Executive Diversity Council, tasked with monitoring diversity, equity and inclusion initiatives as an integral part of AIG’s business strategies. In addition, in October 2020, AIG appointed a new Chief Diversity Officer to coordinate the Company’s efforts in creating meaningful strides as it relates to diversity, equity and inclusion. Management periodically reports to the Compensation and Management Resources Committee of our Board of Directors on initiatives and progress on various human capital management initiatives and metrics, including diversity, equity and inclusion.

AIG sponsors over 130 Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are groups of employees who come together based on a shared interest in a specific dimension of diversity. AIG’s global ERG network spans 13 different dimensions of diversity and is open to all employees. The ERGs are a cornerstone of our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. Our ERGs represent and support our diverse workforce, facilitate networking and connections with peers, and create a culture of inclusion and engagement within AIG. In 2020, more than 17,000 global colleagues participated in Courageous Conversations, a training program about unconscious bias and systemic racism.

In addition, AIG has developed three leadership programs targeted at our diverse talent pool. AIG’s Women’s Executive Leadership Initiative and the Executive Men’s Development Initiative (for men of color) seek to hone executive leadership skills of high-potential employees. Our Accelerated Leadership Development program matches mid-level men and women of color in AIG’s leadership pipeline with senior executive mentors and coaches them on essential senior management and executive leadership skills.

8 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

Regulation

OVERVIEW

Our operations around the world are subject to regulation by many different types of regulatory authorities, including insurance, securities, derivatives, investment advisory and thrift regulators in the United States and abroad. The insurance and financial services industries are generally subject to close regulatory scrutiny and supervision.

Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and jurisdictions in which they do business. We expect that the domestic and international regulations applicable to us and our regulated entities will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future.

In particular, significant legislative and regulatory activity has occurred at both the U.S. federal and state levels, as well as globally, in response to COVID-19 and its impact on insurance consumers. For example, many jurisdictions have issued regulations and guidance advising or requiring insurers to offer accommodations to policyholders adversely impacted by COVID-19, including requirements to defer payment of, or refund, premiums, postpone policy lapses, and have sought information and data from insurers on a number of topics, including operational preparedness, policyholder data, claims data, and other matters. While some of these legislative and regulatory initiatives have expired, resurgence of the COVID-19 virus may lead to a renewal of those initiatives. A number of U.S. states have also passed legislation or issued other guidance that creates a presumption of coverage under workers’ compensation insurance for certain people impacted by COVID-19. In most cases, the presumption applies to first responders and medical professionals, but some states apply the scope of the presumption more broadly, and efforts are underway in other states to further expand the scope of the presumption. Members of the U.S. Congress have held discussions and sought information with respect to business interruption, travel and other insurance lines impacted by the COVID-19 crisis and legislators both in the U.S. and overseas are discussing a number of potential loss-sharing programs, some of which contemplate participation by insurers, including a proposed pandemic risk insurance bill relating to business interruption and event cancellation insurance. In the EU and UK, insurance regulators have issued recommendations or requirements for insurance groups subject to their jurisdiction to temporarily suspend discretionary dividend payments and share buybacks for the benefit of shareholders, and variable remuneration policies such as cash bonuses. We cannot predict what form legal and regulatory responses to concerns about COVID-19 and related public health issues will take, or how such responses will impact our business. We continue to actively monitor these developments and to cooperate fully with all government and regulatory authorities as they develop their responses. 

In addition to the information set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our regulatory status is also discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors – COVID-19 is adversely affecting, and is expected to continue to adversely affect, our global business, financial condition and results of operations, and its ultimate impact will depend on future developments that are uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope, severity and duration of the crisis, and the governmental, legislative and regulatory actions taken and court decisions rendered in response thereto.

U.S. REGULATION

Dodd-Frank

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank), which brought about extensive changes to financial regulation in the United States, was signed into law. On July 8, 2013, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (Council) made a determination that material financial distress at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability. On September 29, 2017, the Council rescinded its determination that material financial distress at AIG could pose a threat to U.S. financial stability and as a result, AIG is no longer designated as a nonbank systemically important financial institution (nonbank SIFI). With the rescission of its designation as a nonbank SIFI, AIG is no longer subject to the consolidated supervision of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) or subject to the enhanced prudential standards set forth in Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations. Although the Council has rescinded its designation of AIG as a nonbank SIFI, certain provisions of Dodd-Frank remain relevant to insurance groups generally.

 The Council has authority to determine, subject to certain statutory and regulatory standards, that any nonbank financial company be designated as a nonbank SIFI subject to supervision by the FRB and enhanced prudential standards. The Council may also recommend that state insurance regulators or other regulators apply new or heightened standards and safeguards for activities or practices that nonbank financial services companies, including insurers, engage in. 

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 9


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

 Title II of Dodd-Frank (Orderly Liquidation Authority) provides that a financial company whose largest United States subsidiary is an insurer may be subject to a special orderly liquidation process outside the Bankruptcy Code. That process is to be administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation upon a determination that the company is: (i) in default or in danger of default, (ii) would have serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability were it to fail and be resolved, (iii) is not likely to attract private sector alternatives to default and (iv) is not suitable for resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. Dodd-Frank authorizes possible assessments to cover the costs of any special resolution of a financial company conducted under Title II. U.S. insurance subsidiaries of any such financial company, however, would be subject to rehabilitation and liquidation proceedings under state insurance law. 

 Title VII of Dodd-Frank provides for significantly increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions that have affected and, as additional regulations come into effect, could affect various activities of insurance and other financial services companies, including (i) regulatory reporting for swaps and security-based swaps, (ii) mandated clearing through central counterparties and execution through regulated swap execution facilities for certain swaps and security-based swaps and (iii) margin and collateral requirements. Although the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), which oversees and regulates the U.S. swap, commodities and futures markets, has finalized most of its requirements, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has yet to finalize the majority of rules comprising its security-based swap regulatory regime. Increased regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions could increase the cost of our trading and hedging activities, reduce liquidity and reduce the availability of customized hedging solutions and derivatives.

 Dodd-Frank mandated a study to determine whether stable value contracts should be included in the definition of "swap." If that study concludes that stable value contracts are swaps, Dodd-Frank authorizes certain federal regulators to determine whether an exemption from the definition of a swap for stable value contracts is appropriate and in the public interest. Certain of our affiliates participate in the stable value contract business. We cannot predict what regulations might emanate from the aforementioned study or be promulgated applicable to this business in the future.

 Title V of Dodd-Frank authorizes the United States to enter into covered agreements with foreign governments or regulatory entities regarding the business of insurance and reinsurance. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. and the European Union (EU) entered into such an agreement, and on December 18, 2018, the U.S. signed a covered agreement with the United Kingdom (UK) in anticipation of the UK’s withdrawal of its membership in the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. For additional information, see – International Regulation.

 Dodd-Frank established the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (BCFP), an independent agency within the FRB, to regulate certain non-insurance consumer financial products and services offered primarily for personal, family or household purposes. Insurance products and services are not within the BCFP's general jurisdiction. Broker-dealers and investment advisers are not subject to the BCFP's jurisdiction when acting in their registered capacity. 

 Dodd-Frank established the Federal Insurance Office (FIO) to serve as the central insurance authority in the federal government. While not serving a regulatory function, FIO performs certain duties related to the business of insurance. FIO serves as a non-voting member of the Council, has authority to collect information on the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards, monitors market access issues, represents the United States in international insurance forums, has authority to determine, after consulting with the relevant State and the United States Trade Representative, if certain regulations are preempted by covered agreements, and assists the Secretary of the Treasury in administering the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program under the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002.

On February 3, 2017, the President of the United States signed an Executive Order that directed the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with federal financial regulators, to assess all laws, rules and policies that regulate the U.S. financial system, including requirements put into place under Dodd-Frank since 2010, and to recommend necessary changes to make sure they conform to certain core principles. Treasury divided its review into four parts and published four reports: Banks and Credit Unions (June 12, 2017), Capital Markets (October 6, 2017), Asset Management and Insurance (October 26, 2017) and Nonbank Financials, Fintech and Innovation (July 31, 2018). In its report on insurance regulation, Treasury identified several areas for improvement at the federal and state levels and defined the role it intends for federal agencies. Among the points made in the report: 

 Treasury expressed support for an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk in the insurance industry rather than designating individual entities as nonbank SIFIs; 

 Treasury recommended continued U.S. engagement in international standard-setting forums and charged FIO with coordinating the efforts of the federal government, state regulators, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), and other stakeholders on the issues within its scope, such as covered agreements, matters related to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, and standard-setting at the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS), including discussions regarding capital and liquidity requirements; 

 Treasury expressed support for robust liquidity risk management programs for insurers and encouraged regulators to continue work on addressing potential liquidity risk in the insurance sector; and 

10 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

 Treasury supported the Department of Labor (the DOL) in delaying full implementation of the final fiduciary rule issued by the DOL in April 2016 (the DOL Fiduciary Rule) until relevant issues were further evaluated and addressed by the DOL, SEC, and state insurance regulators working together. The DOL Fiduciary Rule was subsequently vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. For additional information regarding legislative and regulatory developments surrounding a standard of care for the sale of investment products and services, see – ERISA and – Standard of Care Developments below. 

In addition, on April 21, 2017 the President of the United States directed the Secretary of the Treasury to evaluate and provide recommendations regarding the Council’s processes for designating nonbank SIFIs. The Treasury published a report pursuant to this directive on November 17, 2017, recommending that the Council prioritize an activities-based approach to regulating systemic risk rather than designating individual entities, and recommending that the Council increase the analytical rigor of its designation analyses, enhance engagement with relevant regulators and transparency to the public, and provide a clear off-ramp to designated nonbank SIFIs. On December 4, 2019, the Council finalized amendments to its guidance on nonbank financial company designations. The new guidance prioritizes an activities-based approach to monitoring and addressing potential systemic risk, and indicates that the Council will pursue entity-specific nonbank SIFI designations only if a potential risk or threat cannot be adequately addressed through an activities-based approach. The guidance became effective on January 29, 2020. We will continue to monitor developments resulting from these changes.

Insurance Regulation

Certain states and other jurisdictions require registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the (re)insurance subsidiary, within the holding company system. This legislation also requires any person or entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10 percent) of our outstanding voting securities to obtain regulatory approval prior to such purchase. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those jurisdictions that have such requirements. 

Our U.S. (re)insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by the states and other jurisdictions in which they do business. The method of such regulation varies but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory and supervisory powers to a state insurance official. The regulation and supervision relate primarily to the financial condition of the insurers and their corporate conduct and market conduct activities. This includes approval of policy forms and rates, the standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, including with respect to risk-based capital, the standards on transactions between (re)insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates, including restrictions and limitations on the amount of dividends or other distributions payable by (re)insurance company subsidiaries to their parent companies, the licensing of insurers and their agents, restrictions on the size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, requirements for acceptability of reinsurers, periodic examinations of the affairs of (re)insurance companies, the form and content of reports of financial condition required to be filed, reserves for unearned premiums, losses and other purposes and enterprise risk management and corporate governance requirements. Our (re)insurance subsidiaries are also subject to requirements on investments, which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments they can make. In general, such regulation is for the protection of policyholders rather than the creditors or equity owners of these companies. 

U.S. states have state insurance guaranty associations in which insurers doing business in the state are required by law to be members. Member insurers may be assessed by the associations for certain obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. Typically, states assess member insurers in amounts related to the member’s proportionate share of the relevant type of business written by all members in the state. The protection afforded by a state’s guaranty association to policyholders of insolvent insurers varies from state to state.

In the U.S., the NAIC is a standard-setting and regulatory support organization created and governed by the chief insurance regulators from the 50 states, the District of Columbia and five U.S. territories. The NAIC itself is not a regulator, but, with assistance from the NAIC, state insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer review and coordinate regulatory oversight. Every state has adopted, in substantial part, the Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Model Law promulgated by the NAIC or a substantially similar law, which allows states to act upon the results of RBC calculations, and provides four incremental levels of regulatory action regarding insurers whose RBC calculations fall below specific thresholds. Those levels of action range from the requirement to submit a plan describing how an insurer would regain a specified RBC ratio to a mandatory regulatory takeover of the company. The RBC formula is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer’s statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business and computes a risk-adjusted surplus level by applying discrete factors to various asset, premium, reserve and other financial statement items, or in the case of interest rate and equity return (C-3) market risk, applying stochastic scenario analyses. These factors are developed to be risk-sensitive so that higher RBC requirements are applied to items exposed to greater risk. The

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 11


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

statutory surplus of each of our U.S. based (re)insurance companies exceeded RBC minimum required levels as of December 31, 2020.

If any of our (re)insurance entities fell below prescribed levels of statutory surplus, it would be our intention to provide appropriate capital or other types of support to that entity. For additional information, see Item 7. MD&A – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Liquidity and Capital Resources of AIG Parent and Subsidiaries – Insurance Companies.

The NAIC’s Model Regulation “Valuation of Life Insurance Policies” (Regulation XXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees (ULSGs). NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (Guideline AXXX) clarifies the application of Regulation XXX as to these guarantees, including certain ULSGs. In December 2012, the NAIC approved a new Valuation Manual (VM) containing a principle-based approach to life insurance company reserves. Principle-based reserving (PBR) is designed to tailor the reserving process to more closely reflect the risks of specific products, rather than the factor-based approach typically employed historically. The VM became effective on January 1, 2017, after revisions to the NAIC’s model Standard Valuation Law were enacted by the requisite number of states, representing the required premium volume. Variable Annuity (VA) reserving requirements are contained in subsection 21 of the VM (VM-21), and replace the previous Actuarial Guideline XLIII (AG 43) requirements, which also employed a principle-based approach. Substantial revisions to VM-21 have been adopted effective January 1, 2020, with options for early adoption or phased-in adoption. We have not elected either of these adoptions, and instead have applied VM-21 in full, effective January 1, 2020, to both new and existing VA business. VM-21 is also referred to as “VA PBR”. Subsection 20 of the Valuation Manual (VM-20) applies to individual life insurance reserves, most notably term insurance and universal life with secondary guarantees (ULSG). VM-20 is also referred to as “Life PBR”, and replaces Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX for new life insurance business issued after January 1, 2017. As permitted by applicable regulations, we deferred implementation of Life PBR until January 1, 2020, and have implemented it as of such date with respect to relevant policies issued on or after January 1, 2020. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for risk and additional information related to these statutory reserving requirements.

The NAIC’s Insurance Holding Company System Regulatory Act (the Model Holding Company Act) and the Insurance Holding Company System Model Regulation include (i) provisions authorizing NAIC commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups and participate in international supervisory colleges, and (ii) the requirement that the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer file an annual enterprise risk report with its lead state regulator identifying risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of its licensed insurers or the insurance holding company system as a whole. All of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the revised Model Holding Company Act, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement.

The NAIC’s Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (ORSA) requires that insurers maintain a risk management framework and conduct an internal own risk and solvency assessment of the insurer’s material risks in normal and stressed environments. All of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of ORSA. The NAIC has also adopted a Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act (CGAD) that requires insurers to submit an annual filing regarding their corporate governance structure, policies and practices. All of the states where AIG has domestic insurers have enacted a version of the CGAD. 

ERISA 

We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and/or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Internal Revenue Code). Plans subject to ERISA include certain pension and profit sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans. As a result, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the DOL, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.

Standard of Care Developments

In our Life and Retirement business, we and our distributors are subject to laws and regulations regarding the standard of care applicable to sales of our products and the provision of advice to our customers. In recent years, many of these laws and regulations have been revised or reexamined while others have been newly adopted. We continue to closely follow these legislative and regulatory activities. Changes in standard of care requirements or new standards issued by governmental authorities, such as the DOL, the SEC, the NAIC or state regulators and/or legislators, may affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition.

12 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

DOL Fiduciary Rule

In June 2020, the DOL issued final guidance consistent with the June 2018 decision of the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals which vacated the DOL’s Fiduciary Rule that redefined who would be considered a “fiduciary” for purposes of transactions with ERISA qualified plans, related plan participants and Individual Retirement Accounts. The DOL’s final guidance formally reinstated the previous five-part test for determining who is an investment advice fiduciary, and also reinstated related exemptions which had been modified by the vacated guidance. In December 2020, the DOL issued the final version of a new prohibited transaction exemption, for parties that qualify as investment advice fiduciaries, which is intended to broadly align with the SEC’s Best Interest Regulation (discussed under “SEC Best Interest Regulation” below) as well as other relevant standards of care requirements. The terms of the DOL’s exemption impose impartial conduct standards (including a best interest standard), as well as: 

 disclosure obligations, 

 a duty to establish, maintain, and follow policies and procedures intended to comply with the exemption, and 

 a duty to perform an annual retrospective review for compliance with the exemption. 

We have reviewed the final DOL exemption and associated preamble, both for applicability and for the impact the exemption may have on our businesses and operations, including the scope of any applicable fiduciary status and duties. As a general matter, where fiduciary status would be applicable, we would expect to be able to utilize the processes and procedures we implemented for the SEC’s Best Interest Regulation to satisfy some or all of the corresponding provisions in the DOL guidance. Nevertheless, implementation may still result in increased compliance obligations and costs for certain of our Life and Retirement businesses. 

SEC Best Interest Regulation 

On June 30, 2020, Regulation Best Interest (Regulation BI), which establishes new rules regarding the standard of care a broker must meet when making a recommendation to a retail customer in connection with the sale of a security or other covered recommendation, and Form CRS, which requires enhanced disclosure by broker-dealers and investment advisers regarding client relationships and certain conflicts of interest issues, became effective. Both had been adopted by the SEC in June 2019 as part of a package of final rulemakings and interpretations, at the same time as the SEC issued two interpretations under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The first interpretation addressed the standard of conduct applicable to SEC-registered investment advisers, including details regarding the fiduciary duty owed to clients, required disclosures and the adviser’s continuous monitoring obligations. The second interpretation clarified when investment advice would be considered “solely incidental” to brokerage activity for purposes of the broker-dealer exclusion from SEC investment adviser registration. These two SEC interpretations became final upon publication. The SEC has also issued multiple sets of FAQs on certain aspects of Regulation BI and Form CRS, and the SEC could provide additional guidance regarding these final rules and further clarify its interpretations through the issuance of additional FAQs and other publications. 

We have evaluated the impact of the package of final rulemakings and interpretations on us and our customers, distribution partners and financial advisers, and have implemented and enhanced processes and procedures, where needed, to comply with the final rules and interpretations. These efforts and enhancements have resulted in increased compliance costs primarily for Group Retirement.

State Developments

In February 2020, the NAIC adopted revisions to its Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation (#275) (NAIC Model) implementing a best interest standard of care applicable to sales and recommendations of annuities. The new NAIC Model conforms in large part to Regulation BI, providing that all recommendations by agents and insurers must be in the best interest of the consumer under known circumstances at the time an annuity recommendation is made, without placing agents’ or insurers’ financial interests ahead of the consumers’ interest in making a recommendation. Specifically, the model requires agents and carriers to act with “reasonable diligence, care and skill” in making recommendations. The revisions also include enhancements to the current model’s supervision system to assist in compliance. Certain states have already adopted amendments to their suitability rules based on the NAIC Model revisions, and we expect that additional states will do so. We are closely monitoring these developments, including state-level variations from the NAIC Model. We are also implementing and enhancing processes and procedures, where needed, designed to comply with the NAIC Model and state-specific revisions.

In addition, certain state insurance and/or securities regulators and legislatures have adopted, or are considering adoption of, their own best interest or fiduciary standards, some of which are broader in scope than the NAIC Model. For example, in July 2018, the New York State Department of Financial Services adopted a best interest standard of care regulation applicable to annuity and life transactions through issuance of the First Amendment to Insurance Regulation 187 – Suitability and Best Interests in Life Insurance and Annuity Transactions (Regulation 187). The compliance date for Regulation 187 was August 1, 2019 for annuity products and was February 1, 2020 for life products. As amended, Regulation 187 requires producers to act in their client’s best interest when making point-of-sale and in-force recommendations, and provide in writing the basis for the recommendation, as well as the facts and analysis to support the recommendation. The amended regulation also imposes additional duties on life insurance companies in

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 13


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

relation to these transactions, such as requiring insurers to establish and maintain procedures designed to prevent financial exploitation and abuse. We have implemented and enhanced processes and procedures, where needed, designed to comply with this regulation.

Besides New York, other states have also adopted, or are considering adopting, legislative and/or regulatory proposals involving best interest or fiduciary duty standards with applicability to insurance producers, agents, financial advisors, investment advisers, broker-dealers and/or insurance companies. While many of them generally impose (or would impose) a best interest standard, not unlike the standard in Regulation BI and the NAIC Model, the proposals also reflect a variation of fiduciary and non-fiduciary standards, and they vary in scope, applicability and timing of implementation. We are closely monitoring these developments and evaluating their potential impacts on our products and services, our customers, distribution partners and financial advisors, and the life and retirement industry overall in the U.S.

SECURE Act

On December 20, 2019 the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement (SECURE) Act was signed into law as part of larger federal appropriations legislation. The SECURE Act includes many provisions affecting qualified contracts, some of which became effective upon enactment on January 1, 2020 or later, and some of which were retroactively effective. Some of the SECURE Act provisions that became effective on January 1, 2020, include, without limitation: an increase in the age at which required minimum distributions generally must commence, to age 72, from the previous age of 70 ½; new limitations on the period for beneficiary distributions following the death of the plan participant or individual retirement account (IRA) owner; elimination of the age 70 ½ restriction on IRA contributions (combined with an offset to the amount of eligible qualified charitable distributions by the amount of post-70 ½ IRA contributions); a new exception to the 10 percent additional tax on early distributions for the birth or adoption of a child, which also became an allowable plan distribution event; and, reduction of the earliest permissible age for in-service distributions from pension plans and certain Section 457 plans to 59 ½. Some of the changes in law made by the SECURE Act are complex and still require further regulatory guidance. We have implemented new processes and procedures, where needed, designed to comply with the new requirements.

CARES Act

On March 27, 2020, the U.S. enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act to mitigate the economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis. This legislation contains multiple provisions, including some that provide greater access to assets held in tax-qualified retirement plans and IRAs for qualifying individuals, which have relevance to the products and services offered by Individual Retirement and Group Retirement. The relief provided in the CARES Act includes, among others, temporary liberalization of access to distributions and loans, and loan repayment suspension, for eligible individuals in many defined contribution retirement plans; a waiver of the 10% additional tax on qualifying distributions which otherwise applies to early distributions (generally, prior to age 59 ½) from retirement plans and IRAs; and a temporary waiver of required minimum distributions due to be taken in 2020 from retirement plans and IRAs. We implemented an array of forms, processes and procedures to assist in making these provisions available to plan sponsors, plan participants and IRA owners. All of these temporary provisions expired by the end of 2020. Any additional liberalization would require enactment of new legislation.

COVID-19 Relief Legislation

On December 21, 2020, the House and Senate passed the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the Act), which was signed into law on December 27, 2020, to further mitigate the economic impacts of the COVID-19 crisis. The Act contains multiple provisions, including some that impact retirement plans and other that update the fixed interest rate assumptions used to qualify life insurance policies, which have relevance to the products and services offered by Life Insurance, Individual Retirement and Group Retirement. At this time, we cannot predict what or the extent of the impact the provisions of the Act will ultimately have on our Life and Retirement businesses.

Securities, Investment Adviser, Broker-Dealer and Investment Company Regulation

Our investment products and services are subject to applicable federal and state securities, fiduciary, including ERISA, and other laws and regulations. The principal U.S. regulators of these operations include the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), CFTC, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, state securities commissions, state insurance departments and the DOL

Our variable life insurance, variable annuity and mutual fund products generally are subject to regulation as “securities” under applicable federal securities laws, except where exempt. Such regulation includes registration of the offerings of these products with the SEC, as well as recordkeeping, reporting, and other requirements. This regulation also involves the registration of mutual funds and other investment products offered by our businesses, and the separate accounts through which our variable life insurance and variable annuity products are issued, as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (Investment Company Act), except where exempt. The Investment Company Act imposes requirements relating to compliance, corporate

14 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

governance, disclosure, recordkeeping, registration and other matters. In addition, the offering of these products may involve filing and other requirements under the securities laws of the states and other jurisdictions where offered, including the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. Our separate account investment products are also subject to applicable state insurance regulation. 

We have several subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) and are members of FINRA, and/or are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (Advisers Act). In addition to registration requirements, the Exchange Act, the Advisers Act, and the regulations thereunder, impose various compliance, disclosure, qualification, recordkeeping, reporting and other requirements on these subsidiaries and their operations. Broker-dealers and investment advisers, and their licensed representatives, are also subject to standard of care obligations. See – Standard of Care Developments above. State securities laws also impose filing and other requirements on broker-dealers, investment advisers and/or their licensed representatives, except where exempt. The SEC, FINRA and other governmental regulatory bodies also have the authority to examine regulated entities, such as our broker-dealer and investment adviser subsidiaries, and to institute administrative or judicial proceedings that may result in censure, fines, prohibitions or restrictions on activities, or other administrative sanctions.

Further, our licensed sales professionals appointed with our broker-dealer and/or investment adviser subsidiaries and our other employees, insofar as they sell products that are securities, including wholesale and retail activity, are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissioners. Regulation and examination requirements also extend to our subsidiaries that employ or control those individuals.

Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity

We are subject to U.S. laws and regulations that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect personal and other sensitive information and provide notice of their practices relating to the collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information. We also are subject to U.S. laws and regulations requiring notification to affected individuals and regulators of security breaches. Below we highlight a few, key, recently-enacted regulations.

On March 1, 2019, the NYDFS cybersecurity regulation became fully effective, requiring covered financial services institutions to implement a cybersecurity program designed to protect information systems. The regulation imposes specific technical safeguards as well as governance, risk assessment, monitoring and testing, third-party service provider incident response and reporting and other requirements. AIG companies covered by the regulation annually file certifications of compliance. Requirements under the NYDFS’ cybersecurity regulation are similar in many, but not all, respects to those under the NAIC Model Law, as described below.

In October 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law (NAIC Model Law), which would require insurers, insurance producers and other entities required to be licensed under state insurance laws to develop and maintain a written information security program, conduct risk assessments, oversee the data security practices of third-party service providers and other related requirements. Legislation based on the NAIC Model Law has been enacted in eleven states and may be enacted in other states. 

Effective January 1, 2020, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA). The CCPA contains a number of new requirements regarding the personal information of California consumers as defined by the statute, including new individual rights and mandatory disclosures regarding consumers’ personal information. The statute also establishes a private right of action in some cases if consumers’ personal information is subject to a data breach as a result of a business’ failure to implement and maintain reasonable security practices.

For information on privacy, data protection and cybersecurity regulation in the EU and other international jurisdictions, see International Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity. 

Thrift Regulator

AIG Federal Savings Bank, our trust-only federal thrift subsidiary, is supervised and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

INTERNATIONAL REGULATION

Insurance and Financial Services Regulation

A substantial portion of our business is conducted in foreign countries. The degree of regulation and supervision in foreign jurisdictions varies. Generally, our subsidiaries operating in foreign jurisdictions must satisfy local regulatory requirements; licenses issued by foreign authorities to our subsidiaries are subject to modification or revocation by such authorities, and therefore these subsidiaries could be prevented from conducting business in certain of the jurisdictions where they currently operate. 

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 15


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

Certain jurisdictions require registration and periodic reporting by (re)insurance companies that are licensed in such jurisdictions and are controlled by other entities. Applicable legislation typically requires periodic disclosure concerning the entity that controls the registered insurer and the other companies in the holding company system and prior approval of intercompany transactions and transfers of assets, including in some instances payment of dividends by the (re)insurance subsidiary within the holding company system. Our subsidiaries are registered under such legislation in those jurisdictions that have such requirements.

In addition to these licensing and other requirements, our foreign operations are also regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to currency, policy language and terms, advertising, amount and type of security deposits, amount and type of reserves, amount and type of capital to be held, amount and type of local investment and the share of profits to be returned to policyholders on participating policies. Our foreign operations are subject to local tax laws and regulations as well. Some foreign countries regulate rates on various types of policies. Certain countries have established reinsurance institutions, wholly or partially owned by the local government, to which admitted insurers are obligated to cede a portion of their business on terms that may not always allow foreign insurers, including our subsidiaries, full compensation. In some countries, regulations governing constitution of technical reserves and remittance balances may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets. 

Legislation in the EU could also affect our international (re)insurance operations. The EU issues Directives and Regulations on a wide range of topics that impact financial services. Insurance companies operating in the EU are subject to the Solvency II framework. The Prudential Regulation Authority, the United Kingdom’s (UK’s) prudential regulator, is the lead prudential supervisor for our new UK entity, American International Group UK Limited (AIG UK). The UK’s Financial Conduct Authority has oversight of AIG UK for consumer protection and competition matters. For example, we are subject to the UK’s Senior Managers and Certification Regime (SMCR), legislation that is intended to reduce harm to consumers and strengthen market integrity by making senior individuals more accountable for their conduct and competence. The SMCR comprises 3 elements: the Senior Managers Regime, which requires that firms appoint an individual with responsibility for each senior management function and subjects such individuals to regulatory pre-approval; the Certification Regime, which requires firms to certify (on an on-going basis) the fitness and propriety of certain employees who could harm the firm, its customers or the market; and the Conduct Rules, which are high-level standards of behavior expected of those working in financial services.

The Luxembourg insurance regulator, the Commissariat aux Assurances, is the insurance regulator for AIG Europe SA, which serves our European Economic Area (EEA) and Swiss policyholders. For information on the UK’s withdrawal of its membership in the EU, see – Brexit. In addition, financial companies that operate in the EU are subject to a range of regulations enforced by the national regulators in each member state in which that firm operates. The EU has also established a set of regulatory requirements under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) that include, among other things, risk mitigation, risk management, regulatory reporting and clearing requirements. Solvency II governs the insurance industry’s solvency framework for the EU, including minimum capital and solvency requirements, governance requirements, risk management and public reporting standards. In accordance with Solvency II, the European Commission is required to make a determination as to whether a supervisory regime outside of the EU is “equivalent.” 

On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, on behalf of the U.S., and the EU signed the bilateral Covered Agreement, which is intended to address issues regarding the application of Solvency II requirements to U.S.-based insurance groups as well as other (re)insurance regulatory issues. Certain aspects of the agreement remain subject to an implementation timetable in the U.S. and the EU, which may delay or even prevent the agreement from being fully implemented. In particular, the U.S. states have been given a period of five years to comply with the agreement’s reinsurance collateral provisions. After 42 months, FIO must begin evaluating a potential preemption determination with respect to any state law not in compliance with the aim of assuring full compliance within the five-year timeframe. The agreement may be terminated (following mandatory consultation) by notice from one party to the other effective in 180 days, or at such time as the parties may agree.

Under the agreement, AIG will be supervised at the worldwide group level only by its relevant U.S. insurance supervisors, and will not have to satisfy EU Solvency II group capital, reporting and governance requirements for its worldwide group. The agreement, however, would permit the imposition of EU Solvency II group capital requirements if, after five years from the signing of the agreement, a U.S. insurer is not subject to a group capital assessment by its applicable state regulator. The NAIC is in the process of developing a group capital calculation that, if adopted by the states within the five-year time period, is expected to satisfy this condition. The agreement further provides that if the summary risk reports submitted to the supervisory authority of a host jurisdiction expose any serious threat to policyholder protection or financial stability in such host state, the host supervisor may request further information from the insurance group and/or impose preventive or corrective measures with respect to the (re)insurer in its jurisdiction. The agreement also seeks to impose equal treatment of U.S. and EU-based reinsurers that meet certain qualifications. In the U.S., once fully implemented, the agreement requires U.S. states to lift reinsurance collateral requirements on qualifying EU-based reinsurers and provide them equal treatment with U.S. reinsurers or be subject to federal preemption. While this provision does not preclude AIG from continuing to request collateral from an EU reinsurer that is party to a bilateral reinsurance transaction, it is unclear how much collateral AIG will be able to obtain from EU reinsurers going forward.

16 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative signed the Bilateral Agreement between the U.S. and the UK on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance. The terms of the agreement are substantially similar to the U.S.-EU Covered Agreement. The agreement has been entered into in order to maintain regulatory certainty and market continuity in connection with the UK’s exit from the EU. The agreement is still subject to U.S. and UK internal requirements and procedures. In addition, the agreement notes with respect to the date of entry into force that the UK must take into account its obligations arising in respect of any agreement between the EU and the UK pursuant to Article 50 of the Treaty on European Union, which sets out the process under which an EU member state may withdraw from the EU.

The Bermuda Monetary Authority (the BMA) regulates AIG’s operating (re)insurance subsidiaries in Bermuda. The Insurance Act 1978 and its related regulations, as enforced by the BMA, impose a variety of requirements and restrictions on our Bermuda operating (re)insurance subsidiaries including: the filing of annual statutory financial returns; the filing of annual GAAP financial statements for commercial (re)insurers; compliance with minimum enhanced capital requirements; compliance with the BMA’s Insurance Code of Conduct; compliance with minimum solvency margins and liquidity ratios (the latter for general business (re)insurers); limitations on dividends and distributions; preparation of an annual Financial Condition Report for commercial (re)insurers providing details of measures governing the business operations, corporate governance framework, solvency and financial performance; and restrictions on certain changes in control of regulated (re)insurers.

The Registrar of Companies (the ROC) regulates the compliance by AIG’s entities in Bermuda which carry on a Relevant Activity, as defined in Bermuda’s Economic Substance Act 2018 and related Economic Substance Regulations 2018 (as amended, the ES Laws). The purpose of the ES Laws is to ensure that Bermuda does not facilitate the use of structures which attract profits but which do not reflect real economic activity that is being undertaken in Bermuda. The ROC imposes the filing of an annual declaration form demonstrating compliance with the requirements of the ES Laws by entities which carry on a Relevant Activity.

The Japan Financial Services Agency (JFSA) regulates AIG’s operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries in Japan. The JFSA has extensive authority under the Insurance Business Act and related regulations to oversee company licensing, sales practices, business conduct, investments, reserves and solvency, among other items. Our Japanese insurance and reinsurance operations are required to maintain a minimum solvency margin ratio (SMR), which is a measure of capital adequacy. The failure to maintain an appropriate SMR, or comply with other similar indicators of financial health, could result in the JFSA imposing corrective actions on our operations. 

Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity

The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) took effect in May 2018. The GDPR aims to introduce consistent data protection rules across the EU, and its scope extends to entities established within the EEA (i.e., EU member states plus Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) and also extends to certain entities not established in the EEA (in certain instances, if they solicit or target individuals in the EU to offer goods or services to EEA data subjects or monitor personal behavior of EEA data subjects (e.g., in an online context)).

We have sought to address these new requirements regarding the processing of personal data about individuals, including mandatory security breach reporting, new and strengthened individual rights, evidenced data controller accountability for compliance with the GDPR principles (including fairness and transparency), maintenance of data processing activity records and the implementation of “privacy by design”, including through the completion of mandatory Data Protection Impact Assessments in connection with higher risk data processing activities. Sanctions for non-compliance with the GDPR are more onerous than the previous regulatory regime with the potential for fines of up to 4 percent of global revenue for the most serious infringements.

We also are subject to other international laws and regulations that require financial institutions and other businesses to protect personal and other sensitive information and provide notice of their practices relating to the collection, disclosure and other processing of personal information and to obtain consent pertaining to such processing. We are also subject to laws and regulations requiring notification to affected individuals and regulators of security breaches. In addition, we must comply with laws and regulations regarding data localization and the cross-border transfer of information, an example of which is described below.

On July 16, 2020, the European Court of Justice (Court) ruled that the protection provided by the EU-U.S. privacy shield with respect to data export mechanisms used to transfer personal data from the EEA to the U.S. was inadequate. On November 10, 2020, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB) adopted recommendations outlining European data protection authorities' expectations for how data exporters, supported by data importers, should approach international cross-border data transfers of personal data following the Court’s decision. Such approach includes suggested supplemental technical, organizational and contractual measures companies can adopt to help comply with GDPR and protect against overreaching government surveillance outside of Europe.

For additional information on U.S. privacy, data protection and cybersecurity regulation, see U.S. Regulation – Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity.

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 17


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

FSB and IAIS 

The Financial Stability Board (FSB) consists of representatives of national financial authorities of the G20 countries. The FSB itself is not a regulator but is focused primarily on promoting international financial stability. It does so by coordinating the work of national financial authorities and international standard-setting bodies as well as developing and promoting the implementation of regulatory, supervisory and other financial policies. The FSB has issued a series of frameworks and recommendations to address such issues as systemic financial risk, financial group supervision, capital and solvency standards, effective recovery and resolution regimes, corporate governance including compensation, and a number of related issues associated with responses to the financial crisis.

The IAIS represents insurance regulators and supervisors of more than 200 jurisdictions (including regions and states) in nearly 140 countries and seeks to promote globally consistent insurance industry supervision. The IAIS itself is not a regulator, but one of its activities is to develop insurance regulatory standards for use by local authorities across the globe. The FSB has charged the IAIS with developing a framework for measuring and mitigating systemic risks posed by the insurance sector, and the IAIS has developed standards relative to many of the areas of focus of the FSB, which go beyond the IAIS’ basic Insurance Core Principles. The IAIS has adopted ComFrame, a Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (IAIGs). ComFrame sets out qualitative and quantitative standards tailored to the international activity and size of IAIGs. These standards assist supervisors in collectively addressing an IAIG’s activities and risks, identifying and avoiding supervisory gaps and coordinating supervisory activities, particularly between the group-wide supervisor and other involved supervisors. ComFrame provides standards for group supervision, governance and internal controls, enterprise risk management, and recovery and resolution planning. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS is developing a risk-based global insurance capital standard (ICS) applicable to IAIGs, with the purpose of creating a common language for supervisory discussions of group solvency of IAIGs. We currently meet the criteria set forth to identify an IAIG. 

The IAIS has adopted ICS Version 2.0 for a five year monitoring phase, an initial phase commencing January 2020, during which ICS Version 2.0 will be used for confidential reporting to group-wide supervisors and discussion in supervisory colleges, but will not trigger supervisory action. The purpose of the monitoring period is to monitor the performance of the ICS over a period of time, and not to assess the capital adequacy of IAIGs. During the monitoring period, the IAIS will collect and consider feedback from supervisors, stakeholder engagement, a public consultation, and the results of an economic impact assessment, all of which could result in changes to ICS Version 2.0.

At the conclusion of the five year monitoring period, the IAIS has agreed to a second phase of implementation, whereby the ICS will be applied as a group-wide prescribed capital requirement, defined as a solvency control level above which the supervisor does not intervene on capital adequacy grounds. 

Confidential reporting of ICS Version 2.0 will include reporting by IAIGs of a reference ICS, a consolidated group-wide measure based on a standard method for determining capital requirements and a market adjusted valuation of assets and liabilities. In recognition that the United States and other interested jurisdictions are developing an Aggregation Method (AM) to a group capital calculation, the IAIS is aiding in the development of the AM, including the collection of data from interested jurisdictions. Although the AM is not part of ICS Version 2.0, the IAIS aims to be in a position by the end of the monitoring phase to assess whether the AM provides substantially the same outcome as the ICS, in which case it will be considered an outcome-equivalent approach to the ICS. The IAIS has begun work on developing criteria to assess whether the AM provides comparable outcomes to the ICS, including a project plan focused on delivery by the end of the monitoring period. 

The IAIS has adopted a Holistic Framework for the assessment and mitigation of systemic risk in the insurance sector, for implementation beginning in 2020. The Holistic Framework recognizes that systemic risk can emanate from specific activities and exposures arising from either sector-wide trends or concentrations in individual insurers. The Holistic Framework consists of:

 an enhanced set of supervisory policy measures for macroprudential purposes (including supervisory requirements applied to insurers targeting liquidity risk, macroeconomic exposure, and counterparty exposure; enhanced macroprudential supervision; crisis management and planning; and supervisory powers of intervention), 

 an annual IAIS global monitoring exercise to assess trends and to detect the potential build-up of systemic risks (including an assessment of the possible concentration of systemic risks at individual insurers), 

 mechanisms for collective IAIS discussion and assessment, including coordinated supervisory responses when needed, and

 an IAIS assessment of the consistency of implementation across jurisdictions.

In light of the IAIS adoption of the Holistic Framework, the FSB decided to continue its suspension of the identification of global systemically important insurers (G-SII). In November 2022, based on the initial years of implementation of the Holistic Framework, the FSB will review the need to either discontinue or re-establish an annual identification of G-SIIs.

 

18 AIG | 2020 Form 10-K


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

The standards issued by the FSB and/or the IAIS are not binding on the United States or other jurisdictions around the world unless and until the appropriate local governmental bodies or regulators adopt laws and regulations implementing such standards. At this time, as these standards have been adopted only recently and in some cases remain under development, it is not known how the IAIS’ frameworks and/or standards might be implemented in the United States and other jurisdictions around the world, or how they might ultimately apply to us.

Brexit 

On June 23, 2016, the UK held a referendum in which a majority voted for the UK to withdraw its membership in the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit. The UK left the EU on January 31, 2020. Under the negotiated withdrawal agreement, there was an 11 month “transition period” during which EU rules continued to apply in the UK and the UK and EU negotiated their future relationship. On December 24, 2020, a Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) was reached between the UK and the EU which applies provisionally from January 1, 2021 until February 28, 2021, and is expected to be extended until April 30, 2021. While the TCA covers areas like economic and security co-operation, tariff-free trade in goods, social security coordination, law enforcement and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, among others, it is largely silent on financial services which are expected to be addressed in subsequent negotiations.

AIG has significant operations and employees in the UK and other EU member states. Prior to December 1, 2018, our General Insurance business operated through AIG Europe Limited (AEL), a UK-incorporated insurer with branches across the EEA. These branches operated through the EU concept of Freedom of Establishment, which allows an insurer in any member state to establish branch operations in any other member state but with a single capital pool and a single prudential regulator (which in this case was the UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority as AEL was UK-authorized). In addition, the various establishments of AEL were able to sell insurance products across borders into other member states under the EU principle of Freedom of Services. The UK government did not pursue continued UK membership of the EU single market and so AEL’s structure would not have remained efficient or able to take advantage of these freedoms beyond the transitional period.

As a result, in order to prepare for Brexit, on December 1, 2018, we completed a reorganization of our operations and legal entity structure in the UK and the EU through the establishment of a new European subsidiary in Luxembourg, AIG Europe S.A. (AESA), which has branches across the EEA and Switzerland, and a new UK subsidiary, AIG UK. Business written by AEL’s branches in the remaining EEA countries was transferred to AESA, along with business previously written on a Freedom of Services basis from AEL’s UK operations. The remaining business written by AEL’s UK operations was transferred to AIG UK and AEL was merged into AESA, allowing AIG to operate in both the EEA and UK on a standalone basis.

This reorganization addressed the uncertainty for UK insurers generated by Brexit because it ensured that notwithstanding the loss of Freedom of Establishment and Freedom of Services in the EU for UK financial institutions, AIG will be able to continue to service and pay claims on existing policies, and write new and renewal business where the insured risk is located in the remaining EEA countries. AIG has also put measures in place to adapt to other changes arising from Brexit such as the issuance of additional documentation to motorists it insures who travel cross border and continues to monitor other risks including, for example, the effect of the ending of the transition period and the TCA on the wider UK and EU economies and on its investments.

Derivatives 

Regulation of and restrictions on derivatives markets and transactions have been proposed or adopted outside the United States. For instance, the EU has also established a set of new regulatory requirements for EU derivatives activities under EMIR. These requirements include, among other things, various risk mitigation, risk management, margin posting, regulatory reporting and, for certain categories of derivatives, clearing requirements. Aside from certain margin obligations, these requirements are now in force. There remains the possibility of increased administrative costs with respect to our EU derivatives activities and overlapping or inconsistent regulation depending on the ultimate application of cross-border regulatory requirements between and among U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions.

Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) II

The Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II) and Markets in Financial Instruments Regulation took effect in Europe on January 3, 2018. MiFID II and the related regulations are intended to create transparency in market trading by, for example, imposing trade and transaction reporting and other requirements. AIG Asset Management (Europe) Limited has and continues to implement new policies, procedures and reporting protocols required to ensure compliance with this legislation and its related rules.

AIG | 2020 Form 10-K 19


 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

ITEM 1 | Business

 

Available Information about AIG

Our corporate website is www.aig.com. We make available free of charge, through the Investor Information section of our corporate website, the following reports (and related amendments as filed with the SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: 

 Annual Reports on Form 10-K

 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q 

 Current Reports on Form 8-K

 Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, as well as other filings with the SEC

Also available on our corporate website:

 Charters for Board Committees: Audit, Nominating and Corporate Governance, Compensation and Management Resources, Risk and Capital, and Technology Committees 

 Corporate Governance Guidelines

 Director, Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officer Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (we will post on our website any amendment or waiver to this Code within the time period required by the SEC)

 Employee Code of Conduct

 Related-Party Transactions Approval Policy 

Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Reference to our website is made as an inactive textual reference.

