Alaska Air Group is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1985 that operates two airlines, Alaska and Horizon. Alaska was organized in 1932 and incorporated in 1937 in the state of Alaska. Horizon is a Washington corporation that was incorporated and began service in 1981, and was acquired by Air Group in 1986. Virgin America was a member of Air Group from its acquisition in 2016 through 2018, at which time Alaska and Virgin America combined operating certificates and legally merged into a single entity. The Company also includes McGee Air Services, an aviation services provider that was established as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Alaska in 2016, and other subsidiaries. 


Alaska and Horizon operate as separate airlines, with individual business plans, competitive factors and economic risks. We organize the business and review financial operating performance by aggregating our business in three operating segments, which are as follows:


•Mainline - includes scheduled air transportation on Alaska's Boeing and Airbus jet aircraft for passengers and cargo throughout the U.S., and in parts of Mexico, and Costa Rica. 
•Regional - includes Horizon's and other third-party carriers’ scheduled air transportation for passengers across a shorter distance network within the U.S. and Canada under capacity purchase agreements (CPA). This segment includes the actual revenues and expenses associated with regional flying, as well as an allocation of corporate overhead incurred by Air Group on behalf of the regional operations. 
•Horizon - includes the capacity sold to Alaska under a CPA. Expenses include those typically borne by regional airlines such as crew costs, ownership costs and maintenance costs. 


Together we are the fifth largest airline in the United States, offering unparalleled guest service, connectivity and schedules from our hub markets along the West Coast. With our regional partners we fly to more than 115 destinations throughout the United States and North America. We have operated in a highly competitive and often challenging industry for over 88 years. Our top priority as an airline is ensuring the safety of our guests and employees, an area that we have continued to invest in during 2020 despite the significant financial challenges we encountered. Our success over many decades and resilience in difficult times is attributable to our people, business model, and commitment to sustainable growth over the long-term. 


2020 was a year of uncertainty and challenge. The impact of the pandemic stemming from the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) presented us with the greatest financial challenge in our history. Travel restrictions and stay-at-home orders, coupled with the closure of many popular destinations and the cancellation of major events, drove demand for air travel to historic lows in the spring of 2020. Although we have seen modest improvement since that time, including improved booking activity at the end of 2020 and in early 2021, demand remains well below historical levels. 


In response to reduced demand, we acted quickly to preserve cash by reducing flying across our network and removing fixed and discretionary costs to the greatest extent possible. We also prepared for a potentially long recovery period by accessing $5 billion in liquidity, including private placement offerings, government funding, bank debt and the sale of ten Airbus aircraft. Part of the government funding received was through the Payroll Support Program of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, which provided critical support to enable us to preserve jobs and continue to provide an essential service to the communities we serve. Although our debt balances have increased, our cash preservation efforts were effective and our adjusted net debt at the end of 2020 is substantially unchanged from the end of 2019. Protecting the health of our balance sheet has positioned us well for the recovery that is expected in 2021 and beyond. 


We took action early in the pandemic to ensure a safe environment for guests and our employees. We launched our Next-Level Care initiative, which includes over 100 safety measures that have been, and will continue to be, vital to restoring guest confidence in travel onboard our aircraft. To provide peace of mind in guests' travel decisions, we also eliminated change fees for first class or main cabin itineraries, and we extended the expiry of outstanding travel credits to December 31, 2021. 


Although the pandemic has had a significant negative impact on our business, we have attempted to reduce its effect on our employees where possible. To minimize the need for involuntary furloughs, we instituted early-out and voluntary leave programs, which were accepted by 3,900 employees. Additionally, we aligned the focus of our 22,000 employees on reducing cash burn and delivering a safe travel experience for guests by creating an incentive program designed to supplement our traditional performance-based pay and operational performance programs. Through these programs, our employees earned $130 million in incentive pay in 2020. We strongly believe that aligning employees under common goals makes our company better, 
4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


and expect that Alaska and Horizon will be among the only airlines in the U.S. to provide generous incentive payments for employees in 2020. 


In spite of the difficult year, Alaska and Horizon continued to actively support the communities we serve. In 2020, Air Group companies donated $10 million in cash and in-kind travel to over 900 charitable organizations, and our employees volunteered more than 17,000 hours of community service related to youth and education, medical research and transportation. Our cargo business also provided critical support to communities in need by transporting essential goods and shipments of COVID-19 vaccines throughout the state of Alaska.


As we look forward, we know that our business is dependent on getting guests flying again and getting our people and assets back to work. Now that the the initial response to the pandemic is largely behind us, we have shifted our attention toward recovery as we prepare for the return in demand. Over the next several months as the recovery ensues, our focus areas include the following:


Capturing demand for travel 


Capturing the demand that exists for travel will be vital to our recovery. In 2020, the rebound in leisure travel was much more robust than business travel, and we expect to see that trend continue in 2021. To capture that leisure demand, we announced 30 new routes in 2020, aimed at connecting our guests to warm-weather and outdoor recreation locations. To further reduce travel friction, we have worked with health partners and local governments to implement processes to meet locally-mandated travel requirements. In December 2020, in partnership with the state of Hawai'i government, Alaska was the first airline to launch a pre-clearance program to Hawai'i, providing our guests with a seamless travel experience and allowing them to bypass screening upon arrival. We expect these pre-clearance programs to mature in 2021 and believe they will aid overall recovery and willingness of travelers to fly. 


We believe marketing to guests who may soon return to travel, and ensuring they are familiar with our safety initiatives, is key to capturing demand as it returns. Toward the end of 2020 we launched several campaigns encouraging guests to book future travel. Our Let's Go Campaign emphasized the layers of safety we have put in place, and our friends and family discount program engaged our employees in reaching out to guests. These promotions and others like them stimulated bookings, and the results have served as an encouraging indicator that our guests are eager to return to travel in 2021. 


In 2020, we announced the West Coast International Alliance (WCIA) with American Airlines, Inc. (American) which will provide more destinations, greater utility and more value for our guests and loyalty members. The alliance will allow Alaska Mileage Plan members to enjoy benefits across both airlines by early spring 2021. In conjunction with our partnership with American, we accepted a formal invitation to join the oneworld® global alliance, with entry expected on March 31, 2021. Alaska Mileage PlanTM members will have significantly expanded benefits in the oneworld program, including reciprocal tier status in oneworld, as well as the ability to earn and use miles to reach more than 1,000 destinations worldwide. The WCIA and oneworld enhances Alaska's presence globally, and will position us to capture an incremental share of global travelers and corporate accounts as recovery begins to take shape. 


Reducing our cost structure and strengthening our balance sheet


Maintaining a low cost structure has been critical to our past success, and we believe it will be even more important in the recovery ahead. In 2020 we reduced our adjusted non-fuel operating costs by $1.3 billion, or 22% from 2019, through reductions in flying and minimizing discretionary expenditures. As we return aircraft to service and build capacity in recovery, we are focused on returning to 2019 unit cost levels, excluding fuel and special items, even if we are a smaller company. To this end, we have identified over $250 million in structural cost savings initiatives that we began to realize in the fourth quarter of 2020, which will continue to ramp through 2021. Having low costs when demand returns will enable us to return to profitability more quickly, and will lead to positive cash flow generation. This, in turn, will enable us to begin repaying the debt that we have taken on, which is foundational for our future growth. Additionally, exiting 2020 with adjusted net debt that is largely flat as compared to the prior year means that we have cash on hand that can be used to pay down debt when we believe we are in a stable recovery.


In late 2020, Alaska announced an agreement in principle with Boeing to restructure and grow the existing Boeing 737 MAX (MAX) aircraft purchase agreement. As part of this restructuring, Alaska renegotiated the terms of its aircraft order with Boeing, which will expand the total firm aircraft to 55 to be delivered between 2021 and 2024, with options to purchase an additional 52 aircraft with delivery between 2023 and 2026. Alaska also announced an agreement with Air Lease Corporation to obtain an additional 13 leased MAX aircraft with deliveries between 2021 and 2022, bringing total firm deliveries of MAX aircraft to 68 by 2024. This will allow us to replace Airbus A319 and A320 aircraft that will be returned off lease over the next 
5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


few years. Further, this agreement provides the flexibility to align our growth with the demand environment. Shifting substantially to a single mainline fleet that is more efficient, profitable and sustainable will help support our overall long-term goals.


We have a long track record of disciplined cost control and balance sheet management, and we will continue to aggressively manage both as we navigate through and exit the COVID-19 pandemic. 


AIR GROUP


Our airlines operate different aircraft and missions. Alaska operates a fleet of narrowbody passenger jets on primarily longer stage-length routes. Alaska contracts primarily with Horizon and SkyWest Airlines, Inc. (SkyWest) for shorter-haul capacity, such that Alaska receives all passenger revenue from those flights. Horizon operates Embraer 175 (E175) regional jet aircraft and Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft and sells all of its capacity to Alaska pursuant to a CPA. The majority of our revenues are generated by transporting passengers. The percentage of revenues by category is as follows:
                              
  2020  2019  2018  2017  2016(a) 
Passenger revenue 85  %  92  %  93  %  93  %  91  % 
Mileage Plan other revenue 10  %  5  %  5  %  5  %  6  % 
Cargo and other 5  %  3  %  2  %  2  %  3  % 
Total 100  %  100  %  100  %  100  %  100  % 

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.


We deploy aircraft in ways that we believe will best optimize our revenues and profitability and reduce the impacts of seasonality.


The percentage of our capacity by region is as follows:
                              
  2020  2019  2018  2017  2016(a) 
West Coast(b) 32  %  28  %  27  %  28  %  34  % 
Transcon/midcon 41  %  44  %  44  %  43  %  29  % 
Hawaii and Costa Rica 10  %  14  %  14  %  13  %  17  % 
Alaska 11  %  10  %  10  %  10  %  14  % 
Mexico 5  %  3  %  4  %  5  %  5  % 
Canada 1  %  1  %  1  %  1  %  1  % 
Total 100  %  100  %  100  %  100  %  100  % 

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.
(b)Category represents flying within the West Coast. Departures from the West Coast to other regions are captured in other categories. 


MAINLINE


Our Mainline operations include Boeing 737 (B737) and Airbus A320 family (A320 and A321neo) jet service offered by Alaska. We offer extensive passenger service from the western U.S. throughout the contiguous United States, Alaska, Hawaii, Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica. Our largest concentrations of departures are in Seattle, Portland, and the Bay Area. We also offer cargo service throughout our network and have three dedicated cargo aircraft that operate primarily to and within the state of Alaska. 
 
In 2020, we carried 12 million revenue passengers in our Mainline operations, down from 36 million in 2019 as travel demand was severely impacted from the COVID-19 pandemic. At December 31, 2020, our Mainline operating fleet consisted of 166 B737 jet aircraft and 31 Airbus A320 family jet aircraft compared to 166 B737 aircraft and 71 Airbus aircraft as of December 31, 2019.


6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The percentage of Mainline passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:
                              
  2020  2019  2018  2017  2016(a) 
West Coast(b) 22  %  23  %  23  %  24  %  30  % 
Transcon/midcon 47  %  46  %  46  %  45  %  30  % 
Hawaii and Costa Rica 12  %  16  %  15  %  15  %  19  % 
Alaska 13  %  11  %  11  %  11  %  15  % 
Mexico 6  %  4  %  5  %  5  %  6  % 
Total 100  %  100  %  100  %  100  %  100  % 
          
Average Stage Length (miles) 1,272    1,299    1,298    1,301    1,225   

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.
(b)Category represents flying within the West Coast. Departures from the West Coast to other regions are captured in other categories.


REGIONAL
 
Our Regional operations consist primarily of flights operated by Horizon and SkyWest. In 2020, our Regional operations carried approximately 6 million revenue passengers, primarily in the states of Washington, Oregon, Idaho and California. Horizon is the largest regional airline in the Pacific Northwest and carries approximately 67% of Air Group's regional revenue passengers. 


Based on 2020 Horizon passenger enplanements on regional aircraft, our most significant concentration of regional activity was in Seattle and Portland. At December 31, 2020, Horizon’s operating fleet consisted of 30 E175 jet aircraft and 32 Bombardier Q400 turboprop aircraft. The regional fleet operated by SkyWest consisted of 32 E175 aircraft.


The percentage of regional passenger capacity by region and average stage length is presented below:
                              
  2020  2019  2018  2017  2016 
West Coast 75  %  61  %  53  %  59  %  60  % 
Pacific Northwest 9  %  10  %  11  %  13  %  16  % 
Canada 1  %  3  %  3  %  4  %  5  % 
Alaska 1  %  1  %  2  %  3  %  4  % 
Midcon 14  %  25  %  30  %  21  %  15  % 
Mexico —    —  %  1  %  —  %  —  % 
Total 100  %  100  %  100  %  100  %  100  % 
          
Average Stage Length (miles) 524    490    468    422    381   



FREQUENT FLYER PROGRAM 


Alaska Airlines Mileage Plan™ provides a comprehensive suite of frequent flyer benefits. Miles can be earned by flying on our airlines or on one of our 17 airline partners, by using an Alaska Airlines credit card, or through other non-airline partners. Alaska's extensive list of airline partners includes carriers associated with each of the three major global alliances, making it easier for our members to earn miles and reach elite status in our frequent flyer program. Through Alaska and our global partners, Mileage Plan™ members have access to a large network of over 800 worldwide travel destinations. Further, members can receive up to 50,000 bonus miles upon signing up for the Alaska Airlines Visa Signature card and meeting a minimum spend threshold, and earn triple miles on Alaska Airlines purchases. Alaska Airlines Visa Signature cardholders and small business cardholders in the U.S., and Platinum and World Elite Mastercard cardholders in Canada, also receive an annual companion ticket that allows members to purchase an additional ticket for $99 plus taxes, with no restrictions or black-out dates, and a free first checked bag for up to six people traveling on the same itinerary. Earned miles can be redeemed for flights on our airlines, or our partner airlines, for hotel stays via mileageplanhotels.com, or for upgrades to first class on Alaska Airlines. We believe all of these benefits give our Mileage Plan™ members more value than competing programs.


Mileage Plan™ revenues, including those in the Passenger revenue income statement line item, represented approximately 20% of Air Group's total revenues in 2020. Mileage Plan™ helps drive revenue growth by attracting new customers, keeping existing customers actively engaged, and building customer loyalty through the benefits that we provide. 
7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------






AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER AIRLINES


Our agreements fall into three different categories: frequent flyer, codeshare and interline agreements. Frequent flyer agreements enable our Mileage PlanTM members to earn mileage credits and make redemptions on one of our 17 domestic and international partner airlines. 


Codeshare agreements allow one or more marketing carriers to sell seats on a single operating carrier that services passengers under multiple flight numbers. The sale of codeshare seats can vary depending on the sale arrangement. For example, in a free-sale arrangement, the marketing carrier sells the operating carrier's inventory without any restriction; whereas in a block-space arrangement, a fixed amount of seats are sold to the marketing carrier by the operating carrier. The interchangeability of the flight code between carriers provides a greater selection of flights for customers, along with increased flexibility for mileage accrual and redemption. 


Interline agreements allow airlines to jointly offer a competitive, single-fare itinerary to customers traveling via multiple carriers to a final destination. An interline itinerary offered by one airline may not necessarily be offered by the other, and the fares collected from passengers are prorated and distributed to interline partners according to preexisting agreements between the carriers. Frequent flyer, codeshare and interline agreements help increase our traffic and revenue by providing a more diverse network and schedule options to our guests. 


Alaska has marketing alliances with a number of airlines that provide frequent flyer and codesharing opportunities. On March 31, 2021, Alaska intends to join the oneworld Alliance. Upon entry, Mileage Plan elite members will receive oneworld status, which enables the benefits of tier status recognition and eligible benefits across all 13 oneworld member airlines, providing access to over 1,000 destinations. 


Alliances are an important part of our strategy and enhance our revenues by:
 
•offering our guests more travel destinations and better mileage credit and redemption opportunities, including elite qualifying miles on U.S. and international airline partners;


•providing a consistent and seamless guest experience when you are flying on Alaska or one of our partners;
 
•giving us access to more connecting traffic from other airlines; and
 
•providing members of our alliance partners’ frequent flyer programs an opportunity to travel on Alaska and our regional partners while earning mileage credit in our partners’ programs.
 
Most of our codeshare relationships are free-sale codeshares, where the marketing carrier sells seats on the operating carrier’s flights from the operating carrier’s inventory, but takes no inventory risk. Our marketing agreements have various termination dates, and one or more may be in the process of renegotiation at any time. Our codeshare and interline agreements generated 3%, 5%, and 5% of our total marketed revenues as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. 




8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




A comprehensive summary of Alaska's alliances with other airlines is as follows:
                  
   Codeshare 
 Airline Frequent
Flyer
Agreement  Alaska Flight # on 
Flights Operated by 
Other Airline  Other Airline Flight # 
on Flights Operated by
Alaska or CPA Partners 
Aer Lingus Yes  No  No 
American Airlines Yes  Yes  Yes 
British Airways Yes  No  Yes 
Cathay Pacific Airways Yes  No  Yes 
Condor Airlines(a) Yes  No  No 
EL AL Israel Airlines Yes  No  Yes 
Emirates Yes  No  Yes 
Fiji Airways(a) Yes  No  Yes 
Finnair Yes  No  Yes 
Hainan Airlines Yes  No  No 
Icelandair Yes  No  Yes 
Japan Airlines Yes  No  Yes 
Korean Air Yes  No  Yes 
LATAM Yes  No  Yes 
Qantas Yes  Yes  Yes 
Qatar Airways Yes  No  No 
Singapore Airlines Yes  No  No 
      
      
      

(a)These airlines do not have their own frequent flyer program. However, Alaska's Mileage PlanTM members can earn and redeem miles on these airlines' route systems.




CARGO AND OTHER REVENUE


The Company provides freight and mail services (cargo). The majority of cargo services are provided to commercial businesses and the United States Postal Service. The Company satisfies cargo service performance obligations and recognizes revenue when the shipment arrives at its final destination, or is transferred to a third-party carrier for delivery.


The Company also earns other revenue for lounge memberships, hotel and car commissions, and certain other immaterial items not intrinsically tied to providing air travel to passengers. Revenue is recognized when these services are rendered and recorded as Cargo and other revenue.


GENERAL


The airline industry is highly competitive and subject to potentially volatile business cycles, resulting from factors such as a global pandemic, economic conditions, volatile fuel prices, a largely unionized work force, the need to finance large capital expenditures and the related availability of capital, government regulation—including taxes and fees, and potential aircraft incidents. Airlines have high fixed costs, primarily for wages, aircraft fuel, aircraft ownership and facilities rents. Because expenses of a flight do not vary significantly based on the number of passengers carried, a relatively small change in the number of passengers or in pricing has a disproportionate effect on an airline’s operating and financial results. In other words, a minor shortfall in expected revenue levels could cause a disproportionately negative impact to our operating and financial results. Passenger demand and ticket prices are, in large measure, influenced by the general state of the economy, current global economic and political events, and total available airline seat capacity.


In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic presented the airline industry one of the greatest challenges in the history of aviation. In response to the various stay-at-home orders, local restrictions, and general uncertainty regarding air travel, U.S.-based airlines reduced domestic capacity when compared to 2019 by 75%. Although it is uncertain when the impacts of the pandemic will subside, competition to capture existing demand for travel in the interim is expected to be intense. 


9

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




FUEL


Our business and financial results are highly impacted by the price and the availability of aircraft fuel. Aircraft fuel expense includes raw fuel expense, or the price that we generally pay at the airport, including taxes and fees, plus the effect of mark-to-market adjustments to our fuel hedge portfolio as the value of that portfolio increases and decreases. The cost of aircraft fuel is volatile and outside of our control, and it can have a significant and immediate impact on our operating results. Over the past five years, aircraft fuel expense ranged from 14% to 25% of operating expenses. Fuel prices are impacted by changes in both the price of crude oil and refining costs and can vary by region in the U.S.
The price of crude oil on an average annual basis for the past five years has ranged from a low of $39 per barrel in 2020 to a high of $65 in 2018. For us, a $1 per barrel change in the price of oil equates to approximately $11 million of fuel cost annually based on 2020 consumption levels. Said another way, a one-cent change in our fuel price per gallon will impact our expected annual fuel cost by approximately $5 million per year.


Refining margins, which represent the price of refining crude oil into aircraft fuel, are a smaller portion of the overall price of jet fuel, but have also contributed to the price volatility in recent years. Over the last five years, average annual West Coast refining margin prices have fluctuated from a low of $11 per barrel in 2020 to a high of $26 per barrel in 2019.


Generally, West Coast jet fuel prices are somewhat higher and more volatile than prices in the Gulf Coast or on the East Coast. Our average raw fuel cost per gallon decreased 29% in 2020, after decreasing 6% in 2019 and increasing 28% in 2018.


The percentages of our aircraft fuel expense by crude oil and refining margins, as well as the percentage of our aircraft fuel expense of operating expenses, are as follows:
                              
  2020  2019  2018  2017  2016(a) 
Crude oil 64  %  62  %  68  %  66  %  69  % 
Refining margins 16  %  28  %  25  %  23  %  20  % 
Other(b) 20  %  10  %  7  %  11  %  11  % 
Total 100  %  100  %  100  %  100  %  100  % 
          
Aircraft fuel expense 14  %  24  %  25  %  22  %  18  % 

(a)Includes information for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016.
(b)Other includes gains and losses on settled fuel hedges, unrealized mark-to-market fuel hedge gains or losses, taxes and other into-plane costs.


We use crude oil call options as hedges against our exposure to the volatility of jet fuel prices. Call options effectively cap our price for crude oil, limiting our exposure to increasing fuel prices for about half of our planned fuel consumption. With call options, we are hedged against spikes in crude oil prices, and during a period of declines in crude oil prices, we only forfeit cash previously paid for hedge premiums. We begin hedging approximately 18 months in advance of consumption.


We believe that operating fuel-efficient aircraft and executing on operational best practices are the best hedges against high fuel prices. Maintaining a young, fuel-efficient fleet helps to reduce our fuel consumption rate, but also the amount of greenhouse gases and other pollutants that our aircraft emit.


COMPETITION


Competition in the airline industry can be intense and unpredictable. Our competitors consist primarily of other airlines and, to a lesser extent, other forms of transportation. Competition can be direct, in the form of another carrier flying the exact non-stop route, or indirect, where a carrier serves the same two cities non-stop from an alternative airport in that city or via an itinerary requiring a connection at another airport. We compete with other domestic airlines and a limited number of international airlines on nearly all of our scheduled routes. Our largest competitor is Delta Air Lines Inc. (Delta), who has significantly increased its capacity in Seattle since 2013. Approximately 75% of our capacity to and from Seattle competes with Delta. As we have grown in California and have expanded our transcontinental route offerings, United Airlines and Southwest Airlines have also become large competitors and have increased their capacity in markets we serve. Our California and transcontinental routes have a higher concentration of competitors when compared to our historical route structure, which was predominately concentrated in the Pacific Northwest. Although competitive capacity is expected to be down significantly in the first quarter of 2021 as compared to the first quarter of 2020, given the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect once demand returns that we will face strong competition in all of our primary markets. 
10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------






We believe that the following competitive factors matter to guests when making an air travel purchase decision:
 
•Safety and guest health


Safety is our top priority and is at the core of everything we do. In 2021, Alaska was again ranked by AirlineRatings.com as the safest U.S. airline in the Top 20 safest airlines in the world. In 2020, we also received our 19th Diamond Award of Excellence from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), recognizing both Alaska and Horizon aircraft technicians for their commitment to training.


In 2020, our guests were acutely focused on the risk of potential contagion throughout their journey. In response, we partnered with health and safety experts to build our Next-Level Care initiative. In doing so, we have added nearly 100 measures through all stages of travel aimed at educating and helping our guests and employees to stay safe and to build confidence in flying. For our efforts, we received diamond level certification from the Airline Passenger Experience Association in 2020 for the health and safety standards we implemented.


•Fares and ancillary services


Ticket and other fee pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the increased availability of fare information on the internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. Pricing is driven by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, market-specific capacity, market share per route/geographic area, cost structure, fare vs. ancillary revenue strategies, and demand. 


For example, airlines often discount fares to drive traffic in new markets or to stimulate traffic when necessary to improve load factors. In addition, traditional network carriers have been able to reduce their operating costs through bankruptcies and mergers, while low-cost carriers have continued to grow their fleets and expand their networks, potentially enabling them to better control costs per available seat mile (the average cost to fly an aircraft seat one mile), which in turn may enable them to lower their fares. These factors can reduce our pricing power and that of the airline industry as a whole.


Domestic airline capacity is dominated by four large carriers, representing 79% of total seats. One of our advantages is that we offer low fares and a premium value product and experience. However, given the large concentration of industry capacity, some carriers in our markets may discount their fares substantially to develop or increase market share. Fares that are substantially below our cost to operate can be harmful if sustained over a long period of time. We will defend our position in our core markets and, if necessary, adjust capacity to better match supply with demand. Our strong financial position and low cost advantage have historically enabled us to offer competitive fares while still earning returns for our shareholders.
 
•Customer service and reputation


We compete with other airlines in areas of customer service such as on-time performance and guest amenities - including first class and other premium seating, quality of on-board products, aircraft type and comfort. In the fourth quarter of 2020, Alaska and Horizon were among the top in the industry for on-time performance. 


All mainline aircraft in operating service have our refreshed interior configuration, which provides our guests with one consistent experience across the fleet. We also began installing next-generation Gogo inflight satellite-based Wi-Fi on our entire Boeing and Airbus fleets in 2018, which is now planned to be completed in early 2022. 


Our employees are a critical element of our reputation. We have a highly engaged workforce that strives to provide genuine and caring service to our guests, both at the airport and onboard. We heavily emphasize our service standards with our employees through training and education programs and monetary incentives related to operational performance and guest satisfaction.


•Routes served, flight schedules, codesharing and interline relationships, and frequent flyer programs


We also compete with other airlines based on markets served, the frequency of service to those markets and frequent flyer opportunities. Some airlines have more extensive route structures than we do, and they offer significantly more international routes. In order to expand opportunities for our guests, we enter into codesharing and interline relationships with other airlines that provide reciprocal frequent flyer mileage credit and redemption privileges. These relationships allow us to offer our guests access to more destinations than we can on our own, gain exposure in markets we do not serve 
11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




and allow our guests more opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flyer miles. Our Mileage Plan™ offers some of the most comprehensive benefits in the industry, allowing our members with the ability to earn and redeem miles on 17 partner carriers. 


In 2020, we announced an expanded alliance with American, aimed at providing our West Coast guests with greater utility and international options, while providing American's international guests with increased connectivity options covered by the Alaska network. Coupled with the expanded alliance, we also accepted an invitation to join oneworld, with entrance expected on March 31, 2021. These new alliances allow our guests increased global network utility and benefits, along with increased opportunity to capture corporate sales when demand returns. 


In addition to domestic or foreign airlines that we compete with on most of our routes, we compete with ground transportation in our short-haul markets. Our airlines also compete with technology, such as video conferencing and internet-based meeting tools. We expect that the advancement and increased utilization of these tools will eliminate the need for some business-related travel. 


TICKET DISTRIBUTION
 
Our tickets are distributed through three primary channels:
 
•Direct to customer: Selling direct at alaskaair.com is less expensive than other channels. We believe direct sales through this channel are preferable from a branding and customer relationship standpoint because we can establish ongoing communication with the guest and tailor offers accordingly. As a result, we continue to take steps to drive more business to our website. 
 
•Traditional and online travel agencies: Both traditional and online travel agencies typically use Global Distribution Systems (GDS) to obtain their fare and inventory data from airlines. Bookings made through these agencies result in a fee that is charged to the airline. Many of our large corporate customers require us to use these agencies. Some of our competitors do not use this distribution channel, or rely on it to a lesser extent than we do, and, as a result, have lower ticket distribution costs.
 
•Reservation call centers: Our call centers are located in Phoenix, AZ, Seattle, WA, and Boise, ID. We generally charge a $15 fee for booking reservations through the call centers. 


Our sales by channel are as follows: 
                              
  2020  2019  2018  2017  2016(a) 
Direct to customer 73  %  65  %  63  %  62  %  61  % 
Traditional agencies 12  %  20  %  22  %  22  %  23  % 
Online travel agencies 9  %  11  %  11  %  11  %  11  % 
Reservation call centers 6  %  4  %  4  %  5  %  5  % 
Total 100  %  100  %  100  %  100  %  100  % 

(a)Includes results for Virgin America for the period December 14, 2016 through December 31, 2016. 


SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS


Our results of operations for any interim period are not necessarily indicative of those for the entire year because our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. In typical years, our profitability is generally lowest during the first and fourth quarters due principally to fewer departures and passengers. Profitability typically increases in the second quarter and then reaches its highest level during the third quarter as a result of vacation travel. This pattern was not followed in 2020 because of the COVID-19 pandemic, and 2021 may also experience abnormal trends as a result of the ongoing recovery. In a typical year, some of the impacts of seasonality are offset by travel from the West Coast to leisure destinations, like Hawai'i and Costa Rica, and expansion to leisure and business destinations in the mid-continental and eastern U.S.


Seasonality and operational fluctuations are not predictable in the current environment, and may permanently impact our typical experience of passenger loads post-pandemic. In a typical year, in addition to passenger loads, factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to vary include:  


•pricing initiatives by us or our competitors,
12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------






•      changes in fuel costs, 


•increases in competition at our primary airports,


•general economic conditions and resulting changes in passenger demand, 
 
•increases or decreases in passenger and volume-driven variable costs, and


•air space and Air Traffic Control delays, particularly in Seattle and San Francisco.
 
Many of the markets we serve experience inclement weather conditions in the winter, causing increased costs associated with deicing aircraft, canceling flights and accommodating displaced passengers. Due to our geographic area of operations, we can be more susceptible to adverse weather conditions, particularly in the state of Alaska and the Pacific Northwest, than some of our competitors who may be better able to spread the impact of weather-related risks over larger route systems. 


No material part of our business, or that of our subsidiaries, is dependent upon a single customer, or upon a few high-volume customers.


EMPLOYEES AND HUMAN CAPITAL


Our business is labor intensive. As of December 31, 2020, we employed 21,997 (16,643 at Alaska, 3,511 at Horizon, and 1,843 at McGee Air Services) active employees. Of those employees, 88% are full-time and 12% are part-time. Wages and benefits, including variable incentive pay, represented approximately 47% of our total non-fuel operating expenses in 2020 and 43% in 2019. Approximately 3,300 of our employees were on paid or unpaid leaves as of December 31, 2020 and are included in the totals above.


Most major airlines, including Alaska and Horizon, have employee groups that are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Airlines with unionized work forces generally have higher labor costs than carriers without unionized work forces, and they may not have the ability to adjust labor costs downward quickly enough to respond to new competition or slowing demand. 


LABOR ORGANIZATIONS


At December 31, 2020, labor unions represented 86% of Alaska’s, 51% of Horizon’s, and 87% of McGee Air Services' employees. 


Our relations with U.S. labor organizations are governed by the Railway Labor Act (RLA). Under the RLA, collective bargaining agreements do not expire, but instead become amendable as of a stated date. If either party wishes to modify the terms of any such agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner prescribed by the RLA and/or described in the agreement. After receipt of such notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations, and if no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board to initiate a process including mediation, arbitration, and a potential “cooling off” period that must be followed before either party may engage in self-help.


13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Alaska’s union contracts at December 31, 2020 were as follows: 
                     
Union  Employee Group  Number of Employees  Contract Status 
Air Line Pilots Association, International (ALPA)(a)  Pilots  2,974    Amendable 3/31/2020 
Association of Flight Attendants (AFA)  Flight attendants  5,730    Amendable 12/17/2021 
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM)  Ramp service and stock clerks  644    Amendable 9/27/2024 
IAM  Clerical, office and passenger service  3,971    Amendable 9/27/2024 
Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association (AMFA)  Mechanics, inspectors and cleaners  855    Amendable 10/17/2023 
Mexico Workers Association of Air Transport(b)  Mexico airport personnel  91    Amendable 9/29/2019 
Transport Workers Union of America (TWU)  Dispatchers  85    Amendable 3/24/2021 

(a)Negotiations with ALPA for an updated collective bargaining agreement are ongoing as of the date of this filing.
(b)As a result of amendments to Mexican labor laws, the Company has up to four years to make changes to the existing labor agreements. During that time, the existing contracts remain in place.


Horizon’s union contracts at December 31, 2020 were as follows:
                     
Union  Employee Group  Number of Employees  Contract Status 
International Brotherhood of Teamsters (IBT)  Pilots  793    Amendable 12/31/2024 
AFA  Flight attendants  701    Amendable 4/30/2024 
AMFA  Mechanics and related classifications  249    Amendable 12/15/2020
 
Unifor  Station personnel in 
Vancouver and Victoria, BC, Canada  40    Expires 2/13/2022 
TWU  Dispatchers  25    Amendable 1/29/2026 



McGee Air Services union contract at December 31, 2020 was as follows:
                     
Union  Employee Group  Number of Employees  Contract Status 
IAM  Fleet and ramp service  1,598    Amendable 7/19/2023 



Given the ongoing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is expected to have lasting impacts on our business into 2021, we have taken action to adjust the size of our workforce. To limit the number of involuntary furloughs, we initiated early-out and voluntary leave programs, as well as offered incentive leaves for Alaska pilots and aircraft mechanics. Approximately 3,900 employees opted in to these programs, including over 600 employees that volunteered for early-out separation from Alaska and Horizon. In addition, we reduced our non-union management positions by approximately 300 positions. As a result of these actions, we were able to reduce the number of involuntary furloughs to approximately 400, the majority of which have returned to work by December 31, 2020. 


DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 


At Alaska, we believe that every person deserves respect regardless of race, ethnicity, capability, age, gender or sexual orientation. We are committed to advancing equity in all forms, and have set specific measurable goals to deliver on our commitments to racial equity. In 2020 we joined several other corporate leaders in creating the Washington Employers for Racial Equity which will work to achieve parity in hiring, pay and promotion for Black employees, support Black-owned businesses, and invest a combined $2 billion over the next five years to support racial equity. We also recently published our 2025 diversity, equity and inclusion goals which will hold us accountable to our commitments to increase racial diversity, increase our employee engagement scores around inclusion related topics, and create career pathways for at least 175,000 young people by supporting programs that empower and enable opportunity through a lens of racial equity. 




14

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
The executive officers of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and its primary subsidiaries, Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Horizon Air Industries, who have significant decision-making responsibilities, their positions and their respective ages are as follows: 
                     
Name  Position  Age  Air Group
or Subsidiary
Officer Since 
Bradley D. Tilden  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc., Chairman of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.  60  1994 
       
Shane R. Tackett  Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc. and Alaska Airlines, Inc.  42  2011 
       
Kyle B. Levine  Senior Vice President Legal, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group, Inc., Alaska Airlines, Inc. and Horizon Air Industries, Inc., and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer of Alaska Air Group, Inc.   49  2016 
       
Benito Minicucci  President of Alaska Airlines, Inc.   54  2004 
       
Joseph A. Sprague  President of Horizon Air Industries, Inc.   52  2019 
       
Gary L. Beck  Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc.  73  2018 
       
Andrew R. Harrison  Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer of Alaska Airlines, Inc.   51  2008 
       
Andrea L. Schneider  Senior Vice President People of Alaska Airlines, Inc.  55  1998 
       
Diana Birkett-Rakow  Vice President External Relations of Alaska Airlines, Inc.  43  2017 

 
Mr. Tilden joined Alaska Airlines in 1991, became Controller of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in 1994 and was named Vice President/Finance at Alaska Airlines in January 1999 and at Alaska Air Group in February 2000. He was elected Alaska Airlines Chief Financial Officer in February 2000, Executive Vice President/Finance and Chief Financial Officer of both companies in January 2002 and Executive Vice President/Finance and Planning of Alaska Airlines in April 2007. Mr. Tilden was named President of Alaska Airlines in December 2008 and, in May 2012, he was elected President and CEO of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines and CEO of Horizon Air. He leads Air Group’s Management Executive Committee and was elected to the Air Group Board in 2010 and became Chairman of the Board in January 2014. Mr. Tilden will retire effective March 31, 2021 and Mr. Minicucci will assume the role of Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Tilden will remain as Board Chair.


Mr. Tackett was elected Chief Financial Officer in March 2020 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Tackett joined Alaska Airlines in 2000 and has served in a number of roles including Managing Director Financial Planning and Analysis (2008-2010), Vice President Labor Relations (2010-2015), Vice President Revenue Management (2016), Senior Vice President Revenue and E-commerce (2017-2018), and Executive Vice President Planning and Strategy (2018-2020). 


Mr. Levine was elected Senior Vice President Legal and General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in January 2020 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Levine was previously Vice President Legal and General Counsel of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines (January 2016 - January 2020). He was elected Corporate Secretary of Alaska Air Group and Alaska Airlines in August 2017 and of Horizon Air in January 2020. Mr. Levine joined Alaska Airlines in February 2006 as a Senior Attorney. He also served as Associate General Counsel and Managing Director Commercial Law and General Litigation from July 2009 to February 2011 and, subsequently, as Deputy General Counsel and Managing Director of Legal at Alaska Airlines from February 2011 to January 2016. 


15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Mr. Minicucci was elected President of Alaska Airlines in May 2016. Prior to that he was Executive Vice President/Operations of Alaska Airlines from December 2008 to May 2016, and was Alaska’s Chief Operating Officer from December 2008 until November 2019. He was Chief Executive Officer of Virgin America Inc. from December 2016 to July 2018, when Virgin America was merged into Alaska. He is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee, and was elected to the Alaska Air Group Board of Directors in May 2020. Mr. Minicucci will assume the role of Chief Executive Officer concurrent with Mr. Tilden's retirement on March 31, 2021. 


Mr. Sprague was elected President of Horizon Air effective November 6, 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Mr. Sprague previously served as Senior Vice President External Relations of Alaska Airlines from May 2014 until his resignation in September 2017. Mr. Sprague also served Alaska Airlines as Vice President of Marketing from March 2010 to April 2014 and Vice President of Alaska Air Cargo from April 2008 to March 2010.


Mr. Harrison was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in August 2015. He is a member of Air Group's Management Executive Committee. Mr. Harrison joined Alaska Airlines in 2003 as the Managing Director of Internal Audit and was elected Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2008. He was elected Senior Vice President of Planning and Revenue Management in 2014 and Executive Vice President and Chief Revenue Officer in February 2015. 


Mr. Beck was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Alaska Airlines effective November 6, 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Prior to that he served as President and CEO of Horizon Air from January 2018 – November 2019. Mr. Beck previously served as Vice President, Flight Operations at Alaska Airlines, Inc. until retiring in June 2015. Following that date, he provided consulting services to Alaska Airlines, Inc. in connection with the integration to a single operating certificate with Virgin America Inc.


Ms. Schneider was elected Senior Vice President of People at Alaska Airlines in June 2019 and is a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee. Ms. Schneider was previously Vice President of People at Alaska (August 2017-May 2019) Vice President of Inflight Services at Alaska (2011-2017), later also taking responsibility for Call Centers at Alaska (February 2017). She began her career at Alaska as Manager of Financial Accounting in 1989. Since that time, she has held a number of positions.


Ms. Birkett-Rakow was elected Vice President of External Relations at Alaska Airlines in September 2017 and became a member of Air Group’s Management Executive Committee at that time. 


REGULATION
 
GENERAL
 
The airline industry is highly regulated, most notably by the federal government. The Department of Transportation (DOT), the the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and the FAA exercise significant regulatory authority over air carriers.
 
•DOT: A domestic airline is required to hold a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the DOT in order to provide passenger and cargo air transportation in the U.S. Subject to certain individual airport capacity, noise and other restrictions, this certificate permits an air carrier to operate between any two points in the U.S. Certificates do not expire, but may be revoked for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders or the terms of the certificates. While airlines are permitted to establish their own fares without government regulation, the DOT has jurisdiction over the approval of international codeshare agreements, marketing alliance agreements between major domestic carriers, international and some domestic route authorities, Essential Air Service market subsidies, carrier liability for personal or property damage, and certain airport rates and charges disputes. International treaties may also contain restrictions or requirements for flying outside of the U.S. and impose different carrier liability limits than those applicable to domestic flights. The DOT has been active in implementing a variety of “consumer protection” regulations, covering subjects such as advertising, passenger communications, denied boarding compensation and tarmac delay response. Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the DOT for alleged violations of consumer protection and other economic regulations. We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 


•FAA: The FAA, through Federal Aviation Regulations (FARs), generally regulates all aspects of airline operations, including establishing personnel, maintenance and flight operation standards. Domestic airlines are required to hold a valid air carrier operating certificate issued by the FAA. Pursuant to these regulations, we have established, and the FAA has approved, our operations specifications and a maintenance program for each type of aircraft we operate. Each maintenance program provides for the ongoing maintenance of the relevant aircraft type, ranging from frequent routine inspections to 
16
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




major overhauls. Periodically, the FAA issues airworthiness directives (ADs) that must be incorporated into our aircraft maintenance program and operations. All airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the FAA from time to time for alleged violations of FARs or ADs. At this time, we are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 


•TSA: Airlines serving the U.S. must operate a TSA-approved Aircraft Operator Standard Security Program (AOSSP), and comply with TSA Security Directives (SDs) and regulations. Under TSA authority, we are required to collect a September 11 Security Fee of $5.60 per one-way trip from passengers and remit that sum to the government to fund aviation security measures. Airlines are subject to enforcement actions that are brought by the TSA for alleged violations of the AOSSP, SDs or security regulations. We are not aware of any enforcement proceedings that could either materially affect our financial position or impact our authority to operate. 


The Department of Justice and DOT have jurisdiction over airline antitrust matters. The U.S. Postal Service has jurisdiction over certain aspects of the transportation of mail and related services. Labor relations in the air transportation industry are regulated under the RLA. To the extent we continue to fly to foreign countries and pursue alliances with international carriers, we may be subject to certain regulations of foreign agencies and international treaties.


We are also subject to the oversight of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) concerning employee safety and health matters. The OSHA and other federal agencies have been authorized to create and enforce regulations that have an impact on our operations. In addition to these federal activities, various states have been delegated certain authorities under these federal statutes. Many state and local governments have adopted employee safety and health laws and regulations. We maintain our safety and health programs in order to meet or exceed these requirements.


ENVIRONMENTAL
 
We are also subject to various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters, both domestically and internationally. Domestic regulations that have an impact to our operations include the Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990, the Clean Air Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act (including Environmental Justice), Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act. Many state and local environmental regulations exceed these federal regulations. In the future we expect there to be incremental legislation aimed at further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, hazardous substances and additional focus on environmental justice. 


The Airport Noise and Capacity Act recognizes the rights of airport operators with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as they do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Authorities in several cities have established aircraft noise reduction programs, including the imposition of nighttime curfews. We believe we have sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions.


The impacts of carbon dioxide emissions generated by the airline industry and the impact of those emissions on climate change have faced increased scrutiny. Further, we know that attention to climate issues and impact have grown amongst our employees and guests. We recognize that our operations have an impact on the environment, and are responsible for addressing those impacts through our own operations, as well as in partnership with governments, industry, manufacturers, employees and guests to enable new technology for the long-term. 


The airline industry committed to carbon neutral growth starting in 2020. Through this commitment we have joined participation in the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), a global, market-based emissions offset program issued by the International Civil Aviation Organization to be carbon neutral for international growth. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the growth baseline year was modified and set to 2019 during the initial phase. This does not have a direct impact on domestic flights, however the EPA finalized a rule in 2020 on aircraft emission standards which aligns with the international agreements. Additional commitments to decarbonize through the Paris Climate Accord and domestic carbon neutrality remain a potential impact to our industry. 


Our commitment to sustainability is anchored by our efforts to reduce our carbon emissions from jet fuel. To mitigate emissions and keep with industry commitments towards reductions, we have taken a number of key actions, including transitioning to more fuel-efficient aircraft fleets, such as the Boeing 737 MAX, utilizing fuel-efficient winglets, and flying efficient flight paths. Alaska has joined with others at Seattle Tacoma International Airport and San Francisco International Airport to strengthen the pathway to commercially viable sustainable aviation fuel. Through an offtake agreement with Neste in San Francisco, Alaska has started to use sustainable aviation fuel on an ongoing basis to reduce the lifecycle carbon dioxide emissions of our flights and will help comply with CORSIA obligations. In 2020, we also strengthened our commitment to emissions reduction through a partnership with Microsoft. Alaska Airlines and Microsoft are partnering to use sustainable 
17
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




aviation fuel to reduce the climate change impact of Microsoft employee travel on the top routes their employees fly. In addition, Alaska and Horizon continue to utilize electric ground equipment at airports when we have the infrastructure to support it. 


Overall, the total Alaska mainline greenhouse gas emissions intensity trend has improved significantly since 2009 with our goals to reduce emissions intensity. More broadly, we know that being responsible for our impact is a critical part of delivering value for all those who depend on us – employees, communities, guests, and owners – over the long term. To that end, we are focused on addressing the breadth of our most significant environmental impacts across emissions and waste, as well as important social impacts. Alaska leads the industry in inflight recycling and has reduced waste to landfill by over 60% per passenger over the past decade. In 2018, we were the first U.S. airline to remove plastic straws and stir sticks from our aircraft and in 2019, we launched a campaign called #FillBeforeYouFly to engage our employees and guests in reducing plastic waste. For more details on Alaska’s emission reductions programs as well as status on other key environmental initiatives, see Alaska’s annual Sustainability Reports and environmental performance metrics on our website,
www.flysustainably.com/reports. The information contained on our sustainability website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. 


Although we do not currently anticipate that specific environmental regulation will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, new regulations, related to our existing or past operations, or compliance issues could have the impact to harm our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in future periods.


INSURANCE


We carry insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts deemed adequate to protect our interests and property and to comply both with federal regulations and certain credit and lease agreements. The insurance policies principally provide coverage for Airline Hull, Spares and Comprehensive Legal Liability, War and Allied Perils, and Workers’ Compensation. In addition, we currently carry a Cyber Insurance policy in the event of security breaches from malicious parties. 


We believe that our emphasis on safety and our state-of-the-art flight deck safety technology help to control the cost of our insurance.


WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION
 
Our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available on our website at www.alaskaair.com, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the electronic filing of these reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information contained on our website is not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K.
 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS


Adjusted net debt - long-term debt, including current portion, plus capitalized operating leases, less cash and marketable securities


Adjusted net debt to EBITDAR - represents adjusted net debt divided by EBITDAR (trailing twelve months earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, special items and rent)


Aircraft Utilization - block hours per day; this represents the average number of hours per day our aircraft are in transit


Aircraft Stage Length - represents the average miles flown per aircraft departure


ASMs - available seat miles, or “capacity”; represents total seats available across the fleet multiplied by the number of miles flown


CASM - operating costs per ASM, or "unit cost"; represents all operating expenses including fuel and special items


CASMex - operating costs excluding fuel and special items per ASM; this metric is used to help track progress toward reduction of non-fuel operating costs since fuel is largely out of our control


18
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------




Debt-to-capitalization ratio - represents adjusted debt (long-term debt plus capitalized operating lease liabilities) divided by total equity plus adjusted debt


Diluted Earnings per Share - represents earnings per share (EPS) using fully diluted shares outstanding


Diluted Shares - represents the total number of shares that would be outstanding if all possible sources of conversion, such as stock options, were exercised


Economic Fuel - best estimate of the cash cost of fuel, net of the impact of our fuel-hedging program


Load Factor - RPMs as a percentage of ASMs; represents the number of available seats that were filled with paying passengers


Mainline - represents flying Boeing 737, Airbus 320 family and Airbus 321neo jets and all associated revenues and costs


Productivity - number of revenue passengers per full-time equivalent employee


RASM - operating revenue per ASMs, or "unit revenue"; operating revenue includes all passenger revenue, freight & mail, Mileage Plan™ and other ancillary revenue; represents the average total revenue for flying one seat one mile


Regional - represents capacity purchased by Alaska from Horizon and SkyWest. Financial results in this segment include actual on-board passenger revenue, less costs such as fuel, distribution costs, and payments made to Horizon and SkyWest under the respective capacity purchased arrangement (CPA). Additionally, Regional includes an allocation of corporate overhead such as IT, finance, and other administrative costs incurred by Alaska and on behalf of Horizon


RPMs - revenue passenger miles, or "traffic"; represents the number of seats that were filled with paying passengers; one passenger traveling one mile is one RPM


Yield - passenger revenue per RPM; represents the average revenue for flying one passenger one mile
