Overview
Alexion is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on serving patients and families affected by rare diseases and devastating conditions through the discovery, development and commercialization of life-changing medicines.
As a leader in rare diseases for more than 25 years, Alexion has developed and commercializes two approved complement inhibitors to treat patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) and atypical hemolytic uremic syndrome (aHUS), as well as the first and only approved complement inhibitor to treat anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody-positive generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG) and neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) in patients who are anti-aquaporin-4 (AQP4) antibody positive. Alexion also has two highly innovative enzyme replacement therapies and the first and only approved therapies for patients with life-threatening and ultra-rare metabolic disorders, hypophosphatasia (HPP) and lysosomal acid lipase deficiency (LAL-D). With the acquisition of Portola Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Portola) in July 2020, we added the first and only approved Factor Xa inhibitor reversal agent for patients treated with rivaroxaban or apixaban when reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.
In addition to our marketed therapies, we have a diverse pipeline resulting from internal innovation and business development. Alexion focuses its research efforts on novel molecules and targets in the complement cascade and development efforts on the core therapeutic areas of hematology, nephrology, neurology, metabolic disorders, cardiology, ophthalmology and acute care. We were incorporated in 1992 under the laws of the State of Delaware.
On December 12, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) for AstraZeneca to acquire Alexion. If completed, Alexion stockholders will receive $60.00 in cash and 2.1243 AstraZeneca American Depositary Shares (ADSs) for each Alexion share (each ADS representing one-half of one (1/2) ordinary share of AstraZeneca, as evidenced by American Depositary Receipts (ADRs)). Based on AstraZeneca's reference average ADR price of $54.14, this implies total consideration to Alexion stockholders of $39,000.0 or $175.00 per share. Subject to receipt of regulatory clearances and approval by stockholders of both companies, the acquisition is expected to close during the third quarter of 2021, and upon completion, Alexion stockholders would own approximately 15.0% of the combined company. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for additional information regarding the transaction.
Products and Development Programs
We focus our product development programs on life-transforming therapeutics for rare diseases and devastating conditions for which current treatments are either non-existent or inadequate. We have developed or are developing innovative products for, among others, the following indications:
      
Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH) PNH is a chronic, progressive, debilitating and life-threatening ultra-rare blood disorder characterized by intravascular hemolysis (destruction of red blood cells) that is mediated by an uncontrolled activation of the complement system, a part of the immune system. PNH red blood cells are exquisitely vulnerable to activated complement, resulting in chronic intravascular hemolysis (IVH). Chronic IVH in patients with PNH may be associated with life-threatening thromboses, recurrent pain, kidney disease, disabling fatigue, impaired quality of life, severe anemia, pulmonary hypertension, shortness of breath and intermittent episodes of dark-colored urine (hemoglobinuria). A small sub-set of PNH patients on C5-inhibitor treatment may experience clinically evident extravascular hemolysis (PNH-EVH). 

      
Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS) aHUS is a severe and life-threatening, ultra-rare genetic disease characterized by chronic uncontrolled complement activation and thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA), the formation of blood clots in small blood vessels throughout the body, causing a reduction in platelet count (thrombocytopenia) and life-threatening damage to the kidney, brain, heart and other vital organs. 

      
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis (gMG) Myasthenia Gravis (MG) is a debilitating, complement-mediated neuromuscular disease in which patients suffer profound muscle weakness throughout the body, resulting in slurred speech, impaired swallowing and choking, double vision, upper and lower extremity weakness, disabling fatigue, shortness of breath due to respiratory muscle weakness and episodes of respiratory failure. 

5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      
Hypophosphatasia (HPP) HPP is an ultra-rare genetic and progressive metabolic disease in which patients experience devastating effects on multiple systems of the body, leading to debilitating or life-threatening complications. HPP is characterized by defective bone mineralization that can lead to deformity of bones and other skeletal abnormalities, as well as systemic complications such as profound muscle weakness, seizures, pain, and respiratory failure leading to premature death in infants. 

      
Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency (LAL Deficiency or LAL-D) LAL-D is a serious, life-threatening ultra-rare disease associated with premature mortality and significant morbidity. LAL-D is a chronic disease in which genetic mutations result in decreased activity of the LAL enzyme that leads to marked accumulation of lipids in vital organs, blood vessels, and other tissues, resulting in progressive and systemic organ damage including hepatic fibrosis, cirrhosis, liver failure, accelerated atherosclerosis, cardiovascular disease, and other devastating consequences. 

      
Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder (NMOSD) NMOSD is a severe and ultra-rare autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that primarily affects the optic nerves and the spinal cord. Each relapse of the disorder results in a stepwise accumulation of disability, including blindness and paralysis, and sometimes premature death. Complement activation due to anti-AQP4 antibodies is one of the primary underlying causes of the destruction of vital cells in the central nervous system in patients with NMOSD. 

      
Anticoagulant Effects of Factor Xa Inhibitors Factor Xa Inhibitors (i.e. apixaban, rivaroxaban and edoxaban), may rarely cause patients to be hospitalized with life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Potential events include intracranial hemorrhage; intraocular, pericardial, intraspinal, intraarticular bleeding at critical sites; major gastrointestinal, retroperitoneal, or genitourinary bleeding; and bleeding associated with major blunt or penetrating injury. 

      
Wilson Disease Wilson disease is a rare disorder, characterized by excess copper stored in various body tissues, that can lead to severe liver disease, including cirrhosis and acute liver failure, as well as debilitating neurological morbidities such as impaired movement, gait, speech, swallowing, and psychiatric disorders. 

      
Warm Autoimmune Hemolytic Anemia (WAIHA) WAIHA is a rare autoimmune disorder caused by pathogenic Immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies that react with and cause the premature destruction of red blood cells at normal body temperature. The disease is often characterized by profound, and potentially life-threatening anemia and other acute complications, including severe and life-threatening hemolysis, severe weakness, enlarged spleen and/or liver, rapid heart rate (tachycardia), chest pain, heart failure and fainting (syncope). 

      
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) ALS is a progressive neurodegenerative disease of the CNS characterized by the loss of upper (brain) and lower (spinal cord) motor neurons. Ongoing loss of motor neurons and muscle strength leads to loss of independence, paralysis and death, typically due to respiratory insufficiency. 

      
 C3 Glomerulopathy (C3G) C3G is a rare, chronic disease affecting the kidneys in which the alternative pathway of the complement system is dysregulated due to genetic mutations or autoantibodies affecting the regulation of the alternative pathway. This lack of regulation results in the alternative pathway overactivation and the excessive deposition of C3 protein fragments in the glomeruli, a key filtration component of the kidney, often leading to serious kidney damage. 

      
Relapsed/refractory B-and T-cell malignancies The B cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHLs) are a diverse group of disorders of proliferating malignant B cells. Collectively, NHL is the eighth leading type of cancer in the U.S., with B-cell lymphomas diagnosed in approximately 85% to 90% of patients. The T cell lymphomas are represented by diverse histologies depending on the malignant cell of origin. T-cell NHL comprises approximately 10% to 15% of the total cases of NHL. Patients present with fever, night sweats, and unintentional weight loss. With progressive disease, the malignant cells metastasize from lymph nodes and bone marrow to other organs, ultimately resulting in organ failure. Front-line therapy consists of combination chemotherapy with rituximab. Experimental agents are in development to address patients who relapse or are refractory to front-line therapy. There are no curative therapies in the relapsed/refractory setting. 

      
Transthyretin Amyloidosis (ATTR) Transthyretin (TTR) amyloidosis (ATTR) is a systemic, progressive, life-threatening disease wherein misfolded TTR protein forms fibrils that deposit in organs and tissues, disrupting normal organ function and tissue structure. ATTR is segmented into mutant/hereditary (ATTRm) caused by mutations in the TTR gene and wild type (ATTRwt)/non-hereditary with no mutations in the TTR gene.


Phenotypically, ATTR amyloidosis is heterogeneous: 
•ATTR cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM), caused by the accumulation of misfolded TTR amyloid in the heart, leading to heart failure
•ATTR polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN), caused by the accumulation of misfolded TTR amyloid in the peripheral and/or autonomic-nervous system. These deposits can damage patients’ sensory-motor ability, while also impairing normal cardiovascular and digestive function
•While ATTRwt is, by definition, a cardiac disease, ATTRm is more heterogeneous, and can present with various degrees of cardiac and neurological manifestations 

      
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation Associated Thrombotic Microangiopathy (HSCT-TMA) Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a disorder that may occur following hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), often presenting in the setting of multiple triggers, including endothelial insult, immune dysregulation, and uncontrolled complement activation. The TMA has a significant impact to multiple organs, typically resulting in severe organ dysfunction and long-term morbidity. Mortality in patients with HSCT-TMA is approximately 60% with severe TMA approaching 90%. 

6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      
COVID-19

 Coronaviruses are a family of viruses that can cause illnesses such as the common cold, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS). In 2019, a new coronavirus was identified that is now known as the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and the disease it causes is called coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). In March 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. Signs and symptoms of COVID-19 may appear two to 14 days after exposure and can include fever, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing. The severity of COVID-19 symptoms can range from very mild to very severe. Some people may have no symptoms at all. People who are older or who have pre-existing diagnosed or undiagnosed medical conditions, such as heart disease, lung disease and/or diabetes, or who have a compromised or overreacting immune system may be at higher risk of serious illness or complications and may require assisted ventilation as well as urgent critical care. 





Marketed Products
Our marketed products include the following:
         
Product Therapeutic Area Approved Indication 
alxn-20201231_g2.jpg Hematology Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH) 
 
Hematology/Nephrology Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS)

 
 
alxn-20201231_g3.jpg Hematology Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria (PNH) 
Hematology/Nephrology Atypical Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome (aHUS) 
Neurology Generalized Myasthenia Gravis (gMG) 
Neurology Neuromyelitis Optica Spectrum Disorder (NMOSD) 
alxn-20201231_g4.jpg Metabolic Disorders Hypophosphatasia (HPP) 
alxn-20201231_g5.jpg Metabolic Disorders Lysosomal Acid Lipase Deficiency (LAL-D) 
alxn-20201231_g6.jpg Acute Care Reversal of anticoagulation in patients treated with Factor Xa inhibitors when experiencing life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. 





ULTOMIRIS (ALXN1210/ravulizumab-cwvz)
ULTOMIRIS is an innovative, long-acting C5 inhibitor discovered and developed by Alexion that works by inhibiting the C5 protein in the terminal complement cascade. In clinical studies, ULTOMIRIS demonstrated rapid, complete, and sustained reduction of free C5 levels. 
In December 2018, ULTOMIRIS was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a new treatment option for adult patients with PNH in the U.S. ULTOMIRIS was approved as a new treatment option for adult patients with PNH by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour, and Welfare (MHLW) in June 2019. ULTOMIRIS was approved by the European Commission (EC) in July 2019 as a treatment for adult patients with PNH with hemolysis with clinical symptoms indicative of high disease activity, and also for adult patients who are clinically stable after having been treated with SOLIRIS for at least the past six months. 
In October 2019, the FDA approved the use of ULTOMIRIS as a treatment for adult and pediatric (one 7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

month of age or older) patients with aHUS to inhibit complement-mediated TMA.
In June 2020, the EC approved ULTOMIRIS for the treatment of adults and children with a body weight of 10kg or above with aHUS who are complement inhibitor treatment-naïve or have received SOLIRIS (eculizumab) for at least three months and have evidence of response to eculizumab.
In September 2020, ULTOMIRIS was approved by Japan's MHLW as a new treatment option for adult and pediatric patients with aHUS.
In October 2020, ULTOMIRIS 100 mg/mL formulation was approved by the FDA for the treatment of adult patients with PNH and for adults and pediatric (one month of age or older) patients with aHUS to inhibit complement-mediated TMA. In November 2020, ULTOMIRIS 100 mg/mL formulation was approved by the EC for treatment of PNH and aHUS. The 100 mg/mL formulation is a higher concentration formulation of ULTOMIRIS than the formulation initially approved in December 2018. ULTOMIRIS 100 mg/mL reduces average annual infusion times by approximately 60 percent compared to ULTOMIRIS 10 mg/mL while delivering safety and efficacy consistent with the ULTOMIRIS 10 mg/mL formulation.
SOLIRIS (eculizumab)
SOLIRIS is an innovative C5 inhibitor discovered and developed by Alexion that works by inhibiting the C5 protein in the terminal complement cascade. SOLIRIS is a humanized monoclonal antibody that effectively blocks terminal complement activity at the doses currently prescribed.
SOLIRIS is approved for the treatment of PNH and aHUS in pediatric and adult patients in the U.S., Europe, Japan and in several other countries. Alexion is sponsoring multinational registries to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with PNH and aHUS and the longer-term outcomes during anti-C5 treatment. 
In 2017, the FDA and EC regulatory authorities approved SOLIRIS for the treatment of gMG in adults who are anti-acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody-positive. Additionally, in 2017, the MHLW in Japan approved SOLIRIS as a treatment for patients with gMG who are AChR antibody-positive and whose symptoms are difficult to control with high-dose intravenous immunoglobulin therapy or plasmapheresis (PLEX).
In June 2019, SOLIRIS became the first FDA-approved treatment option for adult patients with NMOSD who are AQP4 auto antibody positive. In August 2019, the EC approved SOLIRIS as the first treatment in Europe for NMOSD in adults who are AQP4 antibody-positive with a relapsing course of the disease. In November 2019, the Japanese MHLW approved SOLIRIS as a treatment for the prevention of relapse in patients with AQP4 antibody-positive NMOSD, including Neuromyelitis Optica.
STRENSIQ (asfotase alfa)
STRENSIQ, a targeted enzyme replacement therapy, is the first and only approved therapy for patients with HPP and is designed to directly address underlying causes of HPP by aiming to restore the genetically defective metabolic process, thereby preventing or reversing the severe and potentially life-threatening complications in patients with HPP. STRENSIQ is approved in the U.S. for patients with perinatal-, infantile- and juvenile-onset HPP, in Europe for the treatment of patients with pediatric-onset HPP, and in Japan for the treatment of patients with HPP. Alexion is sponsoring a multinational registry to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with HPP and the longer-term outcomes during STRENSIQ treatment.
KANUMA (sebelipase alfa)
KANUMA, a recombinant form of the human LAL enzyme, is the only enzyme-replacement therapy that is approved for the treatment for patients with LAL-D. KANUMA is approved in the U.S. for the treatment of patients with LAL-D, in Europe for long-term enzyme replacement therapy in patients with LAL-D, and in Japan for the treatment of patients with LAL-D. Alexion is sponsoring a multinational registry to gather information regarding the natural history of patients with LAL-D and the longer-term outcomes during KANUMA treatment.
ANDEXXA (coagulation factor Xa - [recombinant] inactivated-zhzo)
ANDEXXA is approved by the FDA as a reversal agent for patients treated with rivaroxaban or apixaban, when reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. ANDEXXA was approved under the FDA’s Accelerated Approval Pathway, and received conditional marketing authorization in the EU based on the change from baseline in anti-Factor Xa activity in healthy volunteers and in patients through the ANNEXXA-4 trial demonstrating hemostatic efficacy. Continued approval for this indication is contingent upon post-marketing study results that verify that clinical benefit is conferred to patients.

8

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Clinical Development Programs
Our ongoing clinical development programs include the following:
                           
Product Mechanism of Action Development Area Indication Phase I Phase II Phase III Phase IV Filed 
ULTOMIRIS (ALXN1210/ravulizumab-cwvz) (Intravenous) Anti-C5 Neurology
Pulmonology gMG/NMOSD/ALS/COVID-19/HSCT-TMA   l   
         
ULTOMIRIS (ALXN1210/ravulizumab-cwvz)
(Subcutaneous) Anti-C5 Hematology/Nephrology PNH/aHUS   l   
         
ALXN1720 (Subcutaneous) Anti-C5 Next Generation Subcutaneous Complement Inhibitor  l     
         
ALXN1820
(Subcutaneous) Anti-Properdin Subcutaneous Complement Inhibitor  l     
         
ALXN1830
(SYNT001)
(Subcutaneous) Anti-FcRN FcRN  l     
         
ALXN1840
(WTX101) High-affinity, specific Cu binder Metabolic Disorders Wilson disease   l   
         
ALXN2040
(ACH-4471/ danicopan) Factor D Inhibitor Hematology/Nephrology PNH-EVH   l   
         
ALXN2050
(ACH-5228) Factor D Inhibitor Hematology/Nephrology PNH  l    
         
ALXN2060
(AG10) TTR Stabilizer Metabolic Disorders ATTR-CM   l   
         
ALXN2070
(ANDEXXA) Anti-Factor Xa Reversal Acute Care Reversal of anticoagulation in patients treated with Factor Xa inhibitors when experiencing life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding.    l  
         
ALXN2075
(Cerdulatinib) Dual spleen tyrosine kinase and janus kinase (SYK/JAK) inhibitor Oncology Relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia or B-cell or T-cell NHL  l    



In addition to our ongoing development programs, Alexion holds a minority interest in and an option to acquire Caelum Biosciences (Caelum), a biotechnology company that is developing CAEL-101 for light chain (AL) amyloidosis. CAEL-101 is a first-in-class chimeric monoclonal antibody (mAb) designed to improve organ function by reducing or eliminating amyloid deposits in the tissues and organs of patients with AL amyloidosis, a rare systemic disorder caused by an abnormality of plasma cells in the bone marrow. A Phase Ia/Ib study for CAEL-101 has been completed. Following discussions with the FDA, a Phase II trial for CAEL-101 commenced during the first quarter of 2020. The trial met its primary objectives, supporting the safety and tolerability of CAEL-101 and confirmed the dose and regimen to be adopted for the Phase III studies. In September 2020, Alexion and Caelum announced the initiation of the Cardiac Amyloid Reaching for Extended Survival (CARES) program. This includes two parallel Phase III trials to evaluate the survival benefits of CAEL-101. Dosing is underway in the two parallel Phase 3 studies; one in patients with Mayo stage IIIa disease and one in patients with Mayo stage IIIb disease.
9

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ULTOMIRIS (ALXN1210/ravulizumab-cwvz)
ULTOMIRIS is an innovative, long-acting C5 inhibitor discovered and developed by Alexion that works by inhibiting the C5 protein in the terminal complement cascade. In clinical studies, ALXN1210 demonstrated rapid, complete, and sustained reduction of free C5 levels.
Intravenous (IV)
In January 2019, Alexion announced that the Phase III, global, single arm, multicenter study evaluating the safety and efficacy of ALXN1210 administered by IV infusion every 8 weeks to adult patients with aHUS who had never been treated with a complement inhibitor (inhibitor-naïve patients) met its primary objective. In the study's initial 26-week treatment period, 53.6 percent of patients demonstrated complete TMA response. A second Phase III, single arm, multicenter study to evaluate the safety, efficacy, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmaco-dynamics (PD) of ALXN1210 administered by IV infusion every 8 weeks in inhibitor-naïve pediatric patients (including adolescents) with aHUS is ongoing.
In March 2019, Alexion initiated a Phase III double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ALXN1210 in adult patients for the treatment of gMG. Additionally, in December 2019, Alexion initiated a Phase III, single arm, open-label, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ALXN1210 in adult patients with NMOSD.
In March 2020, Alexion initiated a Phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ALXN1210 in patients with ALS.
In May 2020, following the FDA's acceptance of Alexion's IND application, Alexion initiated a Phase III open-label, randomized, controlled clinical trial of ALXN1210 in adult patients with COVID-19, who are hospitalized with severe COVID-19 requiring mechanical ventilation. The trial is investigating the role of terminal complement inhibition in managing patients with severe COVID-19. In January 2021, we paused further enrollment in this study due to lack of efficacy, pending further analysis of the data. This decision was made based on the recommendation of an independent data monitoring committee (IDMC), following their review of data from a pre-specified interim analysis. 
In August 2020, Alexion submitted an application to the Japanese Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) to register the ULTOMIRIS 100mg/ml formulation. The 100 mg/mL formulation is a higher concentration formulation of ULTOMIRIS than the formulation initially approved in December 2018. ULTOMIRIS 100 mg/mL reduces average annual infusion times by approximately 60 percent compared to ULTOMIRIS 10 mg/mL while delivering safety and efficacy consistent with the ULTOMIRIS 10 mg/mL formulation.
In December 2020, Alexion initiated a Phase III, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ALXN1210 in HSCT-TMA.
In addition to aHUS, NMOSD, gMG, ALS, COVID-19 and HSCT-TMA, Alexion plans to initiate: (i) a Phase III study of ALXN1210 in complement mediated thrombotic microangiopathy (CM-TMA), (ii) a proof of concept basket study in renal indications, including Lupus Nephritis (LN) and Immunoglobulin A Nephropathy (IgAN) and (iii) a Phase II/III study in dermatomyositis (DM), a rare autoimmune inflammatory myopathy characterized by chronic inflammation and degeneration of muscle and skin.
Subcutaneous (SC) Delivery
In March 2019, Alexion initiated a PK-based Phase III study of ALXN1210 delivered subcutaneously once per week to PNH patients to support regulatory approval submissions in both PNH and aHUS. In June 2020, Alexion announced that the ongoing study met its primary objective of pharmacokinetic-based non-inferiority of ULTOMIRIS SC versus intravenous (IV) ULTOMIRIS at Day 71. Pending completion of the study and collection of required 12-month safety data, Alexion expects to file for approval in the U.S. and E.U. for the SC formulation and device combination in PNH and aHUS in the third quarter of 2021.
ALXN1720
ALXN1720 is a novel humanized bi-specific minibody that binds selectively and with high affinity to C5 and to albumin. ALXN1720 is designed for subcutaneous administration as a concentrated formulation for the treatment of disease states involving dysregulated terminal complement activity. In September 2019, Alexion initiated a Phase I healthy volunteer study of ALXN1720 to assess its safety and tolerability. This trial was paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic, but was re-initiated in August 2020. This trial was paused again in fourth quarter 2020 due to a second wave of COVID-19 and we expect to re-initiate it in the second quarter of 2021. Additionally, pending successful completion of the Phase I healthy volunteer study, we plan to initiate ALXN1720 trials in gMG and DM.
ALXN1820
ALXN1820 is a bispecific minibody binding to properdin and albumin and is a first-in-class therapeutic antagonist of properdin, with potent, selective activity, attractive PK-PD, subcutaneous bioavailability and safety. In December 2020, Alexion submitted a Clinical Trial Application to Human Research Ethics Committees (HREC) in Australia. 10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Approval was received and notification was sent to Australia’s Therapeutic Goods Administration for ALXN1820 in December 2020. In the first quarter of 2021, we initiated a healthy volunteers Phase I study. Early preclinical data for ALXN1820 indicate the potential for convenient, weekly, self-administered subcutaneous dosing. There are multiple potential indications for ALXN1820 across a number of therapeutic areas, including hematology, pulmonology, nephrology and dermatology, where properdin is believed to play an important role.
ALXN1830 (SYNT001)
ALXN1830 is a humanized monoclonal antibody that is designed to inhibit the interaction of the neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) with IgG and IgG immune complexes and has the potential to improve treatment in a number of rare IgG-mediated diseases. Alexion initiated a Phase I study of a SC formulation of ALXN1830 in healthy volunteers in December 2019. Alexion re-initiated a Phase II trial of the IV formulation in WAIHA in early 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Alexion discontinued the Phase II trial in WAIHA and the Phase I healthy volunteer study. A new Phase I healthy volunteer study is planned to be initiated in the first quarter of 2021, while the Phase II studies in WAIHA and gMG exclusively with the SC formulation are planned to start in the second half of 2021.
ALXN1840 (WTX101)
ALXN1840, an innovative product candidate that addresses the underlying cause of Wilson disease, is a first-in-class oral copper-binding agent with a unique mechanism of action and the ability to access and mobilize copper from tissue.
In February 2020, Alexion completed enrollment in a Phase III study of ALXN1840 for the treatment of Wilson disease. We expect top-line results from this Phase III study in the first half of 2021.
ALXN1850
ALXN1850 is an Enzyme Replacement Therapy replacing deficient alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and targets ALP substrates to improve bone mineralization and ameliorate systemic manifestations of the disease. It is a next generation HPP therapy that is designed to be provide higher activity, higher bioavailability, and longer half-life than STRENSIQ (asfotase alfa). These improvements may result in significant benefit for HPP patients, including potentially lower, less frequent doses, improved efficacy and lower injection volumes when compared to STRENSIQ. In November 2020, Alexion submitted an IND for ALXN1850 to the FDA and received approval to proceed with a Phase I study in HPP patients. We plan to initiate the Phase I study in the second quarter of 2021. ALXN1850 is designed for subcutaneous administration.ALXN2040 (danicopan/ACH-4771)
ALXN2040 is an oral Factor D inhibitor designed to treat diseases associated with dysregulation of the complement alternative pathway. ALXN2040 as an add on therapy to anti-C5 for PNH patients with clinically evident extravascular hemolysis (EVH) has received orphan drug and breakthrough therapy designation by the FDA and both orphan and PRIME designation by EMA. Two Phase II studies of ALXN2040 as an oral add-on therapy for PNH-EVH are ongoing, and a Phase III trial for PNH-EVH was initiated, with dosing of the first patient in the first quarter of 2021. Two Phase II studies previously initiated evaluating the safety, efficacy, pharmacokinetics, and pharmaco-dynamics of ALXN2040 in patients with C3G have been discontinued and we are no longer pursuing ALXN2040 as a treatment for C3G. Alexion plans to develop ALXN2050 in a variety of orphan renal indications including C3G. 
We plan to initiate a Phase II study of ALXN2040 in Geographic Atrophy, a chronic and progressive degeneration of the portion of the retina responsible for central and color vision and leading to permanent loss of visual acuity, in the second half of 2021.
ALXN2040 was added to the pipeline as a result of the Achillion acquisition.
ALXN2050 (ACH-5228)
ALXN2050 is an oral Factor D inhibitor designed to treat diseases associated with dysregulation of the complement alternative pathway. ALXN2050 is in a Phase II trial as a potential monotherapy treatment for PNH and is being evaluated for development in other alternative pathway-mediated rare diseases. We have paused additional enrollment in the Phase II study of ALXN2050 monotherapy that is underway in PNH patients, pending the receipt of further Phase I data (expected in the second quarter of 2021) that will allow for dose escalation in the Phase II study. Additionally, Alexion plans to initiate proof-of-concept trials of ALXN2050 in patients with various renal diseases in the first half of 2021. 
ALXN2050 was added to the pipeline as a result of the Achillion acquisition.
ALXN2060 (AG10)
In September 2019, Alexion entered into an agreement with Eidos Therapeutics, Inc. (Eidos), through which Alexion obtained an exclusive license to develop and commercialize AG10 in Japan for transthyretin amyloidosis (ATTR). AG10 is an orally administered small molecule in development designed to target the root cause of ATTR by stabilizing transthyretin (TTR) in the blood. Eidos is currently studying AG10 in a Phase III clinical trial in patients with ATTR cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM) and a Phase III 11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

clinical trial in patients with ATTR polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN), excluding Japan. In the fourth quarter 2020, Alexion initiated a single arm AG10 Phase III study in ATTR-CM in Japan. The Japan Phase III study data for ATTR-CM is expected to bridge to the global randomized controlled Phase III study being conducted by Eidos, and serve as the basis for seeking regulatory approval to commercialize AG10 in Japan.
ALXN2070 (ANDEXXA)
The acquisition of Portola added Portola’s commercialized medicine, ANDEXXA, for which additional clinical trials are currently being conducted to obtain full regulatory approvals and to expand the approved indications. As noted above, ANDEXXA has obtained accelerated approval in the US and conditional marketing authorization in the EU based on the change from baseline in anti-Factor Xa activity in healthy volunteers, and in patients through the ANNEXA-4 trial. Full approval in the US and EU for current indications requires completion of ANNEXA-I, a Phase IV randomized controlled clinical trial currently underway evaluating the safety and efficacy of ANDEXXA versus standard of care in patients presenting with acute intracranial hemorrhage while taking an oral Factor Xa inhibitor. A Japan J-NDA filing is planned for the first quarter 2021. A US supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) submission for a label expansion for the reversal of edoxaban and enoxaparin associated bleeds occurred in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Additionally, we plan to initiate a Phase II study in 2021 for the reversal of anticoagulation in patients taking apixaban, rivaroxaban, edoxaban, or enoxaparin who require urgent surgery. 
ALXN2075 (Cerdulatinib)
ALXN2075 (Cerdulatinib) is a small molecule SYK/JAK inhibitor in development for treatment of hematological malignancies. We are reviewing preliminary clinical data and considering Follicular Lymphoma as a next step in the program. A Phase I/IIa study is ongoing for the treatment of hematological malignancies. ALXN2075 was added to the pipeline portfolio as a result of the acquisition of Portola.
SOLIRIS (eculizumab)
SOLIRIS is an innovative C5 inhibitor discovered and developed by Alexion that works by inhibiting the C5 protein in the terminal complement cascade. SOLIRIS is a humanized monoclonal antibody that effectively blocks terminal complement activity at the doses currently prescribed.
In June 2020, Japan’s MHLW granted SAKIGAKE designation for SOLIRIS in Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS). Results from the Japanese eculizumab trial for GBS (JET-GBS study) suggested the potential efficacy and safety of SOLIRIS as a treatment for GBS. Complement activation may play a role in the pathophysiology of GBS. Alexion plans to initiate a Phase III study of SOLIRIS in GBS in Japan in the first half of 2021.
Manufacturing
We utilize both internal manufacturing facilities and third-party contract manufacturers to supply clinical and commercial quantities of our products and product candidates. Our internal manufacturing capability includes our Ireland facilities, a fill/finish facility in Athlone, and a packaging facility in Dublin, as well as a KANUMA production facility in Georgia. Third party contract manufacturers, including Lonza Group AG and its affiliates (Lonza), provide cell bank services, bulk drug substance, drug product and finished product, as well as other manufacturing services like purification, product filling, finishing, packaging, and labeling.
We have various agreements with Lonza to provide cell bank and drug substance through 2030, with remaining total non-cancellable commitments of approximately $1,137.8. If we terminate certain supply agreements with Lonza without cause, we will be required to pay for product scheduled for manufacture under our arrangements. Under an existing arrangement with Lonza, we pay Lonza a royalty on the sales of SOLIRIS and ULTOMIRIS manufactured at Lonza facilities. In the fourth quarter 2020, Lonza received FDA approval for a new manufacturing facility in New Hampshire that will manufacture STRENSIQ for commercial use. Commitments entered into under this arrangement are included in the non-cancellable commitments previously noted.
In addition, we have non-cancellable commitments of approximately $175.6 through 2023 with other third-party manufacturers.
In April 2014, we purchased a fill/finish facility in Athlone, Ireland, which has been refurbished to become our first company-owned fill/finish facility. We have also completed construction of a new biologics manufacturing facility at this site and we are currently pursuing regulatory approval.
In May 2015, we announced plans to construct a new biologics manufacturing facility on our existing property in Dublin, Ireland. Construction of this facility has been completed. In January 2021, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) approved the facility as a manufacturer of Drug Substance for SOLIRIS and we are currently pursuing regulatory approval by the FDA.
While we continue to actively engage with regulators, the timing of regulatory approvals for each of these facilities may be delayed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sales and Marketing
We have established a commercial organization to support current and future sales of our products in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Latin America, Asia Pacific countries, and other territories. Given our focus in rare diseases and devastating conditions, we have a relatively small sales force; however, we believe that the size of our sales force is appropriate to effectively market our products due to the incidence and prevalence of rare diseases and devastating conditions. If we receive regulatory approval in new territories or for new products or indications, we may expand our own commercial organizations in such territories and market and sell our products through our own sales force in these territories. However, we evaluate each jurisdiction on a country-by-country basis, and, in certain territories, we promote our products in collaboration with marketing partners or rely on relationships with one or more companies with established distribution systems and direct sales forces in certain countries. In addition, in selected geographies within our international commercial organization, we have transitioned from a direct sales model to an indirect sales model that relies to a greater extent or entirely on third-parties to promote, distribute and sell our products. We have also reallocated resources necessary to align our organization with our diversifying portfolio of new products and strategic objectives. We are making investments in digital capabilities, technologies and solutions to support a more virtual and digital customer experience, tailored to the markets in which we operate.
Customers
Our customers are primarily comprised of distributors, pharmacies, hospitals, hospital buying groups, and other healthcare providers. In some cases, we also sell our products to governments and government agencies. 
Our net product sales to three customers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation and Cardinal Health, Inc., each accounted for more than 10.0% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020 and on a combined basis, accounted for approximately 47.4%. Our net product sales to four customers, AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc. and PANTHERx Rare Pharmacy, each accounted for more than 10.0% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 and on a combined basis, accounted for approximately 56.4% and 50.3%, respectively.
Because of factors such as the pricing of our products, the limited number of patients, the short period from product sale to patient use and the lack of contractual return rights for SOLIRIS, ULTOMIRIS, STRENSIQ AND KANUMA, customers often carry limited inventory. ANDEXXA is administered almost exclusively in the hospital and urgent care setting. While ANDEXXA inventory on hand is also limited, there may be a longer period from product sale to patient use and a greater risk of return for product expiry.
Please also refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Net Product Sales, and Note 18, Segment Information of the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for financial information by geographic areas.
Intellectual Property Rights and Market Exclusivity
We rely on intellectual property rights to protect our investment in discovering, developing and marketing our marketed products, product candidates and investigational compounds. Accordingly, we own or license rights to many patents in the U.S. and foreign countries that cover our marketed products, product candidates and investigational compounds. We also file and prosecute many patent applications covering new technologies and inventions that we believe are or may become meaningful to our business. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, know-how, trademarks, other forms of intellectual property and regulatory exclusivity. Our intellectual property rights have, we believe, material value and we undertake reasonable measures to protect those rights.
Patent rights and regulatory protections are key factors that determine the period of market exclusivity for our products. It is during the period of market exclusivity that our products have their greatest commercial value.
Patents provide a right to exclude others from practicing an invention for a defined period of time. In our business, patents may cover the active ingredients, uses, formulations, doses, administrations, delivery mechanisms, manufacturing processes and other aspects of a product. The period of patent protection for any given product may depend on the expiration date of various patents and may differ from country to country according to the type of patents, the scope of coverage and the remedies for infringement available in a country. Because a significant portion of a biopharmaceutical product’s patent protection can elapse during the course of developing and obtaining regulatory approval of the product, certain countries, including the U.S., provide compensatory mechanisms to extend patent terms for biopharmaceutical products.
Regulatory protections are another source of exclusive rights that contribute toward market exclusivity for our products. Many developed countries provide such non-patent incentives to develop medicines. For example, countries provide data protection for a period of time after the approval of a 13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

new drug, during which regulatory agencies may not rely on the innovator’s data to approve a biosimilar or generic copy. Some countries provide additional incentives to develop medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and medicines for pediatric patients. Regulatory protections can work in conjunction with patents to strengthen market exclusivity, and in countries where patent protection has expired or does not exist, regulatory protections can be the basis a product’s market exclusivity period. Different forms of regulatory protection are described in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K titled Government Regulation. 
Intellectual property rights in our industry are often disputed. For information regarding legal actions that pertain to ULTOMIRIS and SOLIRIS intellectual property rights, refer to Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies to the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
SOLIRIS Exclusivity
With respect to SOLIRIS, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the eculizumab composition of matter that will expire in 2021, taking into account patent term extension. We also own other issued U.S. patents that cover the composition, use and formulation of eculizumab, that expire in 2027. SOLIRIS also benefits from orphan drug exclusivity for treating gMG until 2024 and for treating NMOSD until 2026 (orphan drug exclusivity for SOLIRIS for treating PNH and aHUS in the U.S. previously expired). In Europe, SOLIRIS is protected by orphan drug exclusivity through late 2023 for aHUS, until 2027 for gMG and until 2029 for NMOSD (orphan drug exclusivity for SOLIRIS for treating PNH in Europe previously expired). In Japan, we own an issued patent that covers the eculizumab composition of matter and will expire in 2027. SOLIRIS is also protected in Japan by orphan drug exclusivity until 2027 for gMG and until 2029 for NMOSD (orphan drug exclusivity for SOLIRIS for treating PNH in Japan previously expired). In addition to the foregoing patent and regulatory protections, we own other patents and pending patent applications that are directed to various aspects of eculizumab and which may provide additional protection for SOLIRIS in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other countries. 
On January 21, 2019, the Opposition Division of the European Patent Office determined, following multi-party opposition proceedings, to revoke our European patent No. 2359834, which relates to the formulation of SOLIRIS. This decision is currently under appeal. 
While we have the patent rights to SOLIRIS as detailed above, on August 30, 2019, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office instituted inter partes review (IPR) of three of our patents that relate to SOLIRIS. In May 2020, we entered into a Confidential Settlement and License Agreement with Amgen to settle the three IPRs (Settlement Agreement). Pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, Alexion and Amgen have terminated each of the pending IPRs and, effective March 1, 2025 (or an earlier date in certain circumstances), Alexion grants to Amgen (and its affiliates and certain partners) a non-exclusive, royalty-free, license under U.S. patents and patent applications related to eculizumab and various aspects of the eculizumab product that Alexion currently markets and sells under the tradename SOLIRIS. 
ULTOMIRIS Exclusivity
With respect to ULTOMIRIS, we own issued U.S., European and Japanese patents that cover the composition of matter, use and formulation of ravulizumab that will expire in 2035. ULTOMIRIS is also protected by orphan drug exclusivity for treating PNH in the U.S. until 2025 and in Japan until 2029. ULTOMIRIS is also protected in Japan by orphan drug exclusivity for treating PNH until 2029. In addition to the foregoing patent and regulatory protections, we own other patents and pending patent applications that are directed to various aspects of ULTOMIRIS and which may provide additional protection for ULTOMIRIS in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other countries.
STRENSIQ Exclusivity
With respect to STRENSIQ, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the asfotase alfa composition of matter that will expire in 2029, including patent term restoration. STRENSIQ is also protected in the U.S. by orphan drug exclusivity until 2022. In Europe, we own two issued patents that cover the asfotase alfa composition of matter and these will expire in 2025 and 2028. Additionally, we have received supplementary protection certificates that extend the patent protection until 2030 in many European countries. STRENSIQ is also protected in Europe by orphan drug exclusivity until 2027. In Japan, STRENSIQ is protected by an issued patent that covers the asfotase alfa composition of matter until 2028 and by orphan drug exclusivity until 2025. In addition to the foregoing patent and regulatory protections, we own other patents and pending patent applications that are directed to various aspects of STRENSIQ and which may provide additional protection for STRENSIQ in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other countries.
KANUMA Exclusivity
With respect to KANUMA, we own issued patents in the U.S., Europe and Japan that cover the composition of matter and/or methods of using the product to treat LAL-D that will expire in 2031. We maintained the European patent in an opposition 14
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

proceeding that was favorably resolved in 2017. An exclusively licensed composition of matter patent that has been extended to 2026 via supplementary protection certificates further protects KANUMA in certain European countries. KANUMA also is protected by orphan drug exclusivity until 2022, 2027 and 2026 in the U.S., Europe and Japan, respectively.
ANDEXXA/ONDEXXYA Exclusivity
With respect to ANDEXXA, we own an issued U.S. patent that covers the andexanet alfa composition of matter and has an expiration in 2030. A pending application for patent term extension could extend the expiration to 2032. ANDEXXA is also protected in the U.S. by orphan drug exclusivity until 2025. In Europe, we own two issued patents that cover the andexanet alfa composition of matter and have expirations in 2028. Additionally, we have applied for supplementary protection certificates that could extend the patent protection until 2033 in many European countries. In Japan, we own an issued patent that covers the andexanet alfa composition of matter and has an expiration in 2028. In addition to the foregoing patent and regulatory protections, we own other patents and pending patent applications that are directed to various aspects of ANDEXXA/ONDEXXYA and which may provide additional protection for ANDEXXA/ONDEXXYA in the U.S., Europe, Japan and other countries.
Investigational Compounds 
We also own U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications that protect our investigational compounds and product candidates. At present, we do not know whether any such investigational compound or product candidate will be approved for human use and sale.
Asset Acquisition and In-License Agreements
From time to time, we enter into arrangements with third parties, including asset purchase agreements, licensing arrangements, and option agreements in order to advance and obtain technologies and services related to our business. These strategic alliances are intended to strengthen and advance our R&D capabilities and diversify our product pipeline to support the growth of our marketed product base. The arrangements, which generally provide Alexion with rights to specialized technology and intellectual property for the development of potential product candidates, often require us to pay an initial fee and certain agreements call for future payments upon the attainment of agreed upon development, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. These agreements may also require minimum royalty payments based on sales of products developed from the applicable technologies, if any.Importance of Intellectual Property Exclusivities and Rights
The pharmaceutical industry places considerable importance on obtaining and enforcing patent (including licensed patents), trade secret and other intellectual property protection for new therapies, technologies, products, services and processes. Our success therefore depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce our patents (including licensed patents) and other intellectual property rights necessary to protect our current and future products, to obtain and preserve our trade secrets and other confidential intellectual property and to avoid or neutralize intellectual property threats from third parties. The existence of patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Litigation, oppositions, inter partes reviews or other proceedings are, have been and may in the future be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our patents, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights, and in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. We may also face challenges to our patents, regulatory exclusivities and other proprietary rights covering our products by manufacturers of biosimilars. For additional information, see Item 1A, Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Government Regulation 
Drug Development and Approval in the United States 
The preclinical studies and clinical testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, advertising, promotion, regulatory approval pharmacovigilance reporting, export, and marketing, among other things, of our products and product candidates, including ULTOMIRIS, SOLIRIS, STRENSIQ, KANUMA and ANDEXXA, are subject to extensive regulation by governmental authorities in the U.S., the EU, Japan and other territories. In the U.S., pharmaceutical products are regulated by the FDA under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and other laws, including, in the case of biologics, the Public Health Service Act. Our five approved products are regulated by the FDA as biologics. Biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) and approval by the FDA prior to being marketed in the U.S. In the case of KANUMA, which is derived from egg whites from select hens, we also submitted a New Animal Drug Application (NADA) for approval by the FDA. Manufacturers of biologics and drugs derived from animal origin may also be subject to state regulation. We also have product candidates, including our Factor D pipeline assets ALXN2040 and ALXN2050, and 15
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ALXN1840 that are small molecule compounds and, if we complete trials and request approval to market these products, these small molecules require the submission of a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA. Failure to comply with FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements, both before and after product approval, may subject us and/or our partners, distributors, contract manufacturers, and suppliers to administrative or judicial sanctions, including FDA refusal to approve applications, warning letters, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, fines and/or criminal prosecution.
The process for obtaining regulatory approval to market a biologic or small molecule is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based on the type, complexity, and novelty of the product candidates involved. The steps required before a pharmaceutical may be approved for marketing of an indication in the U.S. generally include:
(1) preclinical laboratory tests and animal tests;
(2) submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug (IND) application for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence;
(3) adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the product for its intended use;
(4) submission to the FDA of a BLA or supplemental BLA in the case of a biologic or an NDA or supplemental NDA in the case of a small molecule compound;
(5) FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing sites identified in the BLA or NDA; and
(6) FDA review and approval of the BLA, supplemental BLA, NDA or supplemental NDA.
Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as toxicological and pharmacological animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate. Preclinical safety tests intended for submission to FDA must be conducted in compliance with FDA’s Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) regulations and the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal Welfare Act. The results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, are submitted to the FDA as part of an IND application which must become effective before human clinical trials may be commenced. The IND will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, before that time, raises concerns about the drug candidate or the conduct of the trials as outlined in the IND. The IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before clinical trials can proceed. We cannot assure you that submission of an IND will result in FDA authorization to commence clinical trials or that once commenced, other concerns will not arise that will prevent the trials from moving forward. FDA may stop the clinical trials by placing them on “clinical hold” because of concerns about the safety of the product being tested, or for other reasons.
Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to healthy volunteers or to patients, under the supervision of qualified principal investigators. The conduct of clinical trials is subject to extensive regulation, including compliance with the FDA’s bioresearch monitoring regulations and Good Clinical Practice (GCP) requirements, which establish standards for conducting, recording data from, and reporting the results of clinical trials, and are intended to assure that the data and reported results are credible and accurate, and that the rights, safety, and well-being of study participants are protected. Clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with protocols that detail the objectives of the study, the criteria for determining subject eligibility, the dosing plan, patient monitoring requirements, timely reporting of adverse events, and other elements necessary to ensure patient safety, and any efficacy criteria to be evaluated. Each protocol must be submitted to FDA as part of the IND; further, each clinical study at each clinical site must be reviewed and approved by an independent institutional review board, prior to the recruitment of subjects. The institutional review board’s role is to protect the rights and welfare of human subjects involved in clinical studies by evaluating, among other things, the potential risks and benefits to subjects, processes for obtaining informed consent, monitoring of data to ensure subject safety, and provisions to protect the subjects’ privacy. Foreign studies conducted under an IND application must meet the same requirements that apply to studies being conducted in the U.S. Data from a foreign study not conducted under an IND may be submitted in support of a BLA or an NDA if the study was conducted in accordance with GCP and FDA is able to validate the data.
Clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap and different trials may be initiated with the same drug candidate within the same phase of development in similar or differing patient populations. Phase I studies may be conducted in a limited number of patients, but are usually conducted in healthy volunteer subjects. The drug is usually tested for safety and, as appropriate, for absorption, metabolism, distribution, excretion, pharmaco-dynamics and pharmaco-kinetics. Phase II usually 16
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

involves studies in a larger, but still limited patient population to evaluate preliminarily the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific, targeted indications; to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; and to identify possible short-term adverse effects and safety risks.
Phase III trials are undertaken to gather additional information to evaluate the product’s overall risk-benefit profile, and to provide a basis for product labeling. Phase III trials evaluate clinical efficacy of a specific endpoint(s) and test further for safety within an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical study sites. Phase I, Phase II or Phase III testing might not be completed successfully within any specific time period, if at all, with respect to any of our product candidates. Results from one trial are not necessarily predictive of results from later trials. Furthermore, the FDA, sponsor or institutional review board may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. For example, we paused enrollment for our Phase III trial of ULTOMIRIS in adults with COVID-19, who are hospitalized with severe COVID-19 requiring mechanical ventilation because of lack of efficacy following the recommendation of an IDMC.
In certain circumstances, regulatory authorities, including the FDA, can require a product undergo a Phase IV trial. Phase IV trials are post-marketing studies, which are conducted after a product is approved for use by the regulatory authority, in order to provide additional information including the product’s risks, benefits, and best use. While the requirement for Phase IV is not a regulatory requirement for approval for every product, it is imposed at the discretion of the regulatory authority. For example, the accelerated approval of ANDEXXA in the U.S. and the granting of a Conditional Marketing Authorization in the EU for current indications required completion of ANNEXA-I, a Phase IV randomized controlled multicenter clinical trial, which is currently underway and designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ANDEXXA versus standard of care in patients presenting with acute intracranial hemorrhage while taking an oral Factor Xa inhibitor. 
We must register each controlled clinical trial, other than Phase I trials, on a website administered by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) (http://clinicaltrials.gov). Registration must occur no later than 21 days after the first patient is enrolled, and the submission must include descriptive information (e.g., a summary in lay terms of the study design, type and desired outcome), recruitment information (e.g., target number of participants and whether healthy volunteers are accepted), location and contact information, and other administrative data (e.g., FDA identification numbers). Within one year of a trial’s completion, information about the trial including characteristics of the patient sample, primary and secondary outcomes, trial results written in lay and technical terms, and the full trial protocol must be submitted to the NIH. The results information is posted to the website unless the drug has not yet been approved, in which case the NIH posts the information shortly after approval. A BLA, BLA supplement, NDA, NDA supplement and certain other submissions to the FDA require certification of compliance with these clinical trials database requirements.
The results of the preclinical studies and clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including information on the manufacture and composition of the product and proposed labeling for the product, are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA or NDA requesting approval to market the product candidate for a proposed indication. Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, as amended, the fees payable to the FDA for reviewing a BLA or NDA, as well as annual fees for commercial manufacturing establishments and for approved products, can be substantial. The review fee alone can exceed $2.0 subject to certain limited deferrals, waivers and reductions that may be available. Each BLA and NDA submitted to the FDA for approval is typically reviewed for administrative completeness and reviewability within sixty days following submission of the application. If the FDA finds the submission sufficiently complete, the FDA will “file” the application, thus triggering a full review of the application. The FDA may refuse to file any BLA or NDA that it deems incomplete or not properly reviewable at the time of submission. The FDA performance goals provide for action on an application within 12 months of submission. The FDA, however, may not approve a drug within these established goals and its review goals are subject to change from time to time because the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. As part of its review, the FDA may refer the BLA or NDA to an advisory committee composed of outside experts for evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved.
Further, the outcome of the FDA review, even if generally favorable, may not be an actual approval but instead a “complete response letter” communicating the FDA’s decision not to approve the application, outlining the deficiencies in the application, and identifying what information and/or data (including additional pre-clinical or clinical data) is required before the application can be approved. Even if such additional information and data are submitted, the FDA may decide that the application still does not meet the standards for approval. Data from clinical trials are not always conclusive and the FDA may interpret data differently than we do.17
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before approving a BLA or NDA, the FDA typically will inspect the facilities at which the product is manufactured and will not approve the product unless the facilities comply with the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) requirements. The FDA may deny approval of an application if applicable statutory or regulatory criteria are not satisfied, or may require additional testing or information. FDA approval of any BLA or NDA may include many delays and requests for additional information or never be granted. If a product is approved, the approval will impose limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed, may require that warning statements be included in the product labeling, and may require that additional studies be conducted following approval as a condition of the approval (as is the case with ANDEXXA, where the FDA’s continued approval is contingent upon post-marketing study results that verify clinical benefit is conferred to patients). The FDA also may impose restrictions and conditions on product distribution, prescribing or dispensing in the form of a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS), or otherwise limit the scope of any approval. A REMS may include various elements, ranging from a medication guide to limitations on who may prescribe or dispense the drug, depending on what the FDA considers necessary for the safe use of the drug. To market a product for other indicated uses beyond those in the product label, or to make certain manufacturing or other changes, requires FDA review and approval of a BLA supplement or new BLA (or NDA or NDA supplement in the case of a small molecule compound) and the payment of applicable review fees. Further post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of a product may be required. In addition, new government requirements may be established that could delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates under development.
In 2010, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA) was enacted, creating a statutory pathway for licensure, or approval, of biological products that are biosimilar to, and possibly interchangeable with, reference biological products licensed under the Public Health Service Act. The objectives of the BPCIA are conceptually similar to those of the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the “Hatch-Waxman Act”, which established abbreviated pathways for the approval of small molecule drug products. Under the BPCIA, innovator manufacturers of original reference biological products are granted 12 years of exclusive use before biosimilar versions of such products can be licensed for marketing in the U.S. This means that the FDA may not approve an application for a biosimilar version of a reference biological product until 12 years after the date of approval of the reference biological product (with a potential six-month extension of exclusivity if certain pediatric studies are conducted and the results reported to FDA), although a biosimilar application may be submitted four years after the date of licensure of the reference biological product. Additionally, the BPCIA establishes procedures by which the biosimilar applicant must provide information about its application and product to the reference product sponsor, and by which information about potentially relevant patents is shared and litigation over patents may proceed in advance of approval. The BPCIA also provides a period of exclusivity for the first biosimilar to be determined by the FDA to be interchangeable with the reference product.
The FDA has released numerous guidance documents interpreting the BPCIA in recent years. These guidance documents, among other things, elaborate on the definition of a biosimilar as a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved biological product, notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the approved biological product in terms of the safety, purity, and potency. The FDA has also released final guidance documents on the assignment of clearly distinguishable nonproprietary product names for both biologic and biosimilar products, labeling for biosimilar products, considerations in demonstrating interchangeability with a reference product, including a biologic, and questions and answers on issues involving biosimilar development. FDA has also issued a draft guidance for biologics and interchangeable biosimilars regarding the licensure for fewer than all conditions of use for which the reference product has been licensed. 
The FDA approved the first biosimilar product under the BPCIA in 2015 and, as of December 2020, twenty nine (29) biosimilar products have been approved in total. The agency continues to refine the procedures and standards it will apply in implementing this approval pathway. In July 2018, the FDA issued a Biosimilars Action Plan, asserting its intent to take steps to facilitate biosimilars competition. We anticipate that the contours of the BPCIA will continue to be defined as the statute is implemented over a period of years. This likely will be accomplished by a variety of means, including FDA issuance of guidance documents, proposed regulations, and decisions in the course of considering specific applications. Also, in 2019, the CREATES Act was signed, which requires that product manufacturers timely sell comparator trial supply at a commercially reasonable price (no more than the manufacturers wholesale acquisition cost) to biosimilar developers. The approval of a biologic product biosimilar to one of our products, including 18
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SOLIRIS, could have a material impact on our business because it may be significantly less costly to bring to market, may be priced significantly lower than our products, and result in a reduction in the pricing and reimbursement of our products.
Both before and after the FDA approves a product, the manufacturer and the holder or holders of the BLA or NDA, and in the case of KANUMA, the NADA, for the product are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight. If ongoing regulatory requirements are not satisfied or if safety problems occur after the product reaches the market, the FDA may at any time withdraw its approval or take actions that would suspend marketing. For example, quality control and manufacturing procedures must conform, on an ongoing basis, to cGMP requirements, and the FDA periodically subjects manufacturing facilities to unannounced inspections to assess compliance with cGMP. Failure to comply with applicable cGMP requirements and other conditions of product approval may lead the FDA to take regulatory action, including fines, recalls, civil penalties, injunctions, suspension of manufacturing operations, operating restrictions, withdrawal of FDA approval, seizure or recall of products, and criminal prosecution. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to spend time, money, and effort to maintain cGMP compliance.
The FDA and other federal regulatory agencies also closely regulate the promotion of drugs and biologics through, among other things, standards and regulations for direct-to-consumer advertising, communications regarding unapproved uses, industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities, and promotional activities involving the Internet and social media. A product cannot be commercially promoted before it is approved. After approval, product promotion can include only those claims relating to safety and effectiveness that are consistent with the labeling approved by the FDA. Healthcare providers are permitted to prescribe drugs and biologics for uses not approved by the FDA and therefore not described in the product’s labeling - because the FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine. However, FDA regulations impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers’ communications regarding such uses. Broadly speaking, a manufacturer may not promote a drug or biologic for an unapproved use, but may engage in non-promotional, balanced communication regarding such uses under certain conditions. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements and restrictions in this area may subject a company to adverse publicity and enforcement action by the FDA, the Department of Justice, or the Office of the Inspector General (OIG) of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), as well as state authorities. Noncompliance could subject a company to a range of penalties that could have a significant commercial impact, including civil and criminal fines and agreements that materially restrict the manner in which a company promotes or distributes drug or biologic products.
Orphan Drug Designation in the U.S., the EU and Other Foreign Jurisdictions
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs and biological products intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than two hundred thousand individuals in the U.S. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA, supplemental BLA, NDA or supplemental NDA. If the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are publicly disclosed by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for that drug or biologic for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to an orphan exclusivity period, in which the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug or biologic for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as where the sponsor of a different version of the product is able to demonstrate that its product is clinically superior to the approved orphan drug product. This exclusivity does not prevent a competitor from obtaining approval to market a different product that treats the same disease or condition or the same product to treat a different disease or condition. The FDA can revoke a product’s orphan drug exclusivity under certain circumstances, including when the holder of the approved orphan drug application is unable to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the drug to meet patient needs. A sponsor of a product application that has received an orphan drug designation is also granted U.S. federal tax incentives for clinical research undertaken to support the application. In addition, the FDA will typically coordinate with the sponsor on research study design for an orphan drug and may exercise its discretion to grant marketing approval on the basis of more limited product safety and efficacy data than would ordinarily be required.
In the EU, medicinal products: (a) that are used to treat or prevent life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions that affect no more than five in ten thousand people in the EU when the application is made; or (b) that are used to treat or prevent life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions and that, for economic reasons, would be unlikely to be developed without incentives; and (c) where no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition concerned exists, or, if 19
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

such a method exists, the medicinal product would be of significant benefit to those affected by the condition, may be granted an orphan designation. The application for orphan designation must be submitted to the EMA and approved before an application is made for marketing authorization for the product. Once authorized, orphan medicinal products are entitled to up to ten years of market exclusivity (which may be extended for an additional two years if pediatric data have been produced in accordance with an agreed pediatric investigational plan). During this ten year period, with a limited number of exceptions, neither the competent authorities of the EU Member States, the EMA, or the EC are permitted to accept applications or grant marketing authorization for other similar medicinal products with the same therapeutic indication. However, marketing authorization may be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication during the ten year period with the consent of the marketing authorization holder for the original orphan medicinal product or if the manufacturer of the original orphan medicinal product is unable to supply sufficient quantities. Marketing authorization may also be granted to a similar medicinal product with the same orphan indication if this latter product is safer, more efficacious or otherwise clinically superior to the original orphan medicinal product. The period of market exclusivity may, in addition, be reduced to six years if it can be demonstrated on the basis of available evidence that the criteria for orphan designation are no longer met or if the orphan medicinal product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity.
ULTOMIRIS has received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with PNH in the U.S. and Japan, and for the subcutaneous treatment of patients with aHUS in the U.S. SOLIRIS has received orphan drug designation for (a) aHUS in the EU and in several other territories; (b) the prevention of delayed graft function in renal transplant patients in the U.S.; (c) the treatment of patients with gMG in the U.S., Japan and the EU; and (d) for the treatment of NMOSD in the U.S., EU and Japan. In 2008, STRENSIQ received orphan drug designation for the treatment of patients with HPP in the U.S. and the EU, and in Japan in November 2014. Furthermore, in 2010, KANUMA received orphan drug designation for the treatment of LAL-D in the U.S., the EU and Japan. Finally, ANDEXXA has received orphan drug designation in the U.S. as a reversal agent for patients treated with rivaroxaban or apixaban, when reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Certain products in our pipeline, including ALXN2040, have received the orphan drug designation. As noted above, orphan drug designation provides certain regulatory and filing fee advantages, including market exclusivity, except in limited circumstances, for several years after approval.
Breakthrough Designation in the U.S.
Congress has created the Breakthrough Therapy designation program under which the FDA may grant Breakthrough Therapy status to a drug intended for the treatment of a serious condition when preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement on a clinically significant endpoint over existing therapies. The Breakthrough Therapy designation, which may be requested by a sponsor when filing or amending an IND, is intended to facilitate and expedite the development and FDA review of a product candidate. Specifically, the Breakthrough Therapy designation may entitle the sponsor to more frequent meetings with FDA during drug development, intensive guidance on clinical trial design, and expedited FDA review by a cross-disciplinary team comprised of senior managers. The designation does not guarantee a faster development or review time as compared to other drugs however, nor does it assure that the drug will obtain ultimate marketing approval by the FDA. Once granted, the FDA may withdraw this designation at any time if subsequent data no longer support the breakthrough therapy designation. We have received Breakthrough Therapy designations for STRENSIQ for HPP in perinatal-, infant-, and juvenile-onset patients; for KANUMA in the treatment of LAL-D presenting in infants and for ANDEXXA for patients treated with direct FXa inhibitors when reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. It is difficult for us to predict the impact that these designations will have on the development and FDA review of our products.
21st Century Cures Act (the Cures Act)
In December 2016, Congress passed the Cures Act which included a number of provisions designed to speed development of innovative therapies, provide funding authorization to the NIH, and provide funding for certain oncology-directed research. Because the FDA is still working to implement many aspects of the Cures Act, its potential effect on our business remains unclear with the exception of a provision requiring that we post our policies on the availability of expanded access programs for individuals. In addition, the Cures Act includes provisions requiring the FDA to assess and publish guidance on the use of novel clinical trial designs, the use of real world evidence in applications, the availability of summary level review for supplemental applications for certain indications, and the qualification of drug development tools. Because these provisions allow the FDA to spend several years developing these policies, the effect on us could be delayed. At this time, we cannot anticipate what effect these future policies may have on our business.20
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Cures Act also authorized $1,800.0 in funding for the “Cancer Moonshot” initiative (the Initiative) over a seven-year period to be run by the National Cancer Institute under the NIH. The Initiative’s strategic goals encourage inter-agency cooperation and fund research and innovation to catalyze new scientific breakthroughs, bring new therapies to patients, and strengthen prevention and diagnosis. The Initiative aims to stimulate drug development through the creation of a public-private partnership with 20 to 30 pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to expedite cancer researchers’ access to investigational agents and approved drugs. This partnership is designed to permit researchers to obtain drugs and other technologies from a preapproved “formulary” list without having to negotiate with each company for individual research projects. We will continue to monitor these developments but cannot currently assess how the Initiative may impact our business.
Right to Try Act
The Right to Try Act was signed into law on May 30, 2018. The law provides an access pathway for eligible patients (as defined under the law) who have been diagnosed with life-threatening diseases or conditions and have tried all approved treatment options and are unable to participate in a clinical trial to obtain certain investigational or unapproved treatments, each as defined under the law.
As a clinical trial sponsor, when requested, Alexion is required to provide eligible patients or their providers with information about whether our products are considered an eligible investigational drug under Right to Try and if we would provide products under the Right to Try Act.
Foreign Regulation of Drug Development and Approval
In addition to regulations in the U.S., we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements including those governing drug development, pre-clinical trials, human clinical trials, marketing approval, manufacturing, pharmacovigilance and post-marketing regulation for drugs. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval set forth above, as well as additional country-specific regulations. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. Approval by one regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. The approval process varies from country to country, can involve additional testing beyond that required by FDA, and the approval process may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing, promotion, and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country.
Under the EU regulatory process and system, we may submit applications for marketing authorizations either under a centralized, decentralized, or mutual recognition marketing authorization procedure. The centralized procedure provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization for a medicinal product by the EC on the basis of a positive opinion by the EMA Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) and is mandatory for certain categories of medicinal products, such as orphan medicinal products. A centralized marketing authorization is valid for all EU Member States and the European Economic Area (EEA) states and such marketing authorization applications may be eligible for accelerated assessment if the CHMP decides the product is of major interest for the public health and therapeutic innovations. The decentralized procedure and the mutual recognition procedure apply between EU Member States. The decentralized marketing authorization procedure involves the submission of an application for marketing authorization to the competent authority of all EU member states in which the product is to be marketed. One national competent authority, selected by the applicant, assesses the application for marketing authorization. The competent authorities of the other EU Member States are subsequently required to grant marketing authorization for their territory on the basis of this assessment, except where grounds of potential serious risk to public health require this authorization to be refused. The mutual recognition procedure provides for mutual recognition of marketing authorizations delivered by the national competent authorities of EU Member States by the competent authorities of other EU Member States. The holder of a national marketing authorization may submit an application to the competent authority of an EU Member State requesting that this authority recognize the marketing authorization delivered by the competent authority of another EU Member State for the same medicinal product. The EC may agree upon recommendation of the EMA to grant for medicines designated as orphan medicines a (i) conditional marketing authorization in the interest of public health under certain conditions; namely that unmet medical needs will be fulfilled, the benefit-risk balance of the product is positive, the benefit to public health of the medicinal product’s immediate availability on the market outweighs the risks due to need for further data and it is likely that the applicant will be able to provide comprehensive data; or (ii) marketing authorization under “exceptional circumstances” when the applicant can show that it is unable to provide comprehensive data on the efficacy and safety under normal conditions of use and subject to specific procedures being introduced. This may arise in 21
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

particular when the intended indications are very rare, in the present state of scientific knowledge, it is not possible to provide comprehensive information, or when generating data may be contrary to generally accepted ethical principles.
Similar to the U.S., both marketing authorization holders and manufacturers of medicinal products are subject to comprehensive regulatory oversight by the EMA and the competent authorities of the individual EU Member States both before and after grant of the manufacturing and marketing authorizations. This includes control of compliance by the companies within the EU legal framework (i.e., GCP, GLP, cGMP and pharmacovigilance rules, which govern quality control of the manufacturing process and require documentation policies and procedures). We and our third party manufacturers are required under regulations to ensure that all of our processes, methods, and equipment are compliant with GCP, GLP, cGMP and pharmacovigilance rules. The EMA and national competent authorities have in the past, and expect that they will continue to, arrange inspections to ensure that we adhere to these principles and regulations. Any adverse findings from such inspections, depending on their severity, may result in significant delays in obtaining a marketing authorization, may impose penalties or may result in other action by regulatory authorities.
Failure by us or by any of our third party partners, including suppliers, manufacturers, marketers and distributors to comply with EU laws and the related national laws of individual EU Member States governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing approval, marketing authorization of medicinal products, pre-approval promotion of products, reporting of adverse health events, both before and after grant of marketing authorization, and marketing/promotion of such products following grant of authorization may result in administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. These penalties could include delays in or refusal to authorize the conduct of clinical trials or to grant marketing authorization, product withdrawals and recalls, product seizures, suspension, or variation of the marketing authorization, total or partial suspension of production, distribution, manufacturing, or clinical trials, operating restrictions, injunctions, suspension of licenses, fines, and criminal penalties.
In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation, (EU) No 536/2014, which will replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. To ensure that the rules for clinical trials are identical throughout the EU, the new EU clinical trials legislation was passed as a regulation that is directly applicable in all EU Member States without the need for implementation into the Member States’ national laws. All clinical trials performed in the EU are required to be conducted in accordance with the Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC until the new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 becomes applicable. According to the current plans of the EMA, the new Clinical Trials Regulation will become applicable in late 2021 or early 2022. The Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC will, however, still apply three years from the date of entry into application of the Clinical Trials Regulation to (i) clinical trials applications submitted before the entry into application and (ii) clinical trials applications submitted within one year after the entry into application if the sponsor opts for old regulatory framework.
The new Clinical Trials Regulation aims to simplify and streamline the approval of clinical trials in the EU. The main characteristics of the regulation include: a streamlined application procedure via a single entry point, the EU portal; a single set of documents to be prepared and submitted for the application, as well as simplified reporting procedures that will spare sponsors from submitting broadly identical information separately to various bodies and different member states; and harmonized procedure for the assessment of applications for clinical trials, which is divided in two parts.
The EU has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005 and has approved several biosimilar products. In addition, in February 2017 the EMA launched a pilot project with the aim of providing scientific advice to companies for the development of new biosimilar products.
The approval of a biosimilar of one of our products marketed in the EU could have a material impact on our business. The biosimilar may be less costly to bring to market, may be priced significantly lower than our products, and result in a reduction in the pricing and reimbursement of our products.
Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement 
Sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the extent of coverage and reimbursement from third party payers, including government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S, as well as private health insurers. Third party payers are sensitive to the cost of drugs and are increasingly seeking to implement cost containment measures to control, restrict access to, or influence the purchase of drugs, biologics, and other health care products and services. For example, governments may regulate reimbursement, pricing, and coverage of products in order to control costs or to affect utilization levels of certain products. In addition, private health insurance plans may take additional actions as well, including restricting coverage of some products, such as by using drug formularies under which only select drugs or uses of select drugs are covered, through the implementation 22
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

of variable patient co-payment obligations that make non-preferred drugs more expensive for patients, and by employing utilization management controls, such as requirements for prior authorization or prior failure on another type of treatment before the insurer will cover and reimburse a particular therapy. Payers may especially impose these obstacles in connection with the coverage for higher-priced drugs such as those we sell. Consequently, all of our products may be subject to payer-driven restrictions, rendering patients responsible for a higher percentage of the total cost of drugs in the outpatient setting or there may be no coverage at all. Certain payers have in the past, and may in the future, remove our products from their existing formularies and, as a result, beneficiaries no longer have access to our products. These measures can lower the demand for our products, including if the increased patient cost-sharing obligations are more than patients can afford.
Medicare is a U.S. federal government insurance program that covers individuals aged 65 years or older, as well as individuals of any age with certain disabilities, individuals with end-stage renal disease and ALS. Our products when used by Medicare beneficiaries are primarily reimbursed by Medicare under Medicare Part B, which generally covers physician services and outpatient care, including some outpatient prescription drugs under limited conditions, and Medicare Part D, which provides an outpatient prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries. In addition, ANDEXXA, which is used in the urgent care setting in order to reverse the effects of certain anticoagulant medications for patients suffering sever bleeds, is covered by Medicare Part A, which covers, among other things, in-patient care in a hospital.
Generally speaking, Medicare Part B provides limited coverage of certain outpatient drugs and biologics that are reasonable and necessary for diagnosis or treatment of an illness or injury. Under Part B, reimbursement for most drugs is based on a fixed percentage above the applicable product’s average sales price (ASP). Manufacturers calculate ASP based on a statutory formula and must report ASP information to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency within HHS that administers Medicare and the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, on a quarterly basis. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare pays physicians and suppliers ASP plus 6.0% for most Part B-covered drugs and biologics. Medicare payment for separately payable Part B drugs reimbursed through the hospital outpatient prospective payment system is generally under the discretion of CMS, meaning it can be changed without legislative action from Congress. The current reimbursement rate for most separately payable Part B drugs used in the hospital outpatient setting is ASP plus 6.0%. One exception, however, is that, effective January 1, 2018, Medicare pays certain 340B covered entities at ASP minus 22.5% (or 77.5% of ASP) for separately payable Part-B covered drugs and biologics that were purchased under the 340B Program in a hospital outpatient setting, as discussed further below. In addition, the sequester that is currently in place through 2030 (which Congress temporarily suspended from May 1, 2020 through March 31 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic) reduces the portion of the payment paid by Medicare by 2.0%, which results in a net payment rate equivalent to ASP plus 4.3%. The sequester affects other Medicare payments, and the overall 2.0% sequester rate is discussed in more detail below. In both settings (i.e., physician office and hospital outpatient), the amount of reimbursement is updated quarterly based on the manufacturer’s submission of new ASP information. 
Medicare Part D is an outpatient prescription drug benefit available to all Medicare beneficiaries. It is a benefit that is implemented through private insurance plans under contractual arrangements between the plans and the federal government. Similar to pharmaceutical coverage through private health insurance, Part D plans develop formularies, impose utilization controls (such as prior authorization, step therapy, and quantity limits), and negotiate discounts from drug manufacturers. Because of this, the list of prescription drugs covered by Part D plans varies by plan. However, with limited exceptions, individual plans are required by statute to cover certain therapeutic categories and classes of drugs or biologics and to have at least two drugs in each unique therapeutic category or class.
Our products can also be provided under Medicare Parts A and C (Medicare Advantage, as discussed below). Medicare Part A generally covers inpatient hospital benefits and other inpatient facility stays. Hospitals typically receive a single payment for an inpatient stay depending on the Medicare Severity Diagnosis Related Group (MS-DRG) to which the inpatient stay is assigned. The MS-DRG for a hospital inpatient stay varies based on the patient’s condition. Hospitals and other applicable inpatient facilities generally do not receive separate payment for drugs and biologics administered to patients during an inpatient hospital stay. As a result, hospitals and other inpatient facilities may not have a financial incentive to utilize our products for inpatients where lower cost alternative therapies are available.
Finally, Medicare beneficiaries can receive their Part A, B, and D benefits through a Medicare Advantage organization plan that is administered by a private insurance company pursuant to Medicare Part C. Similar to private health insurance plans, Medicare Advantage organization plans negotiate discounts with 23
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

health care providers and implement utilization controls, including, most notably, step therapy for Part B drugs, which became effective January 1, 2019. This means that Medicare Advantage plans can now require beneficiaries to use a more cost-effective drug therapy first and only progress to a more costly therapy if and when determined necessary after medical review. This method of utilization management can lower the demand for therapies subject to step therapy, including expensive therapies. 
The Budget Control Act of 2011, as amended, requires Medicare payments for all items and services, including drugs and biologics, to be reduced by up to 2.0% under sequestration (i.e., automatic spending reductions, calculated each year by the Office of Management and Budget). Subsequent legislation extended the 2.0% reduction, on average, to 2030 (except for the period from May 1, 2020 through March 31, 2021 during which Congress temporarily suspended the sequester due to the COVID-19 pandemic). This 2.0% reduction in Medicare payments affects all Parts of the Medicare program and could impact sales of our products. Additional sequestration orders under the statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 could also be triggered, potentially resulting in up to a 4.0% reduction in Medicare payments. These potential future reductions to Medicare Part B reimbursement to physicians could potentially negatively impact our business as well, including our C5 inhibitors which are administered in the inpatient setting. 
Pursuant to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Statute (42 U.S.C. § 1396r-8(a)(1)), we are required to participate in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program in order for federal payment to be available for our products under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. Medicaid is a government health insurance program for eligible low-income adults, children, families, pregnant women, and people with certain disabilities. It is jointly funded by the federal and state governments, and it is administered by individual states within parameters established by the federal government. As a result, coverage and reimbursement requirements for drugs and biologics vary by state. For example, drugs and biologics may be covered under the medical or pharmacy benefit, and state Medicaid programs may impose different utilization management controls, such as prior authorization, step therapy, or quantity limits on drugs and biologics, subject to federal limitations for such controls. But all states must generally provide coverage and reimbursement for a manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs, as that term is defined by applicable law, if a manufacturer participates in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. 
Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to, among other things, pay a rebate to each state Medicaid program for quantities of our products utilized on an outpatient basis (with some exceptions) that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program. Medicaid Drug Rebate Program rebates are calculated using a statutory formula, state-reported utilization data, and pricing data that are calculated and reported by us on a monthly and quarterly basis to CMS. These data include the average manufacturer price and, in the case of single source and innovator multiple source products, the best price for each drug. As further described below under “U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. and International Healthcare Laws,” the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the PPACA), made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program that could negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, the Right Rebate Act became effective April 2019, which primarily imposes new penalties on drug manufacturers that knowingly misclassify a covered outpatient drug under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.
In addition to participating in the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, federal law requires manufacturers like us to participate in the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing program in order for federal funds to be available for the manufacturer’s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B. The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. These 340B covered entities only include health care organizations that have certain federal designations or receive funding from specific federal programs, including Federally Qualified Health Centers, Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program grantees, and certain types of hospitals and specialized clinics, as well as certain hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities: certain children’s hospitals, certain free-standing cancer hospitals, critical access hospitals, certain rural referral centers and certain sole community hospitals, each as defined by PPACA. However, “orphan drugs” i.e., those designated under section 526 of the FDCA, such as certain of our products that have received market authorization (as identified above), are exempted from the ceiling price requirements for these eligible entities added by PPACA (except for certain children’s hospitals). The 340B ceiling price is calculated using a statutory formula, which is based on the average manufacturer price and rebate amount for the covered outpatient drug as calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, and in general, products subject to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are also subject to the 340B ceiling price 24
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

calculation and discount requirement. Any changes to the definition of Medicaid average manufacturer price and the Medicaid rebate amount also could affect our 340B ceiling price calculation for our products and could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, after multiple delays, the final rule implementing civil monetary penalties against manufacturers for instances of overcharging 340B covered entities became effective on January 1, 2019. Accordingly, we could be subject to such penalties if the government finds that we knowingly and intentionally overcharged a 340B covered entity.
Federal law requires that for a company to be eligible to have its products paid for with federal funds under the Medicaid and Medicare Part B programs as well as to be purchased by certain federal agencies and grantees, it also must participate in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Federal Supply Schedule (FSS) pricing program. To participate, we are required to enter into an FSS contract and other agreements with the VA for our products, which qualify as “covered drugs.” Under these agreements, we must make our products available to the “Big Four” federal agencies the VA, the Department of Defense (DoD), the Public Health Service (including the Indian Health Service), and the Coast Guard at pricing that is capped pursuant to a statutory federal ceiling price, or FCP, formula set forth in Section 603 of the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992 (VHCA). The FCP is based on a weighted average non-federal average manufacturer price (Non-FAMP), which manufacturers are required to report on a quarterly and annual basis to the VA. Pursuant to the VHCA, knowing provision of false information in connection with a Non-FAMP filing can subject a manufacturer to a penalty for each item of false information and could result in other potential liability as well, including liability under the False Claims Act (which is discussed in more detail below).
FSS contracts are federal procurement contracts that include standard government terms and conditions, separate pricing for each product, and extensive disclosure and certification requirements. All items on FSS contracts are subject to a standard FSS contract clause that requires FSS contract price reductions under certain circumstances where pricing is reduced to an agreed “tracking customer.” Further, in addition to the “Big Four” agencies, all other federal agencies and some non-federal entities are authorized to purchase off FSS contracts. FSS contractors are permitted to charge FSS purchasers other than the Big Four agencies “negotiated pricing” for covered drugs that is not capped by the FCP; instead, such pricing is negotiated based on a mandatory disclosure of the contractor’s commercial “most favored customer” pricing. We offer dual pricing on our FSS contract.In addition, pursuant to regulations issued by the DoD to implement Section 703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, each of our covered drugs is listed on an agreement with the Defense Health Agency (DHA) under which we have agreed to honor the “Big Four” pricing for our products when they are dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE retail network pharmacies. More specifically, we have agreed to provide rebates (or refunds) on such utilization. Companies are required to enter into a DHA Agreement for “covered drug” products in order for the covered drug to be eligible for DoD formulary inclusion and available to TRICARE beneficiaries without preauthorization. The formula for determining the rebate is established in the regulations and our DHA agreement and is based on the difference between the annual Non-FAMP and the FCP (as described above, these price points are required to be calculated by us under the VHCA).
As noted in the foregoing, pricing and rebate calculations vary among products and programs. The calculations can be very complex and are often subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies and the courts. We cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by CMS or other governmental agencies to be incomplete or incorrect. Governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. For example, if we become aware that certain Medicaid Drug Rebate Program price reporting for a prior quarter was incorrect, or has changed as a result of recalculation of the pricing data, we are obligated to resubmit the corrected data for a period not to exceed twelve quarters from the quarter in which the data originally were due, and CMS may consider restatements for earlier periods as well depending on the circumstance. Such restatements and recalculations increase our costs for complying with the laws and regulations governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Any corrections to our Medicaid rebate calculations could result in an increase or decrease in our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Price recalculations also may affect the ceiling price at which we are required to offer our products to certain covered entities under the 340B drug pricing program.
Any failure to comply with these price reporting and rebate payment obligations could negatively impact our financial results. Civil monetary penalties can be applied if we are found to have knowingly submitted any false price information to the government, if we are found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of our average sales price, or if we fail to submit the required price data on a timely basis. Such conduct also could be grounds for CMS to terminate our Medicaid drug 25
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

rebate agreement, in which case federal payments may not be available under Medicaid or Medicare Part B for our covered outpatient drugs, as well as provide a basis for other potential liability under other federal laws such as the False Claims Act.
Payers also are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as ASP, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. The existing data for reimbursement based on these metrics is relatively limited, although certain states have begun to survey acquisition cost data for the purpose of setting Medicaid reimbursement rates. CMS surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information in the form of National Average Drug Acquisition Cost files to provide state Medicaid agencies with a basis of comparison for their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates. It may be difficult to project the impact of these evolving reimbursement mechanics on the willingness of payers to cover our products.
Further, in the U.S., there is increased focus on drug pricing and pricing-related matters: the President, HHS officials (including CMS and the FDA), and lawmakers and regulators (at both the federal and state level) have expressed a clear interest in efforts to reduce prices for drugs and biologics, further increase transparency around prices and price increases, lower out-of-pocket costs for consumers, and decrease spending on drugs by government programs. Members of Congress, for example, have launched investigations into the pricing practices of the prescription drug industry, have held hearings to investigate increases in drug prices, and continue to consider and pass legislation to address high drug prices and increase drug price transparency. This includes a coronavirus relief and government appropriations bill passed in December 2020 containing several important new drug price reporting and transparency measures that could result in additional pricing transparency, including requirements for certain Medicare plans to implement tools to display Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit information in real time and for group and health insurance issuers to report information on certain pharmacy benefit and drug costs to the Secretaries of HHS, Labor, and the Treasury. 
In addition, on November 20, 2020, CMS issued an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) to implement a Most Favored Nation (MFN) Model for certain included drugs and biological products payable under Medicare Part B. Throughout its seven-year performance period, the MFN Model would gradually reduce Medicare Part B reimbursement for included products to their respective MFN price, which generally reflects the lowest price for a pharmaceutical product sold in certain economically-comparable member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. The IFC identified our product, SOLIRIS (eculizumab injection), as one of 50 drugs and biological products included in the first performance year of the MFN Model. The MFN Model was scheduled to commence on January 1, 2021; however, litigation challenging the MFN Model has delayed its implementation, and the outcome of the litigation is unclear. It is also unclear whether the change in the U.S. presidential Administration in January 2021 will result in changes to the MFN model or other federal drug pricing measures. As discussed in “Government Regulation – U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. and International Healthcare Laws” included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the incoming Biden Administration issued a memorandum “freezing” certain regulations and guidance documents issued by the Trump Administration that had not become effective as of President Biden’s inauguration on January 20, 2021. Changes in the U.S. presidential Administration and the Congress following the 2020 elections could also potentially result in further legislative and regulatory changes, continued Congressional and Executive Branch scrutiny, and negative attention with respect to drug pricing and related matters.
State governments have also been pursuing legislative and regulatory changes to address drug prices. For example, the state of California passed legislation that requires drug manufacturers to notify the state at least 60 days of instituting price increases and Maryland passed legislation to create a drug pricing review commission that will evaluate drug cost and recommend setting an upper limit or cap for therapies deemed too expensive. We cannot predict what other reforms may ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation or regulation and, accordingly, face uncertainties that may result from additional reforms and their impact on our operations.
In addition, in some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. Moreover, the requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. For example, in the EU, the sole legal instrument at the EU level governing the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products is Council Directive 89/105/EEC (the Price Transparency Directive). The aim of the Price Transparency Directive is to ensure that pricing and reimbursement mechanisms established in EU Member States are transparent and objective, do not hinder the free movement and trade of medicinal products in the EU and do not hinder, prevent or distort competition on the market. The Price Transparency Directive does not, however, provide any guidance concerning the specific criteria on the basis of which pricing and reimbursement decisions are to 26
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

be made in individual EU Member States. Neither does it have any direct consequence for pricing or levels of reimbursement in individual EU Member States. Pricing of prescription only medicinal products is a national prerogative. Therefore the relevant national authorities of the individual EU Member States are free to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices and/or reimbursement of medicinal products for human use. Some individual EU Member States adopt policies according to which a specific price or level of reimbursement is approved for the medicinal product. Other EU Member States adopt a system of reference pricing, basing the price or reimbursement level in their territory either, on the pricing and reimbursement levels in other countries, or on the pricing and reimbursement levels of medicinal products intended for the same therapeutic indication. Furthermore, some EU Member States impose direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market.
Health Technology Assessment (HTA) of medicinal products is becoming an increasingly common part of the pricing and reimbursement procedures in some EU Member States examples of which include France, Italy, Germany, Netherlands, Poland, Spain and Sweden. The HTA process in the EU Member States is governed by the national laws of these countries. HTA is the procedure according to which the assessment of the public health impact, therapeutic impact and the economic and societal impact of the use of a given medicinal product in the national healthcare systems of the individual country is conducted. HTA generally focuses on the clinical efficacy and effectiveness, safety, cost, and cost-effectiveness of individual medicinal products as well as their potential implications for the national healthcare system. Those elements of medicinal products are compared with other treatment options available on the market. The structure, function, remit, and approaches of these HTA bodies vary according to the different health systems and political structures they operate in. 
The outcome of HTA may influence the pricing and reimbursement status for specific medicinal products within individual EU Member States. The extent to which pricing and reimbursement decisions are influenced by the HTA of a specific medicinal product vary between the EU Member States.
In 2011, Directive 2011/24/EU was adopted at the EU level. This Directive concerns the application of patients’ rights in cross-border healthcare. The Directive is intended to establish rules for facilitating access to safe and high-quality cross-border healthcare in the EU. Pursuant to Directive 2011/24/EU, a voluntary network of national authorities or bodies responsible for HTA in the individual EU Member States was established. The purpose of the network is to facilitate and support the exchange of scientific information concerning HTAs. This could lead to harmonization of the criteria taken into account in the conduct of HTA between EU Member States in pricing and reimbursement decisions and negatively impact price in at least some EU Member States.
On a continuous basis, we engage with appropriate authorities in individual countries on the operational, reimbursement, price approval and funding processes that are separately required in each country.
Fraud and Abuse 
Pharmaceutical companies participating in federal healthcare programs like Medicare or Medicaid are subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including without limitation, anti-kickback and false claims laws. Violations of U.S. federal and state fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, including fines, damages, civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Applicable U.S. statutes, include, but are not limited to, the following:
•The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving, or paying any remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward purchasing, ordering or arranging for or recommending the purchase or order of any item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. Liability may be established without a person or entity having actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it. This statute has been interpreted to apply broadly to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and individuals such as prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. In addition, PPACA amended the Social Security Act to provide that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act (which is discussed below). A conviction for violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute results in criminal fines and requires mandatory exclusion from participation in federal health care programs. Although there are a number of statutory 27
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

exceptions and regulatory safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute that protect certain common, industry practices from prosecution, the exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and arrangements may be subject to scrutiny or penalty if they do not fully satisfy all elements of an available exception or safe harbor. On November 20, 2020, OIG issued two final regulations implementing significant modifications to regulatory safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The first rule finalized new safe harbors and modified existing safe harbors to promote certain value-based and coordinated care arrangements and reduce regulatory burden, which are scheduled to become effective January 19, 2021. However, the Government Accountability Office has determined that this effective date was premature in light of certain Congressional Review Act restrictions. This rule is likely subject to the regulatory “freeze” memorandum issued by the Biden Administration, as discussed in “Government Regulation – U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. and International Healthcare Laws” included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. ” included in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The second rule (the Rebate Rule) created new safe harbor protection, which was scheduled to become effective January 29, 2021, for certain (i) point-of-sale discounts from pharmaceutical manufacturers to Medicare Part D plans, Medicaid managed care organizations, and their contracted pharmacy benefit managers (PBMs), and (ii) fees for certain services that PBMs provide to pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Government Accountability Office found this effective date to be premature in light of Congressional Review Act requirements, and OIG subsequently delayed the effective date of these provisions to March 22, 2021, in order to further review the rule in accordance with the regulatory “freeze” memorandum issued by the Biden Administration. In addition, the Rebate Rule revised the discount safe harbor to exclude from protection price reductions (e.g., rebates) for pharmaceutical products from manufacturers to Part D plans when made directly or indirectly through a PBM. This change was originally scheduled to become effective January 1, 2022, but the Rebate Rule has been subject to litigation, and the effective date for this change was subsequently delayed to January 1, 2023 in accordance with an order from the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The Rebate Rule is intended to create incentives for manufacturers, covered plans, and PBMs to shift from retrospective rebates to point-of-sale discounts, potentially lowering list prices of, and reducing consumers’ out-of-pocket costs for, prescription drugs. Implementation of these rules is uncertain and could trigger further regulatory action by coordinating agencies within HHS. We cannot predict the full impact of these rules and any subsequent related regulatory actions on our operations.
•The federal civil False Claims Act (FCA) imposes civil penalties against individuals or entities for, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to the government that are false or fraudulent, or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to such a false or fraudulent claim, or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding, decreasing, or concealing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. This statute also permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery. FCA liability is potentially significant in the healthcare industry because the statute provides for treble damages and mandatory penalties of between eleven thousand six hundred sixty five dollars and twenty three thousand three hundred thirty one dollars per false claim or statement for penalties assessed after June 19, 2020, with respect to violations occurring after November 2, 2015 (and penalties of between five thousand five hundred and eleven thousand dollars per false claim with respect to violations occurring before that date). Government enforcement agencies and private whistleblowers have investigated pharmaceutical companies for or asserted liability under the FCA for a variety of alleged inappropriate promotional and marketing activities, including those involving the provision of free product or other items of value to customers, patient support programs, certain financial arrangements with healthcare providers, misstated government drug pricing information, and purported “off-label” promotion of products, among other things.
•Under the federal criminal statute on false statements relating to health care matters, it is a crime to knowingly and willfully falsify, conceal, or cover up a material fact, make any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent 28
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

statements or representations, or make or use any materially false writing or document knowing the same to contain any materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or entry in connection with the delivery of or payment for federally funded healthcare benefits, items, or services. 
•Under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) criminal federal health care fraud statute, it is a crime to knowingly and willfully execute, or attempt to execute, a scheme or artifice to defraud any health care benefit program or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any health care benefit program, in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items, or services.
•The federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law authorizes the imposition of substantial civil monetary penalties against an entity, such as a pharmaceutical manufacturer, that engages in activities including, among others (1) knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim for services not provided as claimed or that is otherwise false or fraudulent in any way; (2) arranging for or contracting with an individual or entity that is excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs to provide items or services reimbursable by a federal healthcare program; (3) violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute; or (4) failing to report and return a known overpayment.
•The majority of states also have statutes similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and FCA that apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state health care programs, or, in several states, regardless of the payer. 
•The federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires “applicable manufacturers” of products, including biologics, for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the State Children’s Health Insurance Program, among other regulated parties, to track and report annually to the federal government (for disclosure to the public) certain payments and other transfers of value they make to ”covered recipients.” The term covered recipients includes physicians, teaching hospitals, and, for reports submitted on or after January 1, 2022, physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives. Accordingly, applicable manufacturers are required to track certain payments and other transfers of value made to these additional covered recipients during calendar year 2021. In addition, several U.S. states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports, and/or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Other state laws prohibit certain marketing-related activities including the provision of gifts, meals or other items to certain healthcare providers, and restrict the ability of manufacturers to offer co-pay support to patients for certain prescription drugs. Some states and cities require identification or licensing of state representatives. In addition, several recently passed state laws to require disclosures related to state agencies and/or commercial purchasers with respect to certain price increases that exceed a certain level as identified in the relevant statutes. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements that government officials have not yet clarified. Given the lack of clarity in the laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations.
Sanctions under federal and state fraud and abuse laws may include significant criminal, civil, and administrative penalties, including damages, fines, imprisonment, and exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs. Any of the foregoing would be expected to have a negative impact on our business which may be material.
Federal and state authorities are continuing to devote significant attention and resources to enforcement of fraud and abuse laws within the pharmaceutical industry, and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the law and bringing suits on behalf of the government under the FCA. For example, federal enforcement agencies recently have investigated certain pharmaceutical companies’ speaker programs, product and patient assistance programs, including manufacturer reimbursement support services, relationships with specialty pharmacies, and grants to independent charitable foundations. There was, for example, a recent enforcement action in August 2020 against a pharmaceutical company for violations of the FCA and Anti-Kickback Statute that resulted in payments of hundreds of millions of dollars to the government and 29
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

imposition of an extensive corporate integrity agreement. If we, our vendors, or donation recipients are deemed to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or evolving government guidance in the operation of these programs, we could be subject to damages, fines, penalties or other criminal, civil or administrative sanctions or enforcement actions. We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies and procedures will be sufficient to protect against acts of our employees, business partners or vendors that may violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. In December 2016, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts relating generally to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients, Alexion’s provision of free drug to Medicare patients and Alexion’s related compliance policies and training materials. In April 2019, we entered into a civil settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and OIG to resolve this matter. As part of the settlement agreement, Alexion paid $13.1 to the DOJ and OIG. Please see the discussion below in the “Risk Factors” section and Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional details regarding this investigation. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements continue to comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations could be costly.
Outside the U.S., other countries have implemented similar laws and regulations relating to fraud and abuse in the sale of pharmaceutical products and requirements for disclosure of financial interactions with healthcare providers and additional countries may consider or implement such laws. See Other Regulations below for additional information on such regulations outside the U.S.
U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. and International Healthcare Laws 
In the U.S., there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of legislative and regulatory changes to healthcare systems. In the U.S., the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of healthcare reform efforts and has been significantly affected by the PPACA, which was adopted in March 2010. This law substantially changed the way healthcare is financed in the U.S. by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the pharmaceutical industry. PPACA contains a number of provisions that have impacted and are expected to impact our business and operations. Changes that may affect our business include those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, rules regarding prescription drug benefits under the health insurance exchanges, expansion of the 340B program, expansion of state Medicaid programs, and fraud and abuse and enforcement. 
PPACA contains several provisions that have or could potentially have an impact on our business. PPACA made significant changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program. Effective March 23, 2010, rebate liability expanded from fee-for-service Medicaid utilization to include the utilization of Medicaid managed care organizations as well. With regard to the amount of the rebates owed, PPACA increased the minimum Medicaid rebate percentage from 15.1% to 23.1% of the average manufacturer price for most innovator products; changed the calculation of the rebate for certain innovator products that qualify as line extensions of existing drugs; and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100.0% of the average manufacturer price. In early 2016, CMS issued a final regulation to implement the changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program under PPACA, which became effective on April 1, 2016. In December 2020, CMS issued another final regulation implementing further changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including updates to align existing regulations with certain statutory amendments enacted subsequent to PPACA. Among other provisions, the rule affects price reporting related to manufacturer-sponsored patient assistance programs subject to PBM accumulator programs, certain value-based purchasing arrangements, line extensions, and authorized generics. As with other Trump Administration regulations not made effective as of President-elect Biden’s inauguration on January 20, 2021, certain aspects of this rule may potentially be subject to the regulatory “freeze” memorandum expected to be issued by the incoming Biden Administration. Ultimately, issuance of these regulations, as well as other regulations and coverage expansion by various governmental agencies relating to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, has increased and will continue to increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, has been and will continue to be time-consuming to implement, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly if CMS challenges the approach we take in our implementation of certain Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requirements
Additional provisions of PPACA may negatively affect manufacturers’ revenues. For example, PPACA required pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded prescription drugs to pay a branded prescription drug fee to the federal government. Each individual pharmaceutical manufacturer pays a prorated share of the aggregate branded prescription drug fee paid by all covered entities ($2,800 in 2019 and each ensuing year), based on, among other things, its applicable branded prescription drug sales to certain federal programs identified in the law. Sales of “orphan drugs” are excluded from this fee. “Orphan 30
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

drugs” are specifically defined for purposes of the fee. For each indication approved by the FDA for the drug, such indication must have been designated as orphan by the FDA under section 526 of the FDCA, an orphan drug tax credit under section 45C of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Internal Revenue Code) must have been claimed with respect to such indication, and such tax credit must not have been disallowed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). Finally, the FDA must not have approved the drug for any indication other than an orphan indication for which a section 45C orphan drug tax credit was claimed (and not disallowed). Due to successful FDA approval of indications other than an orphan indication and based on sales projections, we anticipate that one of our products, ULTOMIRIS, may be subject to the branded prescription drug fee beginning in 2022.
In addition, as part of PPACA’s provisions closing the coverage gap in the Medicare Part D prescription drug program (commonly known as the “donut hole”), manufacturers of branded prescription drugs and biologics are required to provide a 50.0% discount on branded prescription drugs and biologics dispensed to beneficiaries within this donut hole. This discount was recently increased to 70.0%, beginning January 1, 2019, by the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018.
As noted above, PPACA also expanded the Public Health Service’s 340B drug pricing discount program by including additional types of covered entities. The 340B pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. PPACA expanded the 340B program to include additional types of covered entities as described above. PPACA exempts “orphan drugs” designated under section 526 of the FDCA, including certain of our products, from the ceiling pricing requirements for these eligible covered entities added by PPACA (except for certain children’s hospitals).
The framework of the PPACA continues to evolve as a result of executive, legislative, regulatory, and administrative developments that have challenged the law during the Trump Administration. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017 eliminated the shared responsibility payment for individuals who fail to maintain minimum essential coverage under section 5000A of the Internal Revenue Code, commonly referred to as the “individual mandate,” which became effective in 2019. In December 2018, a federal district court in Texas ruled the individual mandate was unconstitutional and could not be severed from the PPACA. As a result, the court ruled the remaining provisions of the PPACA were also invalid, though the court declined to issue a preliminary injunction with respect to the PPACA. In December 2019, the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed that the individual mandate was unconstitutional, but remanded the case back to the district court for further analysis of whether the mandate could be severed from PPACA. The U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari on March 2, 2020, and conducted oral argument in November 2020. The case is expected to be decided in 2021. Further legislative changes to and regulatory changes under PPACA remain possible. We expect to continue to see legislative, regulatory, and litigation changes involving the PPACA that may impact the PPACA and, potentially, coverage and reimbursement of our products.
In addition, as described in “Government Regulation – Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement” and “Government Regulation – Fraud and Abuse” included in Part I, Item 1, the Trump Administration recently promulgated regulations that, if implemented, could potentially have a significant impact on the pharmaceutical and broader healthcare industries. However, recent changes in the U.S. presidential Administration following the 2020 elections could affect certain Trump Administration regulatory actions. This includes a memorandum issued by the Biden Administration “freezing” certain regulations and guidance documents issued by the Trump Administration that had not become effective as of President Biden’s inauguration on January 20, 2021. This memorandum, like similar memoranda issued by prior incoming Administrations, directs federal agencies to take steps to halt, delay, or conduct further review of certain regulatory actions taken by the Trump Administration, including by postponing the effective dates for rules that had not taken effect by January 20, 2021 for the purpose of reviewing any questions of fact, law, and policy raised by such rules. The Biden Administration has also undertaken other actions—and will likely continue to do so—signaling a change in policy from the prior Administration. Such activities include Executive Order 13992 revoking several Trump Administration orders that had certain deregulatory effects, and a letter to the United Nations retracting the United States’ intent to withdraw from the World Health Organization. Other actions by the Biden Administration and/or legislation passed by the new Congress could further impact the pharmaceutical and broader healthcare industries in ways that are difficult to predict but that could also materially impact our operations. We cannot predict what other healthcare reforms will ultimately be implemented at the federal or state level or the effect of any future legislation, executive action or regulation and, accordingly, face uncertainties that might result from additional reforms.31
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Privacy, Data Protection and Information Security
Numerous international, federal, and state laws, including state privacy laws (such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA), state and city security breach notification and information security laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information. In addition, most healthcare providers who prescribe and dispense our products and research institutions with whom we collaborate for our sponsored clinical trials are subject to privacy and security requirements under HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and its implementing regulations. Although we are not directly subject to HIPAA other than with respect to providing certain employee benefits, we could be potentially subject to penalties and sanctions, including criminal penalties if we, our affiliates, or our agents knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information (protected health information) maintained by a HIPAA covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA. In addition, in December 2018, HHS issued cybersecurity guidance for all healthcare organizations that addresses organizations’ enterprise-level information security generally, including protected health information. Failure to comply with current and future laws and regulations could result in governmental enforcement actions (including the imposition of significant penalties), criminal and civil liability for our Company and our officers and directors, and/or adverse publicity that negatively affects our business. Further, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and implementing laws in the EU member states govern the collection and processing of EU residents’ personal data and, among other requirements, imposes certain consent and data access rights. Such laws may impact our ability to conduct clinical trials that involve EU personal data and engage in other activities that require the processing of EU personal data. The GDPR introduced comprehensive data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. EU regulators also have issued guidance regarding the handling and protection of EU personal data with respect to the transfer of personal data from the EU to the U.S. and other issues relevant to our operations. The GDPR and associated guidance from EU regulators increased our responsibility and liability in relation to EU personal data that we process, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with evolving EU data protection requirements, in particular relating to international transfers of personal data.
Outside of the U.S. and the EU, there are numerous other jurisdictions that have their own privacy and information security laws, and new laws and regulations are being considered and/or enacted globally, which may affect our ability to collect, process, and store their residents’ personal data. For example, the Brazilian General Data Protection Law (LGPD), which went into effect in 2020, may impact our collection and use of personal information related to this jurisdiction.
Moreover, we rely on our internal and third-party provided information technology systems and applications to support our operations and to maintain and process company information including personal information, confidential business information and proprietary information. If these information technology systems are subject to cybersecurity attacks, or are otherwise compromised, due to cyberattacks, human error or malfeasance, system errors or otherwise, it may adversely impact our business, disrupt our operations, or lead to the loss, theft, destruction, corruption or compromise of company information and personal information. Such information technology or security events could also lead to legal liability, regulatory investigations or actions, loss of business, negative media coverage, and reputational damage. While we maintain an information security program with technical controls to mitigate these risks and training to educate and prepare our employees, the healthcare sector continues to see a high frequency of cyberattacks and threat actors that continue to become more sophisticated and better resourced, and our systems and the information maintained within those systems remain potentially vulnerable to data security incidents. Moreover, losses from such events may not be completely covered by insurance coverage (or may not be covered at all by any of our insurance policies depending on the circumstances). Finally, as cyber threats continue to evolve and privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations continue to develop, we may need to invest additional resources to implement new compliance measures, strengthen our information security posture, or respond to cyber threats and incidents.
Other Regulations
We are also subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act (U.K. Bribery Act), and other anti-corruption laws and regulations pertaining to our financial relationships and interactions with foreign government officials. The FCPA prohibits U.S. companies and their employees, officers, and representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate to obtain or retain business or to otherwise seek favorable treatment. In many countries in which we operate or sell our products, the healthcare professionals with whom we interact may be deemed 32
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

to be foreign government officials for purposes of the FCPA. The U.K. Bribery Act, which applies to any company incorporated or doing business in the UK, prohibits giving, offering, or promising bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official or private person, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent bribery amongst employees and other agents. Penalties under the U.K. Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances. Liability in relation to breaches of the U.K. Bribery Act is strict. This means that it is not necessary to demonstrate elements of a corrupt state of mind. However, a defense of having in place adequate procedures designed to prevent bribery is available.
Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity by U.S. regulators, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the DOJ and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators, and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. In May 2015, we received a subpoena in connection with an investigation by the Enforcement Division of the Securities Exchange Commission requesting information related to our grant-making activities and compliance with the FCPA in various countries. In addition, in October 2015, Alexion received a request from the DOJ for the voluntary production of documents and other information pertaining to Alexion’s compliance with the FCPA. The investigations focused on operations in various countries, including Brazil, Colombia, Japan, Russia and Turkey, and Alexion's compliance with the FCPA and other applicable laws. In May 2020, DOJ informed us that it has closed its inquiry into these matters. On July 2, 2020, we reached a civil settlement with the SEC fully resolving the SEC’s investigation into possible violations of the FCPA. Alexion neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing in connection with the settlement and paid $21.5 to the SEC, consisting of amounts attributable to disgorgement, civil penalties, and pre-judgment interest. For information concerning this investigation see Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Risk Factors, including "Our business and operations may be materially adversely affected by government investigations." 
The EU also imposes strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products in the EU, where a large portion of our non-U.S. business is conducted, and other territories. Increasing regulatory scrutiny of the promotional activities of pharmaceutical companies also has been observed in a number of EU Member States. Laws in the EU, including in the individual EU Member States, require promotional materials and advertising for drug products to comply with the product’s Summary of Product Characteristics (SmPC), which is approved by the competent authorities. Promotion of a medicinal product which does not comply with the SmPC is considered to constitute off-label promotion. The off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the EU and in other territories. The promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also considered to constitute off-label promotion and is prohibited in the EU. Laws in the EU, including in the individual EU Member States, also prohibit the direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription-only medicinal products. Violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the EU and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment.
Under the existing EU legislation and the new Clinical Trial Regulation there is an obligation to publish clinical trial results within a certain timeframe. A breach of this obligation would constitute non-compliance with EU legislation and may be met with penalties set by each Member State, including civil and criminal liability.
Japan and other countries in which we operate also have strict regulations and requirements regarding the promotion of pharmaceutical products. For example, in October 2018, the Japanese MHLW conducted an administrative inspection of Alexion’s Japanese operations. The MHLW inquiry primarily focused on our communication efforts regarding the proper use of SOLIRIS in Japan for aHUS, among other matters. We have cooperated with the inquiries and the investigation, and in March 2019, the MHLW indicated that it has completed its investigation.
Interactions between pharmaceutical companies and physicians are also governed by strict laws, regulations, industry self-regulation codes of conduct and physicians’ codes of professional conduct in the individual EU Member States. The provision of any inducements to physicians to prescribe, recommend, endorse, order, purchase, supply, use or administer a medicinal product is prohibited. A number of EU Member States have introduced additional rules requiring pharmaceutical companies to publicly disclose their interactions with physicians and to obtain approval from employers, professional organizations and/or competent authorities before entering into agreements with physicians. These rules have been supplemented by provisions of related industry codes, including the EFPIA Disclosure Code on Disclosure of Transfers of Value from Pharmaceutical Companies to Healthcare Professionals and Healthcare Organizations and related codes developed at national level in individual EU Member States. Additional countries may consider 33
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

or implement similar laws and regulations. Violations of these rules could lead to reputational risk, public reprimands, and/or the imposition of fines or imprisonment.
Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import and export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. We cannot predict the impact of government regulation, which may result from future legislation or administrative action, on our business.
Competition 
ULTOMIRIS and SOLIRIS are currently the only approved therapies for the treatment of PNH and aHUS (although several companies are currently evaluating other complement inhibitors for the treatment of PNH and aHUS in clinical trials). SOLIRIS is currently the only approved complement inhibitor therapy for the treatment of AChR antibody-positive gMG (although several companies are currently evaluating complement inhibitors, such as C3 and C5 inhibitors, and other mechanisms of action, including Factor B and Factor D inhibitors, for the treatment of PNH, aHUS and gMG in clinical trials).
SOLIRIS is also approved as a therapy for patients with NMOSD who are AQP4 auto antibody-positive. During 2020, two therapies were approved by the FDA (and certain other regulatory authorities) as treatments for NMOSD. The first, Uplizna (inebilizumab-cdon), a Viela Bio product, is also an intravenous infusion treatment for NMOSD for adult patients who are AQP4 auto antibody-positive. UPLIZNA is a CD19-directed cytolytic antibody and was approved by the FDA in June 2020. The second, Enspryng (satralizumab-mwge), a Roche group product, is a subcutaneously delivered treatment for NMOSD for adults who are AQP4 auto antibody-positive. Enspryng is designed to target and inhibit interleukin-6 (IL-6) receptor activity and was approved by the FDA in August 2020. Both of these NMOSD indicated-therapies, which rely on mechanisms of action that are different from C5 inhibitors, are new entrants to the market and, therefore, it is difficult at this time to determine the impact of these products on the trends in market demand and competitive conditions in the NMOSD market In addition, while the label for rituximab, a monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody that is delivered by intravenous infusions, does not carry indications for NMOSD, we are aware that rituximab is commonly prescribed by physicians for the treatment of NMOSD in the U.S. and outside the U.S. Rituximab is currently co-marketed by Biogen and Genentech in the U.S., by Hoffmann-La Roche in Canada, the European Union (EU) and Chugai Pharmaceuticals Zenyaku Kogyo in Japan. Clinical trials have not been conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of SOLIRIS and rituximab, Uplizna or Enspryng in NMOSD. 
We are also evaluating ULTOMIRIS and SOLIRIS in clinical studies for the treatment of other indications, and we believe there are competitors for the patient segments we target with respect to these products. STRENSIQ is currently the only product approved for the treatment of HPP, KANUMA is the only product approved for the treatment of LAL-D and ANDEXXA is the only product approved as a reversal agent for patients treated with rivaroxaban or apixaban, when reversal of anticoagulation is needed due to life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Many pharmaceutical and biotech companies have publicly announced intention to establish or develop rare disease programs that may be competitive with ours, including competing products to our C5 inhibitors, STRENSIQ, KANUMA and ANDEXXA. We also experience competition in drug development from universities and other research institutions, and pharmaceutical companies compete with us to attract universities and academic research institutions as drug development partners, including for licensing their proprietary technology.
Some of these entities may have:
•greater financial and other resources;
•larger research and development staffs;
•lower labor costs; and/or
•more extensive marketing and manufacturing organizations.
Many of these companies and organizations have significant experience and resources in preclinical testing, human clinical trials, product process development and manufacturing, marketing, sales and distribution and other regulatory approval and commercial procedures. They may also have a greater number of significant patents and greater legal resources to seek remedies for cases of alleged infringement of their patents by us to block, delay or compromise our own drug development process.
We compete with large pharmaceutical companies that produce and market synthetic compounds and biologics and with specialized biotechnology firms in the U.S., Europe and in other countries and regions, as well as a growing number of large pharmaceutical companies that are developing biotechnology products. A number of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies are developing new products for the treatment of the same diseases being targeted by us. Other companies have initiated 34
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

clinical studies for the treatment of PNH, aHUS, gMG and NMOSD (in additional to those products already approved by regulatory authorities), and we are aware of companies that have initiated or are planning to initiate studies for diseases we are also targeting (in some cases, these companies have clinical trial programs that are more advanced than our clinical trial programs for these diseases). In addition, in 2019 a SOLIRIS biosimilar was introduced in Russia (which was sold by Generium) and we experienced a significant decrease in sales of SOLIRIS following the introduction of Generium’s biosimilar. We are aware that other companies are conducting clinical trials for biosimilars of SOLIRIS and we expect to compete with biosimilars in the future.
Several biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies have programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies or have publicly announced their intentions to develop drugs which target the inflammatory effects of complement in the immune system or have had programs to develop complement inhibitor therapies. 
Brexit
In June 2016, the U.K. electorate voted in a referendum to voluntarily depart from the E.U., known as Brexit. Following the formation of a majority Conservative government in December 2019, the U.K. approved the Withdrawal Agreement and left the European Union (Brexit) on January 31, 2020. The U.K. and the E.U., however, agreed to keep many things the same until December 31, 2020, to allow enough time to agree to the terms of a new trade deal, which was finalized on December 24, 2020.
The potential impact on our results of operations and liquidity resulting from Brexit still remains unclear. The actual effects of Brexit will depend upon many factors and significant uncertainty remains with respect to the implementation of the final terms of the new trade agreement. The final terms of the implementation of the trade pact may impact certain of our commercial and general business operations in the U.K. and the E.U., including the approval and supply of our products. In addition, Brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations, including with respect to pharmaceuticals and biologics (as well as tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and employment laws), as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate.
Compliance with any resulting regulatory mandates may prove challenging and the macroeconomic impact on our sales and consolidated results of operations from these developments remains unknown. We do not, however, expect Brexit to have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations as the U.K. does not account for a material component of our annual revenues.
We cannot predict the direction Brexit-related developments will take nor the impact of those developments on our European operations and the economies of the markets where we operate. 
Human Capital
Alexion’s employees are guided by our mission to transform the lives of people affected by rare diseases and devastating conditions by continuously innovating and creating meaningful value in all that we do. Our employees are further guided by our code of conduct and our culture values to serve patients, act with integrity, empower people, and innovate for solutions.
Employees:
As of December 31, 2020, we had 3,837 full-time, world-wide employees, of which 1,687 were engaged in research, product development, manufacturing and clinical development, 1,502 in sales and marketing, and 648 in administration, human resources, information technology and finance. Our U.S. employees are not represented by any collective bargaining unit, and we regard the relationships with all our employees as satisfactory.
Talent Acquisition and Development:
Alexion’s talent acquisition goal is to attract, retain, and develop the highest quality talent. Alexion employees provide diverse backgrounds and ideas, are trained to operate and act in their work capacity at the highest standards of ethics and integrity, and are dedicated to achieve the highest level of medical innovation and to redefine what it means to live with a rare disease or devastating condition. To support our talent acquisition, our human resources programs are designed to develop talent to prepare them for leadership positions in the future; reward employees through an industry leading benefits program, including competitive pay, incentive compensation, and an equity program; enhance our culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more engaging and inclusive; and retain and develop talent that embody our culture values.
Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging:
Diversity, inclusion, and belonging (DI&B) is a key strategic priority for Alexion. At Alexion, we believe that diversity is fact, inclusion is an act, and belonging is a pact. Our DI&B vision does not stop with diversity and inclusion. We strive to foster a true sense of belonging, which is designed to ensure that every person feels included. During 2020, Alexion established a Chief Diversity Officer role reporting into the CEO and a DI&B function as an important next step in our continued efforts to cultivate diversity, inclusion and a unique sense of belonging. The newly 35
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

established function defines and drives our DI&B strategy that is designed to accelerate Alexion’s efforts to embed diversity across the company, spanning employee programs, external partnerships, corporate social responsibility initiatives, culture efforts and patient programs.
COVID-19 Pandemic:
We are operating at a unique time, as we face a serious public safety crisis as a result of the COVID-19 virus. We remain focused on continuing to serve the patients who rely on us, as well as protecting the health and safety of our employees and the communities in which we live and work. In early March 2020, we activated a task force designed to assess, mitigate and manage the risks related to COVID-19 to avoid or minimize business disruption, including safeguarding of our facilities, and to ensure the safety and sense of security for our staff. In early March 2020, Alexion closed all sites to non-essential employees and the Company has suspended all travel indefinitely. In early June 2020, Alexion gradually allowed re-entry to certain sites in some geographies through a pilot program, including Switzerland, Germany, Australia, and Japan in accordance with local government laws, regulations and restrictions and our own safety procedures and checklists. In September 2020, we extended our global guidance to employees to strongly encourage working remotely until at least July 2021, while offering limited access to physical sites through pilot programs. Office sites are being reconfigured to maintain physical distancing and we expect to adopt and implement additional precautions commensurate with any expansion of employees returning to worksites. To date, our remote working arrangements have not significantly affected our ability to maintain critical business operations.


Information about our Executive Officers
The executive officers of the Company and their respective ages and positions as of February 8, 2021 are as follows:
         
Name Position with Alexion Age 
Ludwig Hantson, Ph.D. Chief Executive Officer 58 
Aradhana Sarin, M.D. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 46 
Tanisha Carino, Ph.D. Executive Vice President, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer 46 
Ellen Chiniara, J.D. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary 62 
Indrani Franchini, J.D. Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer 49 
Brian Goff Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial and Global Operations Officer 51 
John Orloff, M.D. Executive Vice President, Head of Research and Development 63 



      
alxn-20201231_g7.jpg Ludwig N. Hantson, Ph.D., is Chief Executive Officer of Alexion. Dr. Hantson is an accomplished healthcare executive with more than 30 years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry.


Prior to joining Alexion in March 2017, Dr. Hantson was President and Chief Executive Officer of Baxalta and also served on the company’s Board of Directors. He led Baxalta’s successful spin-off as a public company from Baxter in July 2015 where he was President of Baxter BioScience. Dr. Hantson joined Baxter in May 2010 and established the BioScience division as one of the most innovative specialty and rare disease companies by building a robust pipeline of 25 new product candidates and launching 13 new products.


Dr. Hantson held several leadership roles during his decade-long tenure at Novartis from 2001-2010, including CEO of Pharma North America, CEO of Europe, and President of Pharma Canada. Prior to Novartis, he spent 13 years with Johnson & Johnson in roles of increasing responsibility in marketing, and research and development. Dr. Hantson serves on the Board of Directors of Hologic Inc., which is a medical technology company.


Dr. Hantson received his Ph.D. in motor rehabilitation and physical therapy, master’s degree in physical education, and a certification in high secondary education, all from the University of Louvain in Belgium. 
 

36
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      
alxn-20201231_g8.jpg Aradhana Sarin, M.D., is Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Alexion. In this role, she is responsible for overseeing global financial management, treasury, internal audit, corporate strategy, business development, investor relations, security activities, and business operations, including corporate planning, at Alexion.


Dr. Sarin joined Alexion in November 2017 to drive strategy and business development, and she served as Alexion’s Chief Business and Strategy Officer prior to becoming the Chief Financial Officer in October 2019. She brings to Alexion more than 20 years of professional experience at global financial institutions. Dr. Sarin has extensive knowledge of global healthcare systems, and has closed more than 100 transactions across M&A, equity and debt financing transactions. Prior to joining Alexion, Dr. Sarin was Managing Director of Healthcare Corporate & Investment Banking at Citi Global Banking (which she joined in 2010), focusing on clients in the life sciences and biopharmaceutical sectors. Before this, she served as Managing Director of Healthcare Investment Banking at UBS, and worked at JP Morgan in the M&A Advisory and Healthcare groups focusing on transaction execution. Before her banking career, Dr. Sarin trained as a medical doctor in India and spent two years practicing in both India and Africa. 


Dr. Sarin completed her medical training at the University of Delhi and received her MBA from Stanford Business School. 
 

      
alxn-20201231_g9.jpg Tanisha Carino, Ph.D., is Executive Vice President, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer of Alexion. In this role, Dr. Carino is responsible for global government relations, policy and communications.
Prior to joining Alexion, Dr. Carino served as Executive Director of FasterCures, a Center of the Milken Institute, a nonpartisan think tank whose mission is working with global government, philanthropic, and business leaders to accelerate treatments to patients. Prior to leading FasterCures, Dr. Carino was an executive at GlaxoSmithKline where she led the United States policy function, and spent over a decade with Avalere Health, a strategic advisory services organization, where she worked with senior leaders of life sciences companies to maximize opportunities and mitigate challenges related to biomedical research and patient access. Dr. Carino also worked in the U.S. Medicare program to improve access for its beneficiaries and support the development of real-world evidence.


Dr. Carino is a Fulbright Fellow, earned her Ph.D. in health policy from Johns Hopkins University, and is associate faculty at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. Dr. Carino also serves on the Governing Board of the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute (PCORI) and the Board of Directors of the National Health Council.  
 
 

      
alxn-20201231_g10.jpg Ellen Chiniara is Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary of Alexion. In this role, she is responsible for overseeing all global legal matters for the Company.


Ms. Chiniara previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel of Alexion until September 2019. Prior to joining Alexion in January 2018, Ms. Chiniara was Senior Vice President and General Counsel of Alere Inc., a point-of-care diagnostics company, from October 2006 to October 2017 where she was responsible for all legal matters and, from June 2014 to October 2017 she had oversight of compliance and government affairs matters. She managed the legal aspects of the company’s numerous acquisitions and dispositions and was also the executive sponsor of Alere’s corporate social responsibility efforts.


Prior to joining Alere, Ms. Chiniara served as Associate General Counsel for Serono’s Neurology division from 2002 to 2006. Earlier in her career, Ms. Chiniara was a partner at the law firm Hale and Dorr LLP (now Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale and Dorr LLP).


Ms. Chiniara received her J.D. from Stanford University’s School of Law and her Bachelor's Degree from Bryn Mawr College. She also was a graduate fellow at Yale University in Slavic Languages. 
 

37
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      
alxn-20201231_g11.jpg Indrani Franchini, J.D., is Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer of Alexion. Ms. Franchini is responsible for leading Alexion’s global compliance program and co-leads the Global Corporate Compliance Committee.
Ms. Franchini has extensive experience developing and building the infrastructure and company-wide standards for global compliance programs. Prior to joining Alexion in June 2017, Ms. Franchini served as Chief Compliance Officer at Hess Corporation (a leading independent energy company) from June 2012 to July 2017. She previously spent nearly ten years with Pfizer overseeing all compliance elements for the development, marketing, and promotion of its global business. Earlier in her career, Ms. Franchini served as an attorney with Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy in the firm’s New York and Tokyo offices.


Ms. Franchini earned her J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School and a Bachelor of Arts from Princeton University. In addition, she spent a year as a Fulbright Fellow at the Kyushu University Graduate School in Fukuoka, Japan. 
 

      
alxn-20201231_g12.jpg Brian Goff is Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial and Global Operations Officer of Alexion. Mr. Goff leads the global commercial and operations teams, which includes responsibility for country operations in each of Alexion’s affiliates in North America, EMEA, Japan, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. 


Mr. Goff is a proven global biopharmaceutical executive with a 30-year track record of consistently delivering sustainable growth through multiple business cycles. He has deep expertise in commercial operations across multiple therapeutic areas, as well as broad expertise managing global cross-functional teams, including R&D, Medical Affairs, Manufacturing and Quality with a number of industry-leading biopharmaceutical companies.


Prior to joining Alexion in June 2017, Mr. Goff was Chief Operating Officer and a Member of the Board of Directors of Neurovance Inc. from December 2016 until its acquisition by Otsuka Pharmaceuticals in March 2017. Prior to joining Neurovance, Mr. Goff served as Baxalta’s Executive Vice President & President — Hematology Division from January 2015 to July 2016. He previously served with Baxter Healthcare Corporation as Global Hemophilia Franchise Head from June 2012 to December 2014. Earlier in his career, Mr. Goff held positions of increasing responsibility in sales and marketing roles with Novartis Pharmaceuticals, and the pharmaceutical division of Johnson & Johnson.


Mr. Goff has an MBA from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania and a Bachelor of Arts from Skidmore College. 
 

      
alxn-20201231_g13.jpg John Orloff, M.D., is Executive Vice President, Head of Research & Development of Alexion. Dr. Orloff is focused on strengthening Alexion’s clinical pipeline and research programs, enhancing research and development productivity, overseeing regulatory and medical affairs, and supporting business development. 
Dr. Orloff has 20 years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry and deep expertise spanning various stages of clinical and non-clinical development, including developing medicines for rare diseases.
Prior to joining Alexion in June 2017, Dr. Orloff served as Executive Vice President, Head of Research & Development at Novelion from November 2016 to May 2017, where he currently sits on the Board of Directors. From July 2015 to July 2016, he served with Baxalta as Global Head of R&D and Chief Scientific Officer, where he advanced the company’s pipeline and oversaw regulatory approval of 10 unique products and two devices. He also held executive R&D roles with Baxter International from July 2014 to June 2015, Merck Serono from January 2014 to May 2014, Novartis from April 2003 to October 2013 and Merck Research Laboratories. Prior to joining the biopharmaceutical industry in 1997, Dr. Orloff was with the Yale School of Medicine for seven years.
Dr. Orloff received a Bachelor of Arts from Dartmouth College, and a M.D. from the University of Vermont College of Medicine. He completed his medical training at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and Yale University School of Medicine. 
 
 



Available Information
Our internet website address is http://www.alexion.com. Through our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to those reports, proxy and registration statements, and all of our insider Section 16 reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. These SEC reports can be accessed through the “Investors” section of our website. The information found on our website (or that may 
38
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


be accessed through links on our website) is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Paper copies of our SEC reports are available free of charge upon request in writing to Investor Relations, Alexion Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 121 Seaport Boulevard, Boston Massachusetts 02210. In addition, any document we file may be viewed at the SEC’s internet address at http://www.sec.gov. (This website address is not intended to function as a hyperlink, and the information contained in the SEC’s website is not intended to be a part of this filing).
The company intends to use its website http://www.alexion.com as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD. Such disclosures will be included on the company’s website under the heading “Investors”. Accordingly, investors should monitor such portions of the company’s website, in addition to following the company’s press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. 
