ANSYS, Inc. (Ansys, we, us, our), a Delaware corporation formed in 1994, develops and globally markets engineering simulation software and services widely used by engineers, designers, researchers and students across a broad spectrum of industries and academia, including aerospace and defense, automotive, electronics, semiconductors, energy, materials and chemical processing, turbomachinery, consumer products, healthcare, and sports. Headquartered south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, we employed approximately 4,800 people as of December 31, 2020. We focus on the development of open and flexible solutions that enable users to analyze designs directly on the desktop, providing a common platform for fast, efficient and cost-conscious product development, from design concept to final-stage testing and validation. We distribute our suite of simulation technologies through direct sales offices in strategic, global locations and a global network of independent resellers and distributors (collectively, channel partners). It is our intention to continue to maintain this hybrid sales and distribution model. We operate and report as one segment. 
Our strategy of Pervasive Engineering Simulation™ seeks to deepen the use of simulation in our core, to inject simulation throughout the product lifecycle and to embed simulation into our partners' ecosystems. The engineering software simulation market is strong and growing. Its market growth is driven by customers’ need for rapid, quality innovation in a cost efficient 
4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
manner, enabling faster time to market of new products and lower warranty costs. While the transition away from physical prototyping toward simulation is prevalent through all industries, its demand is heightened by investments in high-growth solutions, including 5G, electrification, autonomous and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). Our strategy of Pervasive Engineering Simulation is aligned with the market growth.
Our product portfolio consists of the following:
Platform
Ansys Workbench™ is the framework upon which our suite of advanced multiphysics engineering simulation technologies is built. The innovative project schematic view ties together the entire simulation process, guiding the user through complex multiphysics analyses with drag-and-drop simplicity. With bi-directional computer-aided design (CAD) connectivity, powerful highly-automated meshing, a project-level update mechanism, pervasive parameter management and integrated optimization tools, the Ansys Workbench platform enables Pervasive Engineering Simulation.
Our Workbench framework allows engineers and designers to incorporate the compounding effects of multiple physics into a virtual prototype of their design and simulate its operation under real-world conditions. As product architectures become smaller, lighter and more complex, companies must be able to accurately predict how products will behave in real-world environments where multiple types of physics interact in a coupled way. Our multiphysics software enables engineers to simulate the interactions between structures, heat transfer, and fluids and electronics all within a single, unified engineering simulation environment.
Our high-performance computing (HPC) product suite and Cloud solutions enable enhanced insight into product performance and improve the productivity of the design process. The HPC and Cloud offerings provide cross-physics parallel processing capabilities for the full spectrum of our simulation software and support structures, fluids, thermal and electronics simulations. This product suite decreases turnaround time for individual simulations, allowing users to consider multiple design ideas and make the right design decisions early in the design cycle.
Ansys Minerva is a knowledge management application that secures critical simulation data, and provides simulation process and decision support to simulation teams across geographies and functional silos. Available for both on-premise and cloud deployment, Minerva delivers immediate benefits by connecting simulation and optimization to customers’ existing ecosystem of tools and processes. Minerva provides integration and automation of chained data flows and design space exploration for optimal performance parameters. With Ansys Minerva, Ansys customers can connect simulation for life cycle traceability and to enable collaboration and decision support.
Structures
Our structural analysis product suite offers simulation tools for product design and optimization that increase productivity, minimize physical prototyping and help to deliver better and more innovative products in less time. These tools tackle real-world analysis problems by making product development less costly and more reliable. In addition, these tools have capabilities that cover a broad range of analysis types, elements, contacts, materials, equation solvers and coupled physics capabilities, all targeted toward understanding and solving complex design problems. We also provide comprehensive topology optimization tools that engineers use to design structural components to meet loading requirements with minimal material and component weight. We offer a complete simulation workflow for additive manufacturing that allows reliable 3D printing by simulating the laser sintering process and delivering compensated CAD geometries that ensure reliable printed parts.
Fluids
Our fluids product suite enables modeling of fluid flow and other related physical phenomena. Fluid flow analysis capabilities provide all the tools needed to design and optimize new fluids equipment and to troubleshoot already existing installations. The suite contains general-purpose computational fluid dynamics software and specialized products to address specific industry applications.
Electronics
Our electronics product suite provides field simulation software for designing high-performance electronic and electromechanical products. The software streamlines the design process and predicts performance of mobile communication and internet-access devices, broadband networking components and systems, integrated circuits (ICs) and printed circuit boards (PCBs), as well as electromechanical systems such as automotive components and power electronics equipment, all prior to building a prototype.
5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Semiconductors
Advancements in semiconductor design and manufacturing enable smaller electronic architectures. Shrinking geometries, especially in the emerging 3D IC, FinFET and stacked-die architectures, reveal design challenges related to power and reliability. Our power analysis and optimization software suite manages the power budget, power delivery integrity and power-induced noise in an electronic design, from initial prototyping to system sign-off. These solutions deliver accuracy with correlation to silicon measurement; the capacity to handle an entire electronic system, including IC, package and PCB, efficiently for ease-of-debugging and fast turnaround time; and comprehensiveness to facilitate cross-domain communications and electronic ecosystem enablement.
Embedded Software
Our SCADE® product suite is a comprehensive solution for embedded software simulation, code production and automated certification. It has been developed specifically for use in critical systems with high dependability requirements, including aerospace, rail transportation, nuclear, industrial and automotive applications. SCADE software supports the entire development workflow, from requirements analysis and design, through verification, implementation and deployment. SCADE solutions easily integrate with each other and the rest of our product suite, allowing for development optimization and increased communication among team members.
Systems
We deliver a unique and comprehensive system simulation capability that is ideal for the design of today's increasingly automated products. This collaborative environment leverages our multiphysics, multibody dynamics, circuit and embedded software simulation capabilities, enabling users to simulate the complex interactions between components, circuits and control software within a single environment. These technologies provide a complete view into predicted product performance, which creates greater design confidence for engineers.
3D Design
Our Discovery™ product family allows every engineer to benefit from the insight of simulation in their product design. The Discovery products range from early design exploration tools powered by interactive real-time simulation and intuitive geometry editing, to detailed product validation solutions utilizing proven flagship solver technology with easy-to-use guided workflows. These tools allow for design engineers of all levels of expertise to utilize simulation across the entire product design process and to work seamlessly with simulation experts using our flagship products for even more advanced analysis. 
Optical
Using optical sensor and closed-loop, real-time simulation, our capabilities now span the simulation of all sensors, including lidar, cameras and radar; the multiphysics simulation of physical and electronic components; the analysis of systems functional safety; as well as the automated development of safety-certified embedded software. This functionality can be integrated into a closed-loop simulation environment that interacts with weather and traffic simulators for automotive applications, enabling thousands of driving scenarios to be executed virtually.
Photonics
Our April 1, 2020 acquisition of Lumerical Inc. (Lumerical), a leading developer of photonic design and simulation tools, adds best-in-class photonic products to our multiphysics portfolio, providing customers with a full set of solutions to solve their next-generation product challenges. Refer to the section titled "New Product Offerings" for additional discussion around our photonics offerings.
Missions
Our December 1, 2020 acquisition of Analytical Graphics, Inc. (AGI), a premier provider of mission-simulation, modeling, testing and analysis software for aerospace, defense and intelligence applications, empowers our users to solve challenges by simulating from the chip level all the way to a customer's entire mission. Refer to the section titled "New Product Offerings" for additional discussion around our missions offerings.
Materials
With our materials technology, our customers benefit from access to the world's premier system for managing corporate material intelligence and the market-leading solution for materials sources, selection and management. Ansys Granta MI is a leading system for materials information management in engineering enterprises. Ansys Granta Selector is the standard tool for 
6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
materials selection and graphical analysis of materials properties. A comprehensive materials data library plus unique software tools enable engineers to use materials to innovate and evolve products, quickly identify solutions to material issues, confirm and validate choice of materials, and reduce material and development costs. CES EduPack is a unique set of teaching resources that supports materials education across engineering, design, science and sustainable development. Granta Materials Data for Simulation provides easy access to materials property data from within Ansys Mechanical and the Ansys Electronics Desktop environment.
Academic
Our academic product suite provides a highly scalable portfolio of academic products based on several usage tiers, including associate, research and teaching. Each tier includes various non-commercial products that bundle a broad range of physics and advanced coupled field solver capabilities. The academic product suite provides entry-level tools intended for class demonstrations and hands-on instruction. It includes flexible terms of use and more complex analysis suitable for doctoral and post-doctoral research projects. We also provide a special product at no cost to students that is suitable for use away from the classroom and in non-commercial applications.
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 
We make significant investments in research and development and emphasize frequent, integrated product releases. Our product development strategy centers on ongoing development and innovation of new technologies to increase productivity and to provide engineering simulation solutions that customers can integrate into enterprise-wide product lifecycle management (PLM) systems. Our product development efforts focus on extensions of the full product line with new functional modules, further integration with CAD, electronic CAD (ECAD) and PLM products, and the development of new products. Our products run on the most widely-used engineering computing platforms and operating systems, including Windows, Linux and most UNIX workstations.
Our total research and development expenses were $355.4 million, $298.2 million and $233.8 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, or 21.1%, 19.7% and 18.1% of total revenue, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, our product development staff consisted of approximately 1,800 and 1,500 employees, respectively, most of whom hold advanced degrees and have industry experience in engineering, mathematics, computer science or related disciplines. We have traditionally invested significant resources in research and development activities and intend to continue to make investments in expanding the ease of use and capabilities of our broad portfolio of simulation software products.
We recently completed the following major product development activities and releases:
•In January 2021, we released Ansys 2021 R1, which delivers improvements in simulation technology along with the immense compute power of high-performance computing to reimagine what is now possible for global engineering teams. Our simulation solutions offer new levels of collaboration, providing insight into product safety, reliability and performance. The simplified workflows and unique product enhancements in Ansys 2021 R1 create opportunities for engineers to accomplish design and product development goals that were previously thought unattainable.
Ansys 2021 R1 provides advancements for large electromagnetic system simulations that previously were not possible, while including vendor components in those simulations with greater efficiency and scalability. These components can be encrypted, so vendors can share proprietary 3D component designs and create high-fidelity simulations. Ansys 2021 R1 also pushes semiconductor engineering boundaries, delivering comprehensive analysis of signal integrity, power integrity, and thermal and mechanical stress on 3D multi-die systems. While thermo-mechanical stresses and warpage can damage 3D-IC packages, leveraging proven Ansys flagship technology enables users to increase product lifespan and reliability.
•In July 2020, we released Ansys 2020 R2, which brings enhanced solving and collaboration capabilities, key for enabling globally distributed teams to further organization-wide innovation. This release upgrades our HPC resources and platform solutions that reduce costs and speed production. Our newly updated advanced digital engineering tools help engineering teams develop new products, sustain business continuity, improve productivity and win the race to market.


We also released the new Ansys Discovery, a next generation, easy-to-use product design software application. Ansys Discovery is the first simulation-driven design tool to combine instant physics simulation, Ansys' proven high-fidelity simulation and interactive geometry modeling into a single design exploration application. Conducting real-time, rapid iterative design explorations, more engineers can now explore larger design spaces and quickly answer critical design questions earlier in the product design process.
7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Acquired Technologies
Our 2020 acquisitions, each a leader in their respective fields, are intended to bolster our strategy of Pervasive Engineering Simulation. The acquired technologies significantly enhance our portfolio, providing solutions valuable to our customers.
The acquisition of Lumerical enables our customers to predict light's behavior within complex photonic structures and systems. Silicon photonics is an expanding market and Lumerical provides a comprehensive set of tools for the design and analysis of integrated photonic components and systems, similar to the traditional electronic design automation (EDA) environment. Lumerical complements Ansys SPEOS by serving as a de facto light source for predicting the illumination and optical performance of systems such as interior automobile lighting.
The acquisition of AGI enables our customers to consider the entire mission engineering of a product or system. Engineered products and systems can involve thousands of components, subsystems, systems, and systems of systems that must work together intricately. Our software simulates all these pieces of the puzzle and their functional relationships to each other, and increasingly to their environments.
PRODUCT QUALITY 
Our employees generally perform product development tasks according to predefined quality plans, procedures and work instructions. Certain technical support tasks are also subject to a quality process. These plans define, for each project, the methods to be used, the responsibilities of project participants and the quality objectives to be met. The majority of our software products are developed under a quality system that is certified to the ISO 9001:2015 standard. We establish quality plans for our products and services, and subject product designs to multiple levels of testing and verification in accordance with processes established under our quality system.
SALES AND MARKETING 
We distribute and support our products through our own direct sales offices, as well as a global network of independent channel partners. This channel partner network provides us with a cost-effective, highly-specialized channel of distribution and technical support. It also enables us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global network, provides relative stability to our operations to help mitigate geography-specific economic trends and provides us with an opportunity to take advantage of new geographic markets or enhance our sales coverage in existing markets.
The channel partners market and sell our products to new customers, expand installations within the existing customer base, offer training and consulting services, and provide the first line of our technical support. Our channel partner certification process helps to ensure that each channel partner has the ongoing capability to adequately represent our expanding product lines and to provide an acceptable level of training, consultation and customer support. We derived 22.2%, 22.9% and 22.4% of our total revenue through the indirect sales channel for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
We also have a direct sales organization to develop an enterprise-wide, focused sales approach and to implement a worldwide go-to-market account strategy. The sales management organization also functions as a focal point for requests from the channel partners and provides additional support in strategic locations through the presence of direct sales offices.
During 2020, we continued to invest in our existing domestic and international strategic sales offices. In total, our direct sales and marketing organization comprised 2,400 and 2,100 employees as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, who were responsible for the sales, technical support, consulting services, marketing initiatives, and administrative activities designed to support our overall revenue growth and expansion strategies.
Our products are utilized by organizations ranging in size from small consulting firms to the world's largest high-tech and industrial companies. No single customer accounted for more than 5% of our revenue in 2020, 2019 or 2018.
Information with respect to foreign and domestic revenue may be found in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
STRATEGIC ALLIANCES AND MARKETING RELATIONSHIPS
We have established and continued to pursue strategic alliances with advanced technology suppliers, cloud computing providers, hardware vendors, software vendors, specialized application developers, and CAD, ECAD and PLM providers. We believe that these relationships facilitate accelerated incorporation of advanced technology into our products, provide access to new customers, expand our sales channels, develop specialized product applications, and provide direct integration with leading CAD, electronic design automation (EDA), product data management and PLM systems.
We have technical and marketing relationships with leading CAD vendors, such as Autodesk, PTC and Siemens Digital Industries, to provide direct links between products. These links facilitate the transfer of electronic data models between the CAD systems and our products.
We partner with PTC to accelerate product innovation by providing customers a world-class simulation-driven design solution. Working together, we are delivering Ansys Live real-time simulation technology within PTC’s Creo® 3D CAD software. The combined solution, Creo Simulation Live, is sold by PTC as part of the Creo product suite. This solution offers customers a unified modeling and simulation environment, removing the boundaries between CAD and simulation and enabling design engineers to gain insight into each of the many design decisions they make throughout the product development process. This insight enables design engineers to create higher quality products, while reducing product and development costs. In November 2020, PTC released Creo Ansys Simulation, which includes a subset of our flagship solver technology integrated into Creo.
We maintain marketing and software development relationships with leading EDA software companies, including Cadence Design Systems, Synopsys, Siemens EDA, and Zuken. These relationships support the transfer of data between electronics design and layout software and our electronics simulation portfolio. We have an integration and distribution agreement with Synopsys to cooperatively integrate Ansys RedHawk technology into an in-design add-on to a Synopsys design tool for the primary purpose of providing customers with direct, in-design access to the RedHawk technology's capabilities. In addition, we continue to focus on customer solutions and are actively working together to build additional products and interoperability workflows.
We have a strategic relationship with Microsoft that spans several Ansys business units and markets. The primary focus of the relationship centers on Ansys Cloud, which is a cloud-based simulation service fully managed by Ansys and hosted on Microsoft’s Azure Cloud infrastructure. Ansys Cloud provides on-demand access to HPC directly from within our flagship applications. We continue to expand the licensing options and functionality of Ansys Cloud, often working closely with Microsoft for support and technical advice. The market-specific projects we have in place with Microsoft include: Ansys digital twins’ connection with Microsoft Azure IoT solutions; Ansys Autonomy software for autonomous vehicles running on Azure; and co-sponsoring the Indy Autonomous Challenge self-driving car race, in which 30+ universities are building and racing self-driving cars around the iconic speedway in Indianapolis in the fall of 2021.
Our Partner Program actively encourages developers of specialized software solutions to use our technology as a development platform for their applications and provides customers with enhanced functionality related to their use of our software. With more than 200 active solution partnerships, spanning a wide range of technologies, including materials, optimization, electronics, optical, mechanical, fluid and systems simulation, our partner ecosystem extends the depth and breadth of our technology offerings. We also work to democratize HPC to a wider audience through partnerships with cloud computing providers, cloud-hosting partners, HPC hardware manufacturers and supercomputing centers.
COMPETITION
We believe that the principal factors affecting sales of our software include ease of use, breadth and depth of functionality, flexibility, quality, ease of integration with other software systems, file compatibility across computer platforms, range of supported computer platforms, performance, price and total cost of ownership, customer service and support, company reputation and financial viability, and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts.
We continue to experience competition across all markets for our products and services. Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically-focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by the end users. Some of our current and possible future competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than us, and some have well-established relationships with current and potential customers of ours. Our current and possible future competitors also include firms that have elected, or may in the future elect, to compete by means of open source licensing. These competitive pressures may result in decreased sales volumes, price reductions and/or increased operating costs, and could result in lower revenues, margins and net income.
9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSES
We regard our software as proprietary and rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws, license agreements, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights in our products. We distribute our software products under software license agreements that predominantly grant customers nonexclusive licenses, which are typically nontransferable, for the use of our products. License agreements for our products are generally directly between us and end users. Use of the licensed software product is restricted to specified sites unless the customer obtains a multi-site license for its use of the software product or the software product is by its nature a multi-site use product. Software security measures are also employed to prevent unauthorized use of our software products and the licensed software is subject to terms and conditions prohibiting unauthorized use, distribution, or reproduction. For most products, customers may purchase a perpetual license of the technology with the right to annually purchase ongoing maintenance, technical support and upgrades, or may lease the product on a fixed-term basis for a fee that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades. For some products, customers purchase an annual subscription for a certain number of named users that includes the license, maintenance, technical support and upgrades or purchase elastic units, which enable the use of any supported product at any time until their licensed volume is met.
We license our software products utilizing a combination of web-based and hard-copy license terms and forms. For certain software products, we primarily rely on "click-wrapped" licenses (i.e. online agreements where the website provider posts terms and conditions, and the user clicks on the "accept" button). The enforceability of these types of agreements under the laws of some jurisdictions is uncertain.
We also seek to protect the source code of our software as a trade secret and as registered unpublished copyrighted work. We have obtained federal trademark registration protection for Ansys and other marks in the U.S. and foreign countries. Additionally, we were awarded numerous patents by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or equivalent offices in other jurisdictions and have a number of patent applications pending. To the extent we do not choose to seek patent protection for our intellectual property, we primarily rely on the protection of our source code as a trade secret.
Our employees have signed agreements under which they have agreed not to disclose trade secrets or confidential information. These agreements, where legally permitted, restrict engagement in or connection with any business that is competitive with us anywhere in the world while employed by us (and, in some cases, for specified periods thereafter) and state that any products or technology created by employees during their term of employment are our property. In addition, we require all channel partners to enter into agreements not to disclose our trade secrets and other proprietary information. 
Despite these precautions, there can be no assurance that misappropriation of our technology and proprietary information (including source code) will be prevented. Further, there can be no assurance that copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret protection will be available for our products in certain jurisdictions, or that restrictions on the ability of employees and channel partners to engage in activities competitive with us will be enforceable. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary in the future to enforce our rights to our trade secrets and proprietary information or to enforce our patent rights and copyrights, and it is possible that, in the future, our competitors may be able to obtain our trade secrets or to independently develop similar technology.
The software development industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Therefore, we believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition and reliable product maintenance are also important to establishing and maintaining technology leadership in addition to the various available legal protections of our technology. 
We do not believe that any of our products infringe upon the proprietary rights of third parties. There can be no assurance, however, that third parties will not claim such infringement by us or our licensors or licensees with respect to current or future products. In addition, there are non-practicing entities (NPEs) and patent assertion entities (PAEs) whose business models are built on not producing any products, but rather extracting payments from revenue-generating companies through patent infringement assertions and/or litigation. We expect that software suppliers will increasingly be subject to the risk of such claims as the number of products and suppliers continues to expand and the functionality of products continues to increase. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product release delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us.
SEASONAL VARIATIONS
Our business has experienced seasonality, including quarterly volatility in software sales resulting from slowdowns of customer activities during the summer months, particularly in Europe, as well as from the seasonal purchasing and budgeting patterns of 
10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
our global customers. Lease and maintenance contract renewals, as well as our revenue, are typically highest in the fourth quarter.
DEFERRED REVENUE AND BACKLOG
Deferred revenue consists of billings made or payments received in advance of revenue recognition from customer agreements. The deferred revenue on our consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total value of annual or multi-year, noncancellable agreements. Our backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle. Our deferred revenue and backlog as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following:
                  
 Balance at December 31, 2020 
(in thousands) Total  Current  Long-Term 
Deferred revenue $ 388,810    $ 372,061    $ 16,749   
Backlog 578,317    234,719    343,598   
Total $ 967,127    $ 606,780    $ 360,347   



                  
 Balance at December 31, 2019 
(in thousands) Total  Current  Long-Term 
Deferred revenue $ 365,274    $ 351,353    $ 13,921   
Backlog 505,469    218,398    287,071   
Total $ 870,743    $ 569,751    $ 300,992   



Revenue associated with deferred revenue and backlog that will be recognized in the subsequent twelve months is classified as current in the tables above.
HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES
At the heart of our culture is a commitment to our people. We believe that our people are one of our most important investments and greatest assets. The success and the growth of our business depend on our ability to attract, develop, incent and retain a diverse population of talented, qualified and highly-skilled employees at all levels of our organization, including our executive officers, and across our global workforce. We have developed key recruitment and retention strategies, objectives and measures that serve as the framework for our human capital management approach. These strategies, objectives and measures are advanced through a number of programs, policies and initiatives, including: promoting diversity, equity and inclusion; employer branding and talent acquisition; ongoing employee development; competitive compensation, including incentives linked to Ansys’ and the employee’s performance, and competitive benefits programs providing choice and value to our employees; supporting safety and health; and surveying employee satisfaction and engagement.
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 4,800 people, including approximately: 1,800 in product development, 2,400 in sales, support and marketing, and 600 in general and administrative functions. Of these employees, 47% were located in the Americas, 28% were located in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and 25% were located in Asia-Pacific (APAC). Certain international employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements or have local work councils.
11
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Diversity, equity and inclusion are key tenets of our culture. We believe diversity at all levels of our organization adds value to our business decision making and innovation by encouraging and incorporating a variety of perspectives and experiences. 
As of December 31, 2020, our gender diversity was:
                  
 Male  Female  Other/Not Indicated 
Global employees 73  %  22  %  5  % 
Senior leadership team(1) 76  %  24  %  —  % 
Board of Directors 75  %  25  %  —  % 

(1)The senior leadership team consists of leaders in our executive career track that report directly to the chief executive officer or within one additional reporting level of the chief executive officer and those at the highest tier of our management career track who report directly to a leader on our executive track. The senior leaders are responsible for directing strategic plans aligned with our corporate strategy through multiple levels of management.


As of December 31, 2020, our ethnic diversity was:
                                    
 White  Asian  Hispanic or Latino  Black or African American  Other*  Not Indicated 
United States-based employees 52  %  29  %  2  %  1  %  1  %  15  % 
Board of Directors 62  %  25  %  —  %  13  %  —  %  —  % 

*Other includes Native Hawaiian, American Indian, Alaskan Native, Pacific Islander, or two or more races.


We have a growing number of employee resource groups dedicated to ensuring a culture of inclusion to support our goals of increasing retention of valuable employees and creating an open culture that fuels innovation, including: Women in Tech at Ansys, Ansys Pride Alliance, Black Employee Network at Ansys, Ansys Military Veterans and Families, and most-recently, a group called Accessibility at Ansys. Additionally, we have committed to training 100% of our people managers on inclusive leadership concepts such as unconscious bias, leading to establish belonging, and making objective talent selection decisions. 
Employee Recruitment, Development and Retention
Our talent strategy is focused on (i) attracting diverse high-quality talent, (ii) continually developing and engaging our employee base and (iii) retaining our people by recognizing and rewarding performance. Our commitment to recruiting diverse talent is evidenced in the United States through our dedication to increasing recruiting efforts at historically black colleges and universities, as well as our involvement with minority engineering societies, women in technology groups, veterans’ organizations and LGBTQ+A organizations. In addition to targeted outreach, we recruit talent through (i) attending career and networking events aimed towards recruiting diverse audiences, (ii) hiring internally through our Ansys internship/co-op programs for current students and (iii) value partnerships that promote our programs to diverse audiences. Our academic product suite is also widely used in research and teaching settings, which allows students to become familiar with Ansys simulation software and creates opportunities to strengthen our university ties and recruit fresh talent.
We support the development of our employees by providing professional development and tuition assistance, conducting annual individual assessments, and encouraging feedback on performance. We also drive a variety of focused initiatives specifically designed to support employee development. These include our annual talent reviews and succession planning, emotional intelligence trainings, and company-sponsored education programs, such as management essentials to develop front-line leaders in foundational people management skills.
Developing our employees helps keep employees engaged and excited about their future at Ansys. It also helps mitigate risks associated with employee loss and keeping up with rapid technological and social change. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our annual turnover rate was 6%, and of this, 4% was voluntary.


Compensation and Benefits Program


Our compensation programs provide an opportunity for employees to earn higher compensation by aligning their performance, which may include contributions to our environmental, social and governance objectives, with the overall financial and operational success of Ansys. The program includes three key elements: (i) competitive annual salaries, (ii) annual cash incentives and sales commission programs, with a majority of our employees eligible to earn more or less than the target opportunities based on both Ansys’ and the employee’s performance and (iii) long-term equity incentives with over half of 
12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
employees receiving equity grants each year in the form of time-based restricted stock units and, in the case of senior leadership, time-based restricted stock units and performance stock units that vest, if at all, based on our financial performance and shareholder returns. These grants align the long-term financial interests of our employees with those of our stockholders.


Health and welfare benefit programs include market-competitive benefits comprised of a mix of company-provided and other benefits, including those for medical, dental and vision insurance; life and disability insurance; defined contribution retirement plans; and many different employee assistance programs, such as financial, legal, emotional and social well-being employee assistance programs. Our investments in health and welfare benefits focus on providing choice and value to our employees so they can select market-competitive benefits that support their personal needs.


Local regulations are considered when developing our compensation and benefits packages for employees across the globe.


Safety and Health


The health and safety of our employees and their families, our partners and our broad Ansys community around the world continues to be a high priority. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we took action to enable our employees to work from home. We closed our offices (including our corporate headquarters), transitioned to a remote work environment, and implemented certain travel restrictions, each of which has changed how we operate our business. While a number of our offices have since reopened, most of our locations have limited access or have few employees working on site. We are continuing to monitor and manage the situation, but as of now remote access remains the primary means of work for the vast majority of our workforce.


We utilize a number of technology platforms to facilitate remote working. Most of these tools were implemented prior to the COVID-19 pandemic and have proven to be instrumental in enabling us to work effectively in this environment. We have also provided our employees with support, including stipends, and in some cases, needed hardware and equipment. In addition, we have implemented many protocols in our offices to keep our employees safe.


Employee Satisfaction and Engagement
Employee feedback and engagement is critical to our success. We conduct global employee engagement surveys with the goal of using the feedback to improve the work environment and employee satisfaction. In 2020, this feedback was critical to understand, as nearly all our employees were required to work remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Survey results showed that our executive team provided outstanding management and leadership during the pandemic. 96% of employees indicated that they were satisfied with our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and 93% reported feeling supported by their immediate manager and their efforts to adapt to the rapidly changing environment related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Employee feedback is important in the areas of future vision, recognition, communication, leadership, growth and development. Managers communicate results of the survey to their teams and involve employees in the action planning process. The findings from these surveys help us to continually improve performance and engagement. Our 2020 global engagement survey demonstrated that our employees are highly engaged. Our engagement score results indicated that we improved against past performance and also exceeded external benchmarks.


ACQUISITIONS
We make targeted acquisitions in order to support our long-term strategic direction, accelerate innovation, provide increased capabilities to our existing products, supply new products and services, expand our customer base and enhance our distribution channels. For additional details on our recent acquisitions, refer to "Acquisitions" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
AVAILABLE INFORMATION
Information about our products and services is available on the internet at www.ansys.com. We provide information for investors on our corporate website under "About Ansys – Investor Relations." 
We make available, free of charge, the following under “About Ansys – Investor Relations” shortly before or promptly following its first use or release: financially-related press releases, including earnings releases and prepared remarks, various SEC filings, including annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements, presentation materials associated with earnings conference calls, and access to live and recorded audio from earnings and other investor conference calls or events. For earnings conference calls, we generally include in our posted materials a cautionary statement regarding forward-looking and non-GAAP financial information, and we provide GAAP reconciliations when we include non-GAAP financial information. Such GAAP reconciliations may be in materials for the applicable presentation, in materials for prior presentations or in our annual, quarterly or current reports. Other information posted on our corporate website that may not be available in our filings 
13
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents
with the SEC includes information relating to our corporate governance. SEC filings may also be obtained on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
Where we have included internet addresses in this Report, such as our internet address and the internet address of the SEC, we have included those internet addresses as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this Report, information on those websites is not part hereof.
