OVERVIEW
Aon plc (which may be referred to as “Aon,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is a leading global professional services firm that provides advice and solutions to clients focused on risk, retirement, and health, delivering distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions that are under-pinned by industry-leading data and analytics. Our strategy is to be the preeminent professional services firm in the world, focused on risk and people. 
Our clients are globally diversified and include all market segments and almost every industry in over 120 countries and sovereignties. This diversification of our customer base helps provide us stability in different economic scenarios that could affect specific industries, customer segments, or geographies.
We have continued to focus our portfolio on higher-margin, capital-light professional services businesses that have high recurring revenue streams and strong cash flow generation. We endeavor to make capital allocation decisions based upon return on invested capital. 
On March 9, 2020, Aon and Willis Towers Watson Public Limited Company, an Irish public limited company (“WTW”), entered into a Business Combination Agreement with respect to a combination of the parties (the “Combination”). At the effective date of the Combination, WTW shareholders will be entitled to receive 1.08 newly issued Class A ordinary shares of Aon in exchange for each ordinary share of WTW held by such holders. Aon expects to close the Combination in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions.
IRELAND REORGANIZATION
On April 1, 2020, a scheme of arrangement under English law was completed pursuant to which the Class A ordinary shares of Aon plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and the publicly traded parent company of the Aon group (“Aon Global Limited”), were cancelled and the holders thereof received, on a one-for-one basis, Class A ordinary shares of Aon plc, an Irish public limited company formerly known as Aon Limited (“Aon plc”) , as described in the proxy statement filed with the SEC on December 20, 2019 (the “Ireland Reorganization”). Aon plc is a tax resident of Ireland. References in this report to “Aon,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” for time periods prior to April 1, 2020 refer to Aon Global Limited. References in the Financial Statements to “Aon,” the “Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” for time periods on or after April 1, 2020, refer to Aon plc.
BUSINESS SEGMENT
The Company operates as one segment that includes all of Aon’s continuing operations, which, as a global professional services firm, provides advice and solutions to clients focused on risk, retirement, and health through five principal products and services: Commercial Risk Solutions, Reinsurance Solutions, Retirement Solutions, Health Solutions, and Data & Analytic Services. Collectively, these products and service lines make up our one segment: Aon United. In addition, the Company is continuing to expand on Aon United growth initiatives through its New Ventures Group.
In 2020, our consolidated total revenue was $11,066 million. This includes $4,690 million in Commercial Risk Solutions, $1,814 million in Reinsurance Solutions, $1,753 million in Retirement Solutions, $1,655 million in Health Solutions, and $1,171 million in Data & Analytic Services, before intercompany eliminations.
Principal Products and Services
Commercial Risk Solutions includes retail brokerage, cyber solutions, global risk consulting, and captives. In retail brokerage, our team of expert risk advisors applies a client-focused approach to commercial risk products and services that leverage Aon’s global network of resources, industry-leading data and analytics, and specialized expertise. Cyber solutions is one of the industry’s premier resources in cyber risk management. Our strategic focus extends to identify and protect critical digital assets supported by best-in-class transactional capabilities, enhanced coverage expertise, deep carrier relationships, and incident response expertise. Global risk consulting is a world-leading provider of risk consulting services supporting clients to better understand and manage their risk profile through identifying and quantifying the risks they face. We assist clients with the selection and implementation of the appropriate risk transfer, risk retention, and risk mitigation solutions, and ensure the continuity of their operations through claims consulting. Captives is a leading global captive insurance solutions provider that manages over 1,100 insurance entities worldwide including captives, protected segregated and incorporated cell facilities, as well as entities that support insurance-linked securities and specialist insurance and reinsurance companies.
6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Reinsurance Solutions includes treaty and facultative reinsurance and capital markets. Treaty reinsurance addresses underwriting and capital objectives on a portfolio level, allowing our clients to more effectively manage the combination of premium growth, return on capital, and rating agency interests on an integrated basis. This includes the development of more competitive, innovative, and efficient risk transfer options. Facultative reinsurance empowers clients to better understand, manage, and transfer risk through innovative facultative solutions and provides the most efficient access to the global facultative reinsurance markets. Capital markets is a global investment bank with expertise in insurance-linked securities, capital raising, strategic advice, restructuring, and mergers and acquisitions. We partner with insurers, reinsurers, investment firms, and corporations in executing innovative risk management products, capital market solutions and corporate finance advisory services.
Retirement Solutions includes core retirement, investment consulting, and human capital. Retirement consulting specializes in providing organizations across the globe with strategic design consulting on their retirement programs, actuarial services, and risk management, including pension de-risking, governance, integrated pension administration, and legal and compliance consulting. Investment consulting provides public and private companies and other institutions with advice on developing and maintaining investment programs across a broad range of plan types, including defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans, endowments, and foundations. Within investment consulting, our delegated investment solutions offer ongoing management of investment programs and fiduciary responsibilities either in a partial or full discretionary model for multiple asset owners. It partners with clients to deliver our scale and experience to help them effectively manage their investments, risk, and governance and potentially lower costs. Human capital delivers advice and solutions that help clients accelerate business outcomes by improving the performance of their people including, assessment, optimized deployment, and the design, alignment, and benchmarking of compensation to business strategy and performance outcomes.
Health Solutions includes health and benefits brokerage and health care exchanges. Health and benefits brokerage partners with employers to develop innovative, customized benefits strategies that help manage risk, drive engagement, and promote accountability. Our private health exchange solutions help employers transform how they sponsor, structure, and deliver health benefits by building and operating a cost effective alternative to traditional employee and retiree health care. We seek outcomes of reduced employer costs, risk, and volatility, alongside greater coverage and plan choices for individual participants. 
Data & Analytic Services includes Affinity, Aon Inpoint, CoverWallet, and ReView. Affinity specializes in developing, marketing and administering customized insurance programs and specialty market solutions for Affinity organizations and their members or affiliates. Aon Inpoint draws on the Global Risk Insight Platform, one of Aon’s proprietary databases, and is dedicated to making insurers, reinsurers. and other financial services participants more competitive by providing data, analytics, engagement, and consulting services. CoverWallet is a leading digital insurance platform for small- and medium-sized businesses dedicated to delivering exceptional client experiences to new and existing clients by leveraging data and analytics and a technology-enabled operating model to provide choice, transparency and convenience. ReView draws on another Aon proprietary database and broker market knowledge to provide advisory services, analysis, and benchmarking to help reinsurers more effectively meet the needs of cedents through the development of more competitive, innovative, and efficient risk transfer options.
Revenue and Compensation
Our business generates revenues primarily through commissions, compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies for services we provide to them, and fees from customers. Commissions and fees for brokerage services vary depending upon several factors, which may include the amount of premium, the type of insurance or reinsurance coverage provided, the particular services provided to a client, insurer, or reinsurer, and the capacity in which we act. Compensation from insurance and reinsurance companies includes: (1) fees for consulting and analytics services, and (2) fees and commissions for administrative and other services provided to or on behalf of insurers and reinsurers. Fees from clients for advice and consulting services are dependent on the extent and value of the services we provide. Payment terms are consistent with current industry practices.
Fiduciary Funds
We typically hold funds on behalf of clients, including premiums received from clients and claims due to clients that are in transit to and from insurers. Certain funds held on behalf of clients are invested in interest-bearing premium trust accounts and can fluctuate significantly depending on when we collect and remit cash. The principal is segregated and not available for general operating purposes, although we earn interest on these accounts.
Competition
Our business operates in a highly competitive and fragmented environment. We compete with other global insurance brokers and consulting companies, including Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., WTW, and Arthur J Gallagher & Company, as well as numerous other global specialist, regional, and local firms in almost every area of our business. We also compete 
7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


with insurance and reinsurance companies that market and service their insurance products without the assistance of brokers or agents. Additionally, we compete with other businesses that do not fall into the categories above, including large financial institutions and independent consulting firms and consulting organizations affiliated with accounting, information systems, technology, and financial services firms.
Seasonality
Due to buying patterns and delivery of certain products in the markets we serve, revenues recognized tend to be higher in the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year.
Licensing and Regulation
Our business activities are subject to licensing requirements and extensive regulation under the laws of countries in which we operate, including U.S. federal and state laws. See the “Risk Factors” section in Part I, Item 1A of this report for information regarding how actions by regulatory authorities or changes in legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate may have an adverse effect on our business.
Regulatory authorities in the countries and states in the U.S. in which our operating subsidiaries conduct business may require individual or company licenses to act as producers, brokers, agents, third-party administrators, managing general agents, reinsurance intermediaries, or adjusters. Under the laws of most countries and states, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion with respect to granting, renewing, and revoking producers’, brokers’, and agents’ licenses to transact business in the country or state. The operating terms may vary according to the licensing requirements of the particular country or state, which may require, among other things, that a firm operates in the country or state through a local corporation. In a few countries and states, licenses may be issued only to individual residents or locally owned business entities. In such cases, our subsidiaries either have such licenses or have arrangements with residents or business entities licensed to act in the country or state.
Our subsidiaries must comply with laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which they do business. These laws and regulations are enforced by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) in the U.K., by federal and state agencies in the U.S., and by various regulatory agencies and other supervisory authorities in other countries through the granting and revoking of licenses to do business, the licensing of agents, the monitoring of trade practices, policy form approval, limits on commission rates, and mandatory remuneration disclosure requirements.
Insurance authorities in the U.K., U.S., and certain other jurisdictions in which our subsidiaries operate have enacted laws and regulations governing the investment of funds, such as premiums and claims proceeds, held in a fiduciary capacity for others. These laws and regulations generally require the segregation of these fiduciary funds and limit the types of investments that may be made with them.
Investment, securities, and futures licensing authorities also govern certain business activities. For example, in the U.S., we use Aon Securities, LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Aon, and a U.S.-registered broker-dealer and investment advisor, member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and Securities Investor Protection Corporation, for capital management transaction and advisory services and other broker-dealer activities. Similar operations exist in other jurisdictions outside of the U.S.
Further, pension and financial laws and regulations, including oversight and supervision by the FCA in the U.K., the SEC in the U.S., and regulators in other countries govern certain of the retirement-related consulting services provided by Aon and its subsidiaries and affiliates. This includes Aon subsidiaries that provide investment advisory services regulated by various U.S. federal authorities including the SEC and FINRA, as well as authorities on the state level. In addition, other services provided by Aon and its subsidiaries and affiliates, such as trustee services and retirement and employee benefit program administrative services, are subject in various jurisdictions to pension, investment, securities, and insurance laws and regulations, and supervision.
Clientele
Our clients operate in many businesses and industries throughout the world. No one client accounted for more than 2% of our consolidated total revenues in 2020. Additionally, we place insurance with many insurance carriers, none of which individually accounted for more than 10% of the total premiums we placed on behalf of our clients in 2020.
8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Human Capital Management
Aon United, Our Culture and Human Capital Strategy
Our colleagues are the cornerstone of Aon's success. Collaboration and innovation drive our culture, bringing the best of Aon to clients in a holistic and seamless manner. We approach every aspect of our business based on our Aon United Blueprint. Colleagues are trained upon hire under our Aon Impact Model, which supports the belief that businesses thrive when the people they serve flourish. The model sets behavioral expectations, embracing Aon's diverse capabilities, and shared cultural values to ensure colleagues are contributing towards a distinctive, high-performing, and inclusive Aon United culture.
Colleagues
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 50,000 employees and conducted our operations in more than 120 countries and sovereignties. We know that our colleagues’ diverse talents, expertise, and insights contribute to the success of both our firm and our clients, and we seek to attract, grow, and retain the best talent in the industry. Our Colleague Mission is a central part of our Aon United Blueprint and is a key enabler to realizing our aspirations and purpose as a firm. We are committed to building thriving teams with the brightest talent, providing them opportunities to grow, rewarding them for their contributions, and supporting their journey to become the person and professional they want to be. 
Pandemic Response
In 2020, we shifted the vast majority of our colleagues to remote work in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The historic steps we’ve taken to build our Aon Business Services platform were instrumental in our response. Acting early, we began offering tools and services for enabling remote work and avoiding disruption in client service while emphasizing our commitment to colleague health and well-being. Our programs and policies on flexible work, leadership development, learning, telemedicine, childcare, sick leave, social and emotional health, rapidly evolved to meet the new normal and create a “new better” for our colleagues based on where they live and work.
Training and Development
We invest significant resources to develop the talent needed to remain at the forefront of innovation and make Aon an attractive employment destination. To make sure colleagues are on the right track for their career path, colleagues complete a variety of curricula to meet their career stage goals. We provide our colleagues what they need to learn, grow, and become the leaders our clients seek, and our communities need. From self-guided Aon University courses to our Leading Aon United and advanced learning programs, the curriculum is aligned to the Aon United Blueprint and the four expectations of the Aon Impact Model: Create Client Value, Develop Teams, Enable Innovation, and Deliver Business Results. Our use of virtual based learning and development programs during the COVID-19 pandemic has allowed us to continue these efforts despite most of our workforce being virtual during 2020.
Colleague Engagement and Retention
Providing an engaging and rewarding colleague experience is a top priority for our firm and understanding colleagues’ feedback helps us reach that goal. We use a variety of channels to facilitate open, on-going, and direct communication, including open forums with executives, pulse check surveys, and engagement through our Business Resource Groups, which are our independent, voluntary, non-profit associations that provide input, take action, and help identify opportunities for our firm to further its diversity, equity and inclusion commitments. In response to the challenging events of 2020, we updated our engagement survey process by offering more frequent pulse check surveys to understand how colleagues are engaging with their teams, the firm, and clients, so we can gather insights more rapidly and take timely action to address feedback. The pulse check surveys for 2020 have been focused on topics such as manager and leadership support, especially in how we serve clients; colleague well-being, inclusion and diversity; and the Aon United Blueprint. This feedback provides management a better understanding of evolving colleague viewpoints, and ensures we are taking appropriate steps to drive colleague engagement and retention. For discussion of the risks related to the attraction and retention of senior management and other professional personnel, see Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” in this report. 
Rewards
In addition to an inspired purpose and culture, we are proud to offer our colleagues a total rewards program that combines competitive pay, incentive opportunities, and benefits. Our compensation programs, including salary, recognition, cash and equity incentives, connect to our formal performance management and career development approach and serve to reward colleagues for their impact both in what they accomplish for clients, colleagues, and shareholders and how they achieve those results. We maintain a global commitment to colleague well-being and play a key role in supporting colleagues across the physical, emotional, financial, and social spectrum. Our comprehensive benefit programs are competitive for the markets in which we operate and aligned with our values and culture.
9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Inclusion and Diversity
A diverse and inclusive workforce is a business imperative and key to Aon’s long-term success. We emphasize the recruitment, hiring, development, and retention of diverse talent, including women and underrepresented groups. To recruit and hire a diverse community of the best talent, we’ve built partnerships with a wide range of organizations, schools, and universities, and we specifically source talent from diverse communities. Aon is committed to creating a workplace environment that fosters mutual dignity, respect, and equal employment opportunity. We have formal initiatives and policies designed to promote an inclusive workplace free of discrimination and harassment, where colleagues are treated and compensated fairly and equitably. Along with policies and initiatives, we encourage colleague input and action to make sure we create the diverse and inclusive workplace to which we aspire. The commitment starts at the top with our Board of Directors and the standing Inclusion and Diversity Sub-Committee of the Board. Our Global Inclusive Leadership Council is chaired by our Chief Executive Officer and Chief People Officer. Regional Inclusive Leadership Councils and colleague-led Business Resource Groups support execution and provide additional opportunities for colleagues to lead the firm to achieve a truly inclusive environment. We are focused on being a firm that is representative of the communities in which we operate. We believe diversity drives insight, and that by giving all talent a voice, we are encouraging the development of top talent that will produce the best outcomes for clients.
Our Apprenticeship Program
Apprenticeship programs help build a talent pipeline of highly skilled and diverse professionals while providing apprentices with advanced education and work experience. By removing some of the traditional barriers to entry-level employment, Aon can contribute to local workforce development and cultivate talent while improving retention rates in these entry-level roles.
Aon's two-year Apprenticeship Program, which was implemented in the U.S. and U.K. in 2017 and 2012, respectively, serves as an alternate route into a permanent role that normally requires a specific degree or professional experience by providing motivated, high-potential individuals with the required training (on the job and in the classroom), professional skills development, mentorship, and experiential learning to bridge the gap. Over 290 Aon apprentices have been hired since the inception of the program across the U.S. and U.K. Both programs are certified apprenticeship programs, by the Department of Labor in the U.S. and the Department of Education in the U.K. In 2020 we announced our commitment to expand this program to include additional U.S. cities outside of Chicago's metropolitan area to the following six metropolitan areas hiring over 100 apprentices: Houston, Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Washington, DC.
Website Access to Reports and Other Information
Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through our website (http://www.aon.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Also posted on our website are the charters for our Audit, Compliance, Organization and Compensation, Governance/Nominating, Finance, and Inclusion & Diversity Committees, our Governance Guidelines, and our Code of Business Conduct. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we will post on our website any amendment to or waiver of the Code of Business Conduct applicable to any executive officer or director. In addition, we may announce material information to investors and the marketplace using our investor relations website. While not all of the information that we post to such website is of a material nature, some information could be deemed to be material. Accordingly, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information that we share at our investor relations link located at the bottom of the page on www.aon.com. The information provided on our website is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.
