“Aptiv,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Aptiv PLC, a public limited company formed under the laws of Jersey on May 19, 2011 as Delphi Automotive PLC, which completed an initial public offering on November 22, 2011. On December 4, 2017, the Company completed the separation (the “Separation”) of its former Powertrain Systems segment by distributing to Aptiv shareholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of Delphi Technologies PLC (“Delphi Technologies”), a public limited company formed to hold the spun-off business. Following the Separation, the remaining company changed its name to Aptiv PLC and New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) symbol to “APTV.” Aptiv did not retain any equity interest in Delphi Technologies. The completion of the Separation positioned Aptiv as a new mobility provider focused on solving the complex challenges associated with safer, greener and more connected transportation. At the core of our capabilities is the software and vehicle architecture expertise that enables the advanced safety, automated driving, user experience, and connected services that are enabling the future of mobility.
Aptiv is a leading global technology and mobility company primarily serving the automotive sector. We design and manufacture vehicle components and provide electrical, electronic and active safety technology solutions to the global automotive and commercial vehicle markets, creating the software and hardware foundation for vehicle features and functionality. We enable and deliver end-to-end smart mobility solutions, active safety and autonomous driving technologies and provide enhanced user experience and connected services. Our Advanced Safety and User Experience segment is focused on providing the necessary software and advanced computing platforms, and our Signal and Power Solutions segment is focused on providing the requisite networking architecture required to support the integrated systems in today’s complex vehicles. Together, our businesses develop the ‘brain’ and the ‘nervous system’ of increasingly complex vehicles, providing integration of the vehicle into its operating environment.
We are one of the largest vehicle component manufacturers, and our customers include 23 of the 25 largest automotive original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) in the world. We operate 124 major manufacturing facilities and 12 major technical centers utilizing a regional service model that enables us to efficiently and effectively serve our global customers from best cost countries. We have a presence in 44 countries and have approximately 18,200 scientists, engineers and technicians focused on developing market relevant product solutions for our customers.
We are focused on growing and improving the profitability of our businesses, and have implemented a strategy designed to position the Company to deliver industry-leading long-term shareholder returns. This strategy includes disciplined investing in our business to grow and enhance our product offerings, strategically focusing our portfolio in high-technology, high-growth spaces in order to meet consumer preferences and leveraging an industry-leading cost structure to expand our operating margins. In line with the long-term growth in emerging markets, we have been increasing our focus on these markets, particularly in China, where we have a major manufacturing base and strong customer relationships.
Website Access to Company’s Reports
Aptiv’s website address is aptiv.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
Our Company
We believe the automotive industry is being shaped by rapidly increasing consumer demand for new mobility solutions, advanced technologies and vehicle connectivity, as well as increasing government regulation related to vehicle safety, fuel efficiency and emissions control. These industry mega-trends, which we refer to as “Safe,” “Green” and “Connected,” are driving higher growth in products that address these trends than growth in the automotive industry overall. We have organized our business into two diversified segments, which enable us to develop technology solutions and manufacture highly-engineered products that enable our customers to respond to these mega-trends:
•Signal and Power Solutions—This segment provides complete design, manufacture and assembly of the vehicle’s electrical architecture, including engineered component products, connectors, wiring assemblies and harnesses, cable management, electrical centers and hybrid high voltage and safety distribution systems. Our products provide the critical signal distribution and computing power backbone that supports increased vehicle content and electrification, reduced emissions and higher fuel economy.
•Advanced Safety and User Experience—This segment provides critical components, systems integration and advanced software development for vehicle safety, security, comfort and convenience, including sensing and perception systems, electronic control units, multi-domain controllers, vehicle connectivity systems, application 
4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


software and autonomous driving technologies. Our products increase vehicle connectivity, reduce driver distraction and enhance vehicle safety.
Refer to Results of Operations by Segment in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 22. Segment Reporting to the audited consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report for financial information about our business segments.
Our business is diversified across end-markets, regions, customers, vehicle platforms and products. Our customer base includes 23 of the 25 largest automotive OEMs in the world, and in 2020, 30% of our net sales came from the Asia Pacific region, which we have identified as a key market likely to experience substantial long-term growth. Our ten largest platforms in 2020 were with eight different OEMs. In addition, in 2020 our products were found in 19 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in the United States (“U.S.”), in 19 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in Europe and in 14 of the 20 top-selling vehicle models in China.
We have established a worldwide design and manufacturing footprint with a regional service model that enables us to efficiently and effectively serve our global customers from best cost countries. This regional model is structured primarily to service the North American market from Mexico, the South American market from Brazil, the European market from Eastern Europe and North Africa, and the Asia Pacific market from China. Our global scale and regional service model enables us to engineer globally and execute regionally to serve the largest OEMs, which are seeking suppliers that can serve them on a worldwide basis. Our footprint also enables us to adapt to the regional design variations the global OEMs require and serve the emerging market OEMs.
Our Industry
The automotive technology and components industry provides components, systems, subsystems and modules to OEMs for the manufacture of new vehicles, as well as to the aftermarket for use as replacement parts for current production and older vehicles. Overall, we expect long-term growth of global vehicle sales and production in the OEM market. In 2020, the industry experienced decreased global customer sales and production schedules, primarily due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The adverse impacts to Aptiv of the pandemic, which primarily affected us in the first half of 2020, included extended work stoppages and travel restrictions at our facilities and those of our customers and suppliers, decreases in consumer demand and vehicle production schedules, disruptions to our supply chain and other adverse global economic impacts, particularly those resulting from temporary governmental “lock-down” orders for all non-essential activities, initially in the first quarter in China and subsequently in Europe, North America and South America in the second quarter. Adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic from the first half of 2020 were partially offset by increased consumer demand and vehicle production schedules in the second half of 2020, particularly in the fourth quarter. Compared to 2019, vehicle production in 2020 decreased by 22% in Europe, 21% in North America, 3% in China and 31% in South America, our smallest region. Demand for automotive components in the OEM market is generally a function of the number of new vehicles produced in response to consumer demand, which is primarily driven by macro-economic factors such as credit availability, interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment and other trends. Although OEM demand is tied to actual vehicle production, participants in the automotive technology and components industry also have the opportunity to grow through increasing product content per vehicle by further penetrating business with existing customers and in existing markets, gaining new customers and increasing their presence in global markets. We believe that evolving entrants into the global transportation industry such as mobility providers, electric vehicle developers and smart cities will provide additional markets for our advanced technologies. We believe that as a company with a global presence and advanced technology, engineering, manufacturing and customer support capabilities, we are well-positioned to benefit from these opportunities.
We believe that continuously increasing societal demands have created the three “mega-trends” that serve as the basis for the next wave of market-driven automotive technology advancement. We aim to continue developing leading edge technology focused on addressing these mega-trends, and apply that technology toward products with sustainable margins that enable our customers, both OEMs and others, to produce distinctive market-leading products. We have identified a core portfolio of products that draw on our technical strengths and align with these mega-trends where we believe we can provide differentiation to our customers.
Safe. The first mega-trend, “Safe,” represents technologies aimed not just at protecting vehicle occupants when a crash occurs, but those that actually proactively reduce the risk of a crash occurring. OEMs continue to focus on improving occupant and pedestrian safety in order to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements in various markets. As a result, suppliers are focused on developing technologies aimed at protecting vehicle occupants when a crash occurs, as well as advanced driver assistance systems that reduce driver distractions and automated safety features that proactively mitigate the risk of a crash occurring. Examples of new and alternative technologies that incorporate sophisticated detection and advanced software for collision avoidance include lane departure warning systems, adaptive cruise control, gesture control and automatic braking.
5
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


Green. The second mega-trend, “Green,” represents technologies designed to help reduce emissions, increase fuel economy and minimize the environmental impact of vehicles. Green is a key mega-trend today because of the convergence of several issues: climate change, volatility in oil prices, an increasing number of vehicles in use worldwide and recent and pending regulation outside the U.S. regarding fuel economy and greenhouse gas emissions. OEMs continue to focus on improving fuel efficiency and reducing emissions in order to meet increasingly stringent regulatory requirements in various markets. On a worldwide basis, the relevant authorities in the European Union, the United Kingdom, China, India, Japan, Brazil, South Korea and Argentina have already instituted regulations requiring reductions in emissions and/or increased fuel economy, with the U.S. expected to introduce new regulations in the near future. In many cases, other authorities have initiated legislation or regulation that would further tighten the standards through 2021 and beyond. Based on the current regulatory environment, we believe that OEMs, including those in the U.S. and China, will be subject to requirements for even greater reductions in carbon dioxide (“CO2”) emissions over the next ten years. These standards will require meaningful innovation as OEMs and suppliers are challenged to find ways to improve engine management, electrical power consumption, vehicle weight and integration of alternative technologies (e.g., electric/hybrid propulsion). As a result, suppliers are developing innovations that result in significant improvements in fuel economy, emissions and performance from gasoline and diesel internal combustion engines. At the same time, suppliers are also developing and marketing new and alternative technologies that support hybrid vehicles, electric vehicles and fuel cell products to improve fuel economy and emissions. We are developing key enabling technologies in the areas of vehicle charging and vehicle power distribution and control that are essential to the introduction of our customers’ electrified vehicle platforms. We are also enabling the trend towards vehicle electrification with high voltage electrification solutions that reduce CO2 emissions and increase fuel economy, making the world greener.
Connected. The third mega-trend, “Connected,” represents technologies designed to seamlessly integrate today’s highly complex vehicles into the electronic operating environment, and provide drivers with connectivity to the global information network. The technology content of vehicles continues to increase as consumers demand greater safety, personalization, infotainment, productivity and convenience while driving, which in turn leads to increasing demand for electrical architecture as a foundation for this content. Also with increased smart device usage in vehicles, driver distractions can be dramatically increased, which in turn results in greater risk of accidents. We are pioneering vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) and vehicle-to-infrastructure (V2I) communication technologies which enable vehicles to detect and signal danger, reducing vehicle collisions and improving driver safety, while also maintaining connectivity to an increasing number of devices inside and outside of vehicles. We also utilize advanced connectivity solutions such as over-the-air (OTA) technology that enable vehicles to receive software updates remotely and collect market-relevant data from connected vehicles.
We expect these mega-trends to continue to create growth and opportunity for us. We believe we are well-positioned to provide solutions and products to OEMs to expand the electronic and technological content of their vehicles. We also believe electronics integration, which generally refers to products and systems that combine integrated circuits, software algorithms, sensor technologies and mechanical components within the vehicle will allow OEMs to achieve substantial reductions in weight and mechanical complexity, resulting in easier assembly, enhanced fuel economy, improved emissions control and better vehicle performance.
Convergence of Safe, Green and Connected Solutions in New Mobility and Autonomous Driving
The combination of advanced technologies being developed within these mega-trends is also contributing to increasing industry development of autonomous driving technologies, leading to a fully automated driving experience. We expect automated driving technologies will provide strong societal benefit as well as the opportunity for long-term growth for our product offerings in this space, including new potential customers such as mobility providers and smart cities that require solutions to increasing urban mobility challenges. Societal benefits of increased vehicle automation include enhanced safety (resulting from collision avoidance and improved vehicle control), environmental improvements (a reduction in CO2 emissions resulting from optimized driving behavior), labor cost savings and improved productivity (as a result of alternate uses for drive time). Growth opportunities in this space result from increased content, additional computing power and software requirements, enhanced connectivity systems and increased electrification and interconnects. We believe the complexity of these systems will also require ongoing software support services, as these vehicle systems will be continuously upgraded with new features and performance enhancements.
We are continuing to invest in the automated driving space, and have continued to develop market-leading automated driving platform solutions such as automated driving software, key active safety sensing technologies and our multi-domain controller, which fuses information from sensing systems as well as mapping and navigation data to make driving decisions. We believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will result in sustainable future growth in this space, and have partnered with leaders in their respective fields to advance the pace of development and commercialization of these emerging technologies.
6
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


In an effort to further our leadership position in the automated driving space, in March 2020 we completed the transaction with Hyundai Motor Group (“Hyundai”) to form a new joint venture focused on the design, development and commercialization of autonomous driving technologies. The joint venture operates globally under the Motional brand name, and brings together one of the industry’s most innovative vehicle technology providers with one of the world’s largest OEMs. We expect this partnership to accelerate the path towards the development of production-ready autonomous driving systems for commercialization in the new mobility space.
We believe that substantial strategic value will be created from our partnership with Hyundai through our commitment to a shared mission of making driverless vehicles a safe, reliable, and accessible reality. Furthermore, we anticipate Motional’s presence in both North America and Asia, along with the global presence of both Aptiv and Hyundai, to generate economies of scale to support the development of a complete autonomous driving platform, as well as to facilitate mobility infrastructure advancements.
The Motional joint venture began testing fully driverless systems in 2020 and anticipates it will have a production-ready autonomous driving platform available for robotaxi providers, fleet operators and automotive manufacturers to test at prototype scale in 2022, with higher volumes available for deployment in 2023. In addition, Motional is involved in collaborative arrangements with mobility providers and with smart cities such as Boston and Singapore as solutions are developed for the evolving nature of the mobility industry. As a result of our substantial investments and strategic partnerships, we believe we are well-aligned with industry technology trends that will result in sustainable future growth in these evolving areas.
To guide our product strategies and investments in technology with a focus on developing advanced technologies to drive growth within the Safe, Green and Connected mega-trends, we utilize and benefit from our Technology Advisory Council, a panel of prominent global technology thought leaders.
Standardization of Sourcing by OEMs
Many OEMs have adopted global vehicle platforms to increase standardization, reduce per unit cost and increase capital efficiency and profitability. As a result, OEMs select suppliers that have the capability to manufacture products on a worldwide basis as well as the flexibility to adapt to regional variations. Suppliers with global scale and strong design, engineering and manufacturing capabilities, are best positioned to benefit from this trend. OEMs are also increasingly looking to their suppliers to simplify vehicle design and assembly processes to reduce costs. As a result, suppliers that sell vehicle components directly to manufacturers (Tier I suppliers) have assumed many of the design, engineering, research and development and assembly functions traditionally performed by vehicle manufacturers. Suppliers that can provide fully-engineered solutions, systems and pre-assembled combinations of component parts are positioned to leverage the trend toward system sourcing.
Shorter Product Development Cycles
As a result of government regulations and customer preferences, OEMs are requiring suppliers to respond faster with new designs and product innovations. While these trends are more prevalent in mature markets, the emerging markets are advancing rapidly towards the regulatory standards and consumer preferences of the more mature markets. Suppliers with strong technologies, robust global engineering and development capabilities will be best positioned to meet OEM demands for rapid innovation.
Products
Our organizational structure and management reporting support the management of these core product lines:
Signal and Power Solutions. This segment provides complete design, manufacture and assembly of the vehicle’s electrical architecture, including connectors, wiring assemblies and harnesses, cable management, electrical centers and hybrid high voltage and safety distribution systems. Our products provide the critical signal distribution and computing power backbone that supports increased vehicle content and electrification, reduced emissions and higher fuel economy.
•High quality connectors are engineered primarily for use in the automotive and related markets, but also have applications in the aerospace, military and telematics sectors.
•Electrical centers provide centralized electrical power and signal distribution and all of the associated circuit protection and switching devices, thereby optimizing the overall vehicle electrical system.
•Distribution systems, including hybrid high voltage systems, are integrated into one optimized vehicle electrical system that can utilize smaller cable and gauge sizes and ultra-thin wall insulation (which product line makes up approximately 42%, 42% and 44% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively).
Advanced Safety and User Experience. This segment provides critical components, systems integration and advanced software development for vehicle safety, security, comfort and convenience, including sensing and perception systems, 
7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


electronic control units, multi-domain controllers, vehicle connectivity systems, application software and autonomous driving technologies. Our products increase vehicle connectivity, reduce driver distraction and enhance vehicle safety.
•Advanced safety primarily consists of solutions that enable active and passive safety features and vehicle automation, as well as vision, radar, LiDAR and other sensing technologies.
•The user experience portfolio primarily enables in-cabin solutions around infotainment, driver interface and interior sensing solutions.
•Connectivity and security products primarily consists of solutions that provide body control, security and unlock vehicle data.
Competition
Although the overall number of our top competitors has decreased due to ongoing industry consolidation, the automotive technology and components industry remains extremely competitive. Furthermore, the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we compete has attracted, and may continue to attract, new entrants, particularly in best cost countries such as China and in areas of evolving vehicle technologies such as automated driving and mobility solutions, which has attracted competitors from outside the traditional automotive industry. OEMs rigorously evaluate suppliers on the basis of product quality, price, reliability and timeliness of delivery, product design capability, technical expertise and development capability, new product innovation, financial viability, application of lean principles, operational flexibility, customer service and overall management. In addition, our customers generally require that we demonstrate improved efficiencies, through cost reductions and/or price improvement, on a year-over-year basis.
Our competitors in each of our operating segments are as follows:
      
Segment Competitors 
Signal and Power Solutions •  Amphenol Corporation 
•  Draexlmaier Automotive 
•  Lear Corporation 
•  Leoni AG 
•  Molex Inc. (a subsidiary of Koch Industries, Inc.) 
•  Sumitomo Corporation 
•  TE Connectivity, Ltd. 
•  Yazaki Corporation 
  
Advanced Safety and User Experience •  Bosch Group 
•  Continental AG 
•  Denso Corporation 
•  Harman International (a subsidiary of Samsung Electronics) 
•  Hyundai Mobis 
•  Magna International 
•  Panasonic Corporation 
•  Valeo 
•  Veoneer, Inc. 
•  Visteon Corporation 
•  ZF Friedrichshafen AG 

8
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


Customers
We sell our products and services to the major global OEMs in every region of the world. The following table provides the percentage of net sales to our largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2020:
      
Customer Percentage of Net Sales 
Volkswagen Group (“VW”) 10% 
General Motors Company (“GM”) 9% 
Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (“FCA”) (1) 8% 
Ford Motor Company 7% 
SAIC General Motors Corporation Limited 5% 
Geely Automobile Holdings Limited 5% 
PSA Peugeot Citroën (“PSA”) (1) 4% 
Daimler AG 4% 
Toyota Motor Corporation 2% 
Tata Motors Limited 2% 
Tesla Inc. 2% 
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (“BMW”) 2% 
  

(1)On January 16, 2021, FCA and PSA executed a merger agreement to form a new, combined company (“Stellantis”). On a combined basis, the formerly separate companies accounted for 12% of Aptiv’s net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Supply Relationships with Our Customers
We typically supply products to our OEM customers through purchase orders, which are generally governed by general terms and conditions established by each OEM. Although the terms and conditions vary from customer to customer, they typically contemplate a relationship under which our customers place orders for their requirements of specific components supplied for particular vehicles but are not required to purchase any minimum amount of products from us. These relationships typically extend over the life of the related vehicle. Prices are negotiated with respect to each business award, which may be subject to adjustments under certain circumstances, such as commodity or foreign exchange escalation/de-escalation clauses or for cost reductions achieved by us. The terms and conditions typically provide that we are subject to a warranty on the products supplied; in most cases, the duration of such warranty is coterminous with the warranty offered by the OEM to the end-user of the vehicle. We may also be obligated to share in all or a part of recall costs if the OEM recalls its vehicles for defects attributable to our products.
Individual purchase orders are terminable for cause or non-performance and, in most cases, upon our insolvency and certain change of control events. In addition, many of our OEM customers have the option to terminate for convenience on certain programs, which permits our customers to impose pressure on pricing during the life of the vehicle program, and issue purchase contracts for less than the duration of the vehicle program, which potentially reduces our profit margins and increases the risk of our losing future sales under those purchase contracts. Additionally, one of our largest customers, GM, expressly reserves a right to terminate for competitiveness on certain of our long-term supply contracts. We manufacture and ship based on customer release schedules, normally provided on a weekly basis, which can vary due to cyclical automobile production or dealer inventory levels.
Although customer programs typically extend to future periods, and although there is an expectation that we will supply certain levels of OEM production during such future periods, customer agreements including applicable terms and conditions do not necessarily constitute firm orders. Firm orders are generally limited to specific and authorized customer purchase order releases placed with our manufacturing and distribution centers for actual production and order fulfillment. Firm orders are typically fulfilled as promptly as possible from the conversion of available raw materials, sub-components and work-in-process inventory for OEM orders and from current on-hand finished goods inventory for aftermarket orders. The dollar amount of such purchase order releases on hand and not processed at any point in time is not believed to be significant based upon the time frame involved.
Materials
We procure our raw materials from a variety of suppliers around the world. Generally, we seek to obtain materials in the region in which our products are manufactured in order to minimize transportation and other costs. The most significant raw materials we use to manufacture our products include copper and resins. As of December 31, 2020, we have not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials and normally do not carry inventories of such raw materials in excess of those reasonably required to meet our production and shipping schedules.
9
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


Commodity cost volatility, most notably related to copper, petroleum-based resin products and fuel, is a challenge for us and our industry. We are continually seeking to manage these and other material-related cost pressures using a combination of strategies, including working with our suppliers to mitigate costs, seeking alternative product designs and material specifications, combining our purchase requirements with our customers and/or suppliers, changing suppliers, hedging of certain commodities and other means. In the case of copper, which primarily affects our Signal and Power Solutions segment, contract clauses have enabled us to pass on some of the price increases to our customers and thereby partially offset the impact of increased commodity costs on operating income for the related products. However, other than in the case of copper, our overall success in passing commodity cost increases on to our customers has been limited. We will continue our efforts to pass market-driven commodity cost increases to our customers in an effort to mitigate all or some of the adverse earnings impacts, including by seeking to renegotiate terms as contracts with our customers expire.
Seasonality
Our business is moderately seasonal, as our primary North American customers historically reduce production during the month of July and halt operations for approximately one week in December. Our European customers generally reduce production during the months of July and August and for one week in December. Shut-down periods in the rest of the world generally vary by country. In addition, automotive production is traditionally reduced in the months of July, August and September due to the launch of component production for new vehicle models. Accordingly, our results reflect this seasonality.
Human Capital Resources
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 151,000 people; 24,000 salaried employees and 127,000 hourly employees. In addition, we maintain an alternative workforce of 33,000 contract and temporary workers. Certain of our employees are represented worldwide by numerous unions and works councils, including the International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers - Communications Workers of America and the Confederacion De Trabajadores Mexicanos.
Retention and Talent Development
Our employees are united across the globe in pursuit of our mission of developing safer, greener and more connected solutions enabling the future of mobility. The retention of highly qualified and diverse talent is critical to this mission, Aptiv’s continued growth and effective succession planning. As part of our focus on the retention of employees, we believe in being strategic and intentional in our efforts to provide talented and diverse individuals an opportunity to leverage their demonstrated performance and to gain sustainable leadership qualities aligned to our mission, culture and values. We have developed robust succession plans for our top leadership. These plans align with our development initiatives, such as advancing diversity candidates in leadership and in engineering and manufacturing functions. Furthermore, we recognize the importance of mentorship and the part it plays in personal and professional growth.
Aptiv is committed to talent development and growing the next generation of leaders. We have established a process of recurring talent reviews, focused on development and execution of specific development action plans. In addition, we offer several development programs targeting various career development needs. Our Leadership Development Program provides a holistic approach that develops business acumen and personal competencies, as well as the opportunity to learn and interact with peers from around the world. Our Leadership Foundations program is designed to help newly hired or promoted managers understand the Aptiv way of leading people. We also leverage Aptiv Academy, our online learning management system, across the enterprise using in-person, online and virtual reality learning opportunities.
Culture
Aptiv continually evaluates the culture, values and behaviors we believe are core to enabling a thriving environment for our employees. To establish expectations and clarity regarding the culture we are shaping, as well as the behaviors we measure in our talent evaluation system, several thousand of our top leaders have participated in global culture workshops led by our chief executive officer (“CEO”) and chief human resources officer (“CHRO”).
Diversity and Inclusion
At Aptiv, we value each individual’s perspective and foster a strong culture of respect and inclusive collaboration. Leveraging our employees’ diverse backgrounds and experiences allows us to make better decisions and supports stronger operating performance. Our CEO and CHRO review succession and talent development plans, as well as diversity and inclusion, with our Board of Directors annually. Aptiv also participates in, and sponsors, numerous outreach programs around the world, which seek to promote and recruit women and diversity candidates into science, technology, engineering and math fields. Aptiv is committed to continuing to increase its level of diversity in middle management, senior leadership and technology roles over the coming years.
10
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


Health and Safety
Furthermore, we prioritize the health and safety of all our employees. We routinely assess occupational health and safety risks, including internal audits for all manufacturing sites, assessing, among other things, lost workday case rates, safety incident rates, safety habits training and number of training hours per employee. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we also implemented additional safety protocols designed to make all of Aptiv’s sites safer, which included extensive cleaning of our facilities, enhanced communications about safety protocols, building capacity limits, daily health screenings for on-site employees and mandatory mask use when indoors.
Environmental Compliance
We are subject to the requirements of U.S. federal, state and local, and non-U.S., environmental and safety and health laws and regulations. These include laws regulating air emissions, water discharge, hazardous materials and waste management. We have an environmental management structure designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements globally. Although it is our intent to comply with all such requirements and regulations, we cannot provide assurance that we are at all times in compliance. Environmental requirements are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Accordingly, we cannot ensure that environmental requirements will not change or become more stringent over time or that our eventual environmental costs and liabilities will not be material.
Certain environmental laws assess liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous substances. In addition to clean-up actions brought by U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. agencies, plaintiffs could raise personal injury or other private claims due to the presence of hazardous substances on or from a property. At this time, we are involved in various stages of investigation and cleanup related to environmental remediation matters at certain of our present and former facilities. In addition, there may be soil or groundwater contamination at several of our properties resulting from historical, ongoing or nearby activities.
At December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the undiscounted reserve for environmental investigation and remediation was approximately $4 million, $4 million and $4 million, respectively. We cannot ensure that our eventual environmental remediation costs and liabilities will not exceed the amount of our current reserves. In the event that such liabilities were to significantly exceed the amounts recorded, our results of operations could be materially affected.
11

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


SUPPLEMENTARY ITEM. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
The name, age (as of February 1, 2021), current positions and description of business experience of each of our executive officers are listed below. Our executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified or until the officer’s resignation or removal. Positions noted below reflect current service to Aptiv PLC and prior service to Delphi Automotive PLC and Delphi Automotive LLP.
Kevin P. Clark, 58, is president and chief executive officer (CEO) of Aptiv and is a member of the company’s board of directors. Mr. Clark was named president and CEO and became a member of the board in March 2015. Previously, Mr. Clark was chief operating officer (COO) from October 2014 to March 2015. Prior to the COO position, Mr. Clark was chief financial officer and executive vice president from February 2013. He was appointed vice president and chief financial officer in July 2010. Previously, Mr. Clark was a founding partner of Liberty Lane Partners, LLC, a private-equity investment firm focused on building and improving middle-market companies. Prior to Liberty Lane Partners, Mr. Clark served as the chief financial officer of Fisher-Scientific International Inc., a manufacturer, distributor and service provider to the global healthcare market. Mr. Clark served as Fisher-Scientific’s chief financial officer from the company’s initial public offering in 2001 through the completion of its merger with Thermo Electron Corporation in 2006. Prior to becoming chief financial officer, Mr. Clark served as Fisher-Scientific’s corporate controller and treasurer.
Joseph R. Massaro, 51, is Aptiv’s chief financial officer and senior vice president, business operations. Mr. Massaro joined the Company in October 2013 as vice president, Internal Audit, and in September 2014 was appointed to the position of vice president, corporate controller. In March 2016, he was named senior vice president and chief financial officer and in September 2020, also assumed the role of senior vice president, business operations. Previously, Mr. Massaro was a managing director at Liberty Lane Partners from 2008 to 2010. He also served as chief financial officer of inVentiv Health Inc. from 2010 to 2013, a Liberty Lane portfolio company. Prior to Liberty Lane, he served in a variety of finance and operational roles at Thermo Fisher Scientific from 2002 to 2007, including senior vice president of Global Business Services where his responsibilities included the global sourcing and information technology functions. Prior to the merger with Thermo Electron, he also served as vice president and corporate controller of Fisher Scientific and held several other senior finance positions.
Allan J. Brazier, 54, is vice president and chief accounting officer of Aptiv, a position he has held since February 2011. Mr. Brazier joined the Company in June 2005 as senior manager of technical accounting and reporting, and prior to his current role served as assistant controller of technical accounting and reporting. Prior to joining Aptiv, Mr. Brazier was employed for seventeen years in financial roles of increasing responsibility at various companies. Mr. Brazier is a Certified Public Accountant and began his career with the international public accounting firm of KPMG.
Glen De Vos, 60, is senior vice president and chief technology officer of Aptiv, effective March 2017, and has responsibility for Aptiv’s innovation and global technologies. From November 2017 to October 2019, he was also president of Aptiv’s Mobility and Services Group. Mr. De Vos was most recently vice president of Software and Services for Aptiv’s Advanced Safety and User Experience segment, located at the Company’s Silicon Valley Lab in Mountain View, California from 2016 to 2017. He began his Aptiv career with Advanced Safety and User Experience in 1992, and following several progressive engineering and managerial roles in infotainment and user experience, was named vice president, Global Engineering for Advanced Safety and User Experience in 2012.
David Paja, 51, is senior vice president of Aptiv and president of Advanced Safety and User Experience, effective February 2017. He was most recently president of Honeywell Security & Fire, a global leader in electronic detection and prevention technologies for residential, commercial, and industrial applications from 2015 to 2017. From 2012 to 2014, he served Honeywell’s Transportation Systems segment as vice president and general manager for China and India. Mr. Paja was instrumental in enhancing Honeywell’s Internet of Things capabilities with advanced software and connectivity technologies, serving millions of connected homes and buildings worldwide. He began his Honeywell career in 2003 and held several leadership positions of increasing responsibility. Before joining Honeywell, Mr. Paja held several positions at Valeo Automotive.
William Presley, 51, is senior vice president of Aptiv and president of Signal and Power Solutions, effective September 2020. Mr. Presley joined Aptiv in January 2019 as president of the Electrical Distribution Systems business unit. Prior to joining Aptiv, he was at Lear Corporation. Mr. Presley most recently served as Lear’s vice president of the Wire Harness and Component business unit from 2018 to 2019, vice president of the Component business unit in 2017 and vice president, Global Electrical Engineering from 2013 to 2017. He began his Lear career in 2008 and held several leadership positions of increasing responsibility. Before joining Lear, Mr. Presley held several positions at Chrysler Corporation. Mr. Presley also served in both the U.S. Army and the Michigan Army National Guard for a combined total of 13 years as a Field Artillery Officer.
David M. Sherbin, 61, is senior vice president, general counsel, chief compliance officer and secretary of Aptiv. He was named to his current position in October 2009 and previously was vice president, general counsel from October 2005 to October 2009. He was appointed chief compliance officer in January 2006. Prior to joining Aptiv, Mr. Sherbin was vice president, general counsel and secretary for PulteGroup, Inc., a national homebuilder, from January 2005 through September 
12
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Table of Contents


2005. Mr. Sherbin joined Federal-Mogul Corporation in 1997 and was named senior vice president, general counsel, secretary and chief compliance officer in 2003.
Mariya Trickett, 38, is senior vice president and chief human resources officer of Aptiv, effective September 2018. She joined Aptiv from Dana Incorporated, where she was most recently senior vice president of human resources from 2016 to 2018. In addition, she was a managing director of Dana Europe AG from 2013 to 2018. Prior to assuming the senior vice president of human resources position, she served as senior director of human resources for Dana’s global Off-Highway Driveline Technologies business, while also supporting the Aftermarket Group and all of Dana’s European operations from 2015 to 2016. From 2013 to 2015, Ms. Trickett worked as director of H.R. for Off-Highway Driveline Technologies, and senior H.R. manager for Europe from 2011 to 2013. She began her Dana career in 2007, and held roles supporting Dana’s sales and purchasing organizations, and worked in global compensation and international mobility.
