Overview
Biogen is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and delivering worldwide innovative therapies for people living with serious neurological and neurodegenerative diseases as well as related therapeutic adjacencies. Our core growth areas include multiple sclerosis (MS) and neuroimmunology; Alzheimer’s disease and dementia; neuromuscular disorders, including spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS); movement disorders, including Parkinson's disease; ophthalmology; and neuropsychiatry. We are also focused on discovering, developing and delivering worldwide innovative therapies in our emerging growth areas of immunology; acute neurology; and neuropathic pain. In addition, we commercialize biosimilars of advanced biologics. We support our drug discovery and development efforts through the commitment of significant resources to discovery, research and development programs and business development opportunities.
biib-20201231_g2.jpg
Our marketed products include TECFIDERA, VUMERITY, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY, TYSABRI and FAMPYRA for the treatment of MS; SPINRAZA for the treatment of SMA; and FUMADERM for the treatment of severe plaque psoriasis. We have certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and other conditions; RITUXAN HYCELA for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and CLL; GAZYVA for the treatment of CLL and follicular lymphoma; OCREVUS for the treatment of primary progressive MS (PPMS) and relapsing MS (RMS); and other potential anti-CD20 therapies pursuant to our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, Inc. (Genentech), a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, please read Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
For over two decades we have led in the research and development of new therapies to treat MS, resulting in our leading portfolio of MS treatments. Now our research is focused on developing next generation treatments for MS. We introduced the first approved treatment for SMA and are continuing to pursue research and development for potential advancements in the treatment of SMA. We are also applying our scientific expertise to solve some of the most challenging and complex diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, ALS, Parkinson's disease, choroideremia (CHM), major depressive disorder, postpartum depression, X-linked retinitis pigmentosa (XLRP), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), cutaneous lupus erythematosus (CLE), cognitive impairment associated with schizophrenia (CIAS), stroke and neuropathic pain.
Our innovative drug development and commercialization activities are complemented by our biosimilar business that expands access to medicines and reduces the cost burden for healthcare systems. Through our agreements with Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd. (Samsung Bioepis), our joint venture with Samsung BioLogics Co., Ltd. (Samsung BioLogics), we market and sell BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, and FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE, in certain countries in Europe and have an option to acquire exclusive rights to commercialize these products in China. Additionally, we have exclusive rights to commercialize two potential ophthalmology biosimilar products, SB11, a proposed ranibizumab biosimilar referencing LUCENTIS, and SB15, a proposed aflibercept biosimilar referencing EYLEA, in major markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
1
Table of Contents
Key Business Developments
The following is a summary of key developments affecting our business since the beginning of 2020.
For additional information on our acquisitions, collaborative and other relationships discussed below, please read Note 2, Acquisitions, Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, and Note 19, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Acquisitions, Collaborative and Other Relationships
BIIB118 Acquisition
In March 2020 we acquired BIIB118 (CK1 inhibitor), a novel CNS-penetrant small molecule inhibitor of casein kinase 1, for the potential treatment of patients with behavioral and neurological symptoms across various psychiatric and neurological diseases from Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer). We are developing BIIB118 for the potential treatment of irregular sleep wake rhythm disorder (ISWRD) in Parkinson’s disease and plan to develop BIIB118 for the potential treatment of sundowning in Alzheimer's disease.
Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc.
In April 2020 we closed a collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc. (Sangamo) to develop and commercialize ST-501 for tauopathies, including Alzheimer’s disease; ST-502 for synucleinopathies, including, Parkinson’s disease; a third neuromuscular disease target; and up to nine additional neurological disease targets to be identified and selected within a five-year period. The companies are leveraging Sangamo's proprietary zinc finger protein technology delivered via adeno-associated virus to modulate the expression of key genes involved in neurological diseases. In connection with the closing of this transaction, we purchased $225.0 million of Sangamo common stock, or approximately 24 million shares at approximately $9.21 per share.
Denali Therapeutics Inc.
In October 2020 we closed a collaboration and license agreement with Denali Therapeutics Inc. (Denali) to co-develop and co-commercialize Denali’s small molecule inhibitors of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) for Parkinson’s disease. In addition to the LRRK2 program, we also have an exclusive option to license two preclinical programs from Denali’s Transport Vehicle platform, including its Antibody Transport Vehicle (ATV): ATV enabled anti-amyloid beta (Abeta) program and a second program utilizing its Transport Vehicle technology. Further, we have a right of first negotiation on two additional Transport Vehicle-enabled therapeutics, should Denali decide to seek a collaboration for such programs. As part of this collaboration we purchased approximately $465.0 million of Denali common stock in September 2020, or approximately 13 million shares at approximately $34.94 per share.
Sage Therapeutics, Inc.
In December 2020 we closed a global collaboration and license agreement with Sage Therapeutics, Inc. (Sage) to jointly develop and commercialize zuranolone (SAGE-217) for the potential treatment of major depressive disorder, postpartum depression and other psychiatric disorders and SAGE-324 for the potential treatment of essential tremor and other neurological disorders. In connection with the closing of this transaction we purchased $650.0 million of Sage common stock, or approximately 6.2 million shares at approximately $104.14 per share.
Other Key Developments
Aducanumab (Aβ mAb)
In July 2020 we completed the submission of a Biologics License Application (BLA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the approval of aducanumab, an anti-amyloid beta antibody candidate for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease that we are developing in collaboration with Eisai Co., Ltd. (Eisai). In August 2020 the FDA accepted the BLA and granted Priority Review with a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) action date on March 7, 2021.
In November 2020 the FDA held a virtual meeting of the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee (the Advisory Committee) to review data supporting the BLA for aducanumab and to vote on questions presented at the meeting. A majority of the Advisory Committee members voted against each of the questions presented at the meeting.
In January 2021 the FDA extended the review period for the BLA for aducanumab by three months. The updated PDUFA action date is June 7, 2021. As part of the ongoing review, we submitted a response to an information request by the FDA, including additional analyses and clinical data, which the FDA considered a Major Amendment to the application that will require additional time for review.
2
Table of Contents
In October 2020 the European Medicines Agency (EMA) accepted for review the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for aducanumab.
In December 2020 the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare accepted for review the Japanese New Drug Application for aducanumab.
SB11 (referencing LUCENTIS)
In October 2020 the EMA accepted for review the MAA for SB11 and in November 2020 the FDA accepted the BLA for SB11. We have exclusive rights to commercialize SB11 in major markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia, pursuant to our 2019 agreement with Samsung Bioepis.
2020 Share Repurchase Programs
In October 2020 our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $5.0 billion of our common stock (2020 Share Repurchase Program). Our 2020 Share Repurchase Program does not have an expiration date. All share repurchases under our 2020 Share Repurchase Program will be retired.
Healthy Climate, Healthy Lives
In September 2020 we announced Healthy Climate, Healthy Lives, a $250.0 million, 20-year initiative to eliminate our fossil fuels across our operations and collaborate with renowned institutions with the aim to improve health, especially for the world's most vulnerable populations.
Management Changes
In July 2020 we announced the appointment of Michael R. McDonnell as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
For additional information on our executive officers, please read the subsection entitled "Information about our Executive Officers" included in this report.
Product and Pipeline Developments
Core Growth Areas
Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology
TYSABRI (natalizumab)
•In March 2020 we made a regulatory submission to the EMA for a subcutaneous (SC) formulation of TYSABRI (natalizumab). In June 2020 we submitted a Supplemental Biologics License Application for a SC formulation of natalizumab to the FDA. The filings are supported by data from the DELIVER and REFINE studies, which demonstrated that natalizumab 300 mg SC every 4 weeks (Q4W) was comparable to standard 300 mg intravenous Q4W dosing with respect to clinical and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) efficacy, pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics, immunogenicity and safety.
•In May 2020, through the 2020 American Academy of Neurology (AAN) Science Highlights virtual platform, an analysis of TYSABRI contributed to data demonstrating the reduced risk of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) through extended interval dosing (approximately every six weeks) as compared to the currently approved Q4W dosing.
•In September 2020, at MSVirtual2020, the eighth joint meeting of the Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis and the European Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ACTRIMS-ECTRIMS), we presented new real-world MRI data suggesting that the effectiveness of extended interval dosing of TYSABRI is similar to the approved Q4W dosing.
VUMERITY (diroximel fumarate; DRF)
•In May 2020, through the 2020 AAN Science Highlights virtual platform, we announced new data that support VUMERITY as an important oral treatment option in RMS.
•In September 2020, at MSVirtual2020, the eighth joint meeting of ACTRIMS-ECTRIMS, we presented new data further defining the effectiveness and safety profile of VUMERITY.
•In November 2020 we submitted a MAA for VUMERITY to the EMA.
3
Table of Contents
PLEGRIDY (peginterferon beta-1a)
•In December 2020 the European Commission (EC) approved a new intramuscular (IM) injection route of administration for PLEGRIDY for the treatment of relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS).
•In January 2021 the FDA approved a new IM injection route of administration for PLEGRIDY for the treatment of RRMS.
Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia
Aducanumab (Aβ mAb)
•In March 2020 the first patient was dosed in the aducanumab re-dosing study, EMBARK, which is a global re-dosing clinical study designed to evaluate aducanumab in eligible Alzheimer’s disease patients who were actively enrolled in aducanumab studies (PRIME, EVOLVE, EMERGE and ENGAGE) in March 2019.
•In November 2020 we presented on the study design of the ongoing EMBARK re-dosing study of aducanumab at the 2020 Clinical Trials on Alzheimer's Disease digital conference.
BAN2401 (lecanemab)
•In September 2020 the first patient was dosed in the Phase 3 AHEAD 3-45 clinical study of BAN2401, an anti-amyloid beta antibody, in individuals with preclinical Alzheimer’s disease who have intermediate or elevated levels of amyloid in their brains. We are collaborating with Eisai on the development of BAN2401.
Neuromuscular Disorders
SPINRAZA (nusinersen)
•In March 2020 the first patient was dosed in the global DEVOTE study, which is evaluating the safety, tolerability and potential for even greater efficacy of SPINRAZA when administered at a higher dose than currently approved for the treatment of SMA.
•In March 2020 a study on the efficacy and safety of SPINRAZA in teen and adult patients was published in Lancet Neurology, showing clinically meaningful improvements in motor function in a real-world cohort. This study included 139 teens and adults with later-onset SMA (age 16-65 years) from 10 neuromuscular treatment centers in Germany. Patients were followed for 6-14 months and experienced statistically significant increases in HFMSE (Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale Expanded) scores compared to baseline at 6 months, 10 months and 14 months. Clinically meaningful improvements (≥3 points increase) in HFMSE scores were seen in 28% of patients at 6 months, 35% of patients at 10 months and 40% of patients at 14 months. The most frequent adverse events were headache, back pain and nausea.
•In June 2020 we announced new results from NURTURE, the longest study of presymptomatic patients with SMA. In infants genetically diagnosed with SMA, new data demonstrated that early and sustained treatment with SPINRAZA for up to 4.8 years enabled unprecedented survival. Patients continued to maintain and make progressive gains in motor function compared to the natural course of the disease. These results were presented at the virtual Cure SMA Research & Clinical Care Meeting.
•In May 2020, through the 2020 AAN Science Highlights virtual platform, we announced additional data from the SPINRAZA clinical development program that further demonstrated the sustained efficacy and longer-term safety of SPINRAZA in a broad range of patients with SMA. The SHINE open-label extension study (NCT02594124) has enrolled 292 patients (infants through teenagers) from 5 previous SPINRAZA clinical studies, including ENDEAR. New findings from the SHINE study show that treatment with SPINRAZA resulted in motor function improvement or disease stabilization in toddlers, children and young adults who were treated continuously, some for up to six and a half years.
BIIB067 (tofersen) - ALS
•In July 2020 positive results from a Phase 1/2 study of tofersen for the potential treatment of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) ALS were published in The New England Journal of Medicine. Final Phase 1/2 study results demonstrated proof-of-concept and proof-of-biology of tofersen.
4
Table of Contents
BIIB105 (ataxin-2 ASO) - ALS
•In September 2020 the first patient in a Phase 1 study of BIIB105, an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) targeting ataxin-2 in ALS, was dosed.
Movement Disorders
BIIB101 (ION464) - Multiple System Atrophy
•In July 2020 the first patient in the Phase 1 study of BIIB101, an ASO targeting alpha synuclein in multiple system atrophy, was dosed.
Emerging Growth Areas
Immunology
Dapirolizumab Pegol (anti-CD40L) - SLE
•In August 2020 the first patient was dosed in the Phase 3 program for dapirolizumab pegol in patients with active SLE despite being treated by standard of care therapies. Dapirolizumab pegol is being developed in collaboration with UCB Pharma S.A.
BIIB059 (anti-BDCA2) - CLE/SLE
•In June 2020 we shared positive data from the 16-week CLE portion of the Phase 2 LILAC study. The study evaluated the efficacy and safety of BIIB059, a fully humanized IgG1 monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeting blood dendritic cell antigen 2 (BDCA2) expressed on plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDCs). The data were presented at the European E-Congress of Rheumatology (EULAR).
•In November 2020 we shared positive data from the 24-week SLE portion of the Phase 2 LILAC study (part A) demonstrating that BIIB059 was associated with a statistically significant reduction in total active joint count. These data, along with the previously reported findings from the CLE portion of the LILAC study, were presented at the American College of Rheumatology’s virtual ACR Convergence 2020.
Biosimilars
Samsung Bioepis - Biogen's Joint Venture with Samsung BioLogics
•In May 2020 Samsung Bioepis announced that the primary endpoints were met in the randomized, double-masked, Phase 3 trial comparing the efficacy, safety and immunogenicity of SB11 to the reference product (LUCENTIS). Ranibizumab is an anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth factor) for retinal vascular disorders, which are a leading cause of blindness.
•In June 2020 Samsung Bioepis initiated a Phase 3 study for SB15, a proposed aflibercept biosimilar referencing EYLEA. EYLEA is widely used to treat ophthalmologic conditions such as neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration, macular edema following retinal vein occlusion, diabetic macular edema (DME) and diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME.
Discontinued Programs
•In March 2020 we announced that the Phase 2 OPUS study investigating natalizumab as an adjunctive therapy in adults with drug-resistant focal epilepsy did not meet its primary endpoint. Safety data were in-line with the known safety profile of natalizumab. Based on these results, we discontinued development of natalizumab in drug-resistant focal epilepsy.
•In October 2020 we announced that the Phase 2 AFFINITY study of opicinumab (anti-LINGO) in MS did not meet its primary or secondary endpoints. Based on these results, we discontinued development of opicinumab.
•In February 2021 we announced that the Phase 2 SPARK study of BIIB054 (cinpanemab) in Parkinson's disease did not meet its primary or secondary endpoints. Based on these results, we discontinued development of BIIB054.
5
Table of Contents
Marketed Products
The following graph shows our revenues by product and revenues from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
biib-20201231_g3.jpg
								
		
(1) Fumarate includes TECFIDERA and VUMERITY. VUMERITY became commercially available in the U.S. in November 2019.
(2) Interferon includes AVONEX and PLEGRIDY.
(3) For 2020, 2019 and 2018 other includes FAMPYRA, FUMADERM, BENEPALI, IMRALDI and FLIXABI. For 2020 and 2019 other also includes VUMERITY, which became commercially available in the U.S. in November 2019. For 2018 other also includes ZINBRYTA, which was voluntary withdrawn from the market in March 2018.
(4) Anti-CD20 therapeutic programs include RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and OCREVUS.
Product sales for TECFIDERA, AVONEX, TYSABRI and SPINRAZA each accounted for more than 10.0% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. For additional financial information about our product and other revenues and geographic areas where we operate, please read Note 4, Revenues, and Note 24, Segment Information, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report and Item 6. Selected Financial Data and Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report. A discussion of the risks attendant to our operations is set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report.
Multiple Sclerosis and Neuroimmunology
We develop, manufacture and market a number of products designed to treat patients with MS. MS is a progressive neurological disease in which the body loses the ability to transmit messages along nerve cells, leading to a loss of muscle control, paralysis and, in some cases, death. Patients with active RMS experience an uneven pattern of disease progression characterized by periods of stability that are interrupted by flare-ups of the disease after which the patient may return to a lower baseline of functioning.
6
Table of Contents
The MS products we market and our major markets are as follows:
																				
Product		Indication		Collaborator		Major Markets
						
biib-20201231_g4.jpg
		RMS in the U.S.
RRMS in the E.U.		None		U.S.
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Spain
U.K.
						
biib-20201231_g5.jpg
		RMS in the U.S.		Alkermes Pharma Ireland Limited, a subsidiary of Alkermes plc (Alkermes)		U.S.
						
biib-20201231_g6.jpg
		RMS		None		U.S.
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Spain
						
biib-20201231_g7.jpg
		RMS in the U.S.
RRMS in the E.U.		None		U.S.
France
Germany
Italy
Spain
U.K.
						
biib-20201231_g8.jpg
		RMS
RRMS in the E.U.
Crohn's disease in the U.S.		None		U.S.
France
Germany
Italy
Spain
U.K.
						
biib-20201231_g9.jpg
		Walking ability for patients with MS		Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. (Acorda)		France
Germany
Neuromuscular Disorders
SMA is characterized by loss of motor neurons in the spinal cord and lower brain stem, resulting in severe and progressive muscular atrophy and weakness. Ultimately, individuals with the most severe type of SMA can become paralyzed and have difficulty performing the basic functions of life, like breathing and swallowing. Due to a deletion or mutations in the SMN1 gene, people with SMA do not produce enough survival motor neuron (SMN) protein, which is critical to the survival of the neurons that control muscles. The severity of SMA correlates with the amount of SMN protein. People with Type 1 SMA, the most severe life-threatening form, produce very little SMN protein and do not achieve the ability to sit without support, and typically do not live beyond two years of age without respiratory support and nutritional interventions. People with Type 2 and Type 3 SMA produce greater amounts of SMN protein and have less severe, but still life-altering, forms of SMA.
7
Table of Contents
Our SMA product and major markets are as follows:
																				
Product		Indication		Collaborator		Major Markets
						
biib-20201231_g10.jpg
		SMA		Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Ionis)		U.S.
Brazil
Canada
France
Germany
Italy
Japan
Spain
Turkey
For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Ionis, please read Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Biosimilars
Biosimilars are a group of biologic medicines that are similar to currently available biologic therapies developed by companies known as "originators". Under our agreements with Samsung Bioepis, we commercialize three anti-tumor necrosis factor (TNF) biosimilars in certain countries in Europe: BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, and FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE. We also have an option to acquire exclusive rights to commercialize BENEPALI, IMRALDI and FLIXABI in China. Additionally, we have exclusive rights to commercialize two potential ophthalmology biosimilar products, SB11, a proposed ranibizumab biosimilar referencing LUCENTIS, and SB15, a proposed aflibercept biosimilar referencing EYLEA, in major markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia.
Our current biosimilar products and major markets are as follows:
														
Product		Indication		Major Markets
				
biib-20201231_g11.jpg
		Rheumatoid arthritis
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Psoriatic arthritis
Axial spondyloarthritis
Plaque psoriasis
Paediatric plaque psoriasis		France
Germany
Italy
Spain
U.K.
				
biib-20201231_g12.jpg
		Rheumatoid arthritis
Juvenile idiopathic arthritis
Axial spondyloarthritis
Psoriatic arthritis
Psoriasis
Paediatric plaque psoriasis
Hidradenitis suppurativa
Adolescent hidradenitis suppurativa
Crohn’s disease
Paediatric Crohn's disease
Ulcerative colitis
Uveitis
Paediatric Uveitis		France
Germany
U.K.
				
biib-20201231_g13.jpg
		Rheumatoid arthritis
Crohn’s disease
Paediatric Crohn’s disease
Ulcerative colitis
Paediatric ulcerative colitis
Ankylosing spondylitis
Psoriatic arthritis
Psoriasis		France
Germany
Italy
For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
8
Table of Contents
Genentech Relationships
We have agreements with Genentech that entitle us to certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA, OCREVUS and other potential anti-CD20 therapies.
Our current anti-CD20 therapeutic programs and major markets are as follows:
														
Product		Indication		Major Markets
				
biib-20201231_g14.jpg
		Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
CLL
Rheumatoid arthritis
Two forms of ANCA-associated vasculitis
Pemphigus vulgaris		U.S.
Canada
				
biib-20201231_g15.jpg
		Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
CLL		U.S.
				
biib-20201231_g16.jpg
		In combination with chlorambucil for previously untreated CLL
Follicular lymphoma

In combination with chemotherapy followed by GAZYVA alone for previously untreated follicular lymphoma		U.S.
				
biib-20201231_g17.jpg
		RMS
PPMS		U.S.
Australia
Germany
Switzerland
For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, please read Note 1, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Other
																				
Product		Indication		Collaborator		Major Markets
						
biib-20201231_g18.jpg
		Moderate to severe plaque psoriasis		
None
		Germany
Patient Support and Access
We interact with patients, advocacy organizations and healthcare societies in order to gain insights into unmet needs. The insights gained from these engagements help us support patients with services, programs and applications that are designed to help patients lead better lives. Among other things, we provide customer service and other related programs for our products, such as disease and product specific websites, insurance research services, financial assistance programs and the facilitation of the procurement of our marketed products.
We are dedicated to helping patients obtain access to our therapies. Our patient representatives have access to a suite of financial assistance tools.
With those tools, we help patients understand their insurance coverage and, if needed, help patients compare and select new insurance options and programs. In the U.S., we have established programs that provide co-pay assistance or free marketed product for qualified uninsured or underinsured patients, based on specific eligibility criteria. We also provide charitable contributions to independent charitable organizations that assist patients with out-of-pocket expenses associated with their therapy.
We believe all healthcare stakeholders have a shared responsibility to ensure patients have equitable access to new, innovative medicines. We regularly review our pricing strategy and prioritize patient access to our therapies. We have a value-based contracting program designed to align the price of our therapies to the value our therapies deliver to patients. We also work with regulators, clinical
9
Table of Contents
researchers, ethicists, physicians and patient advocacy organizations and communities, among others, to determine how best to address requests for access to our investigational therapies in a manner that is consistent with our patient-focused values and compliant with regulatory standards and protocols. In appropriate situations, patients may have access to investigational therapies through Early Access Programs, single patient access or emergency use based on humanitarian or compassionate grounds.
Marketing and Distribution
Sales Force and Marketing
We promote our marketed products worldwide, including in the U.S., Europe and Japan, primarily through our own sales forces and marketing groups. In some countries, particularly in areas where we continue to expand into new geographic areas, we partner with third parties.
We and Eisai co-promote AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA in Japan in certain settings.
RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and OCREVUS are marketed by the Roche Group and its sublicensees.
We commercialize BENEPALI, IMRALDI and FLIXABI pursuant to our agreement with Samsung Bioepis in certain countries in Europe.
We focus our sales and marketing efforts on specialist physicians in private practice or at major medical centers. We use customary industry practices to market our products and to educate physicians, such as sales representatives calling on individual physicians, advertisements, professional symposia, direct mail, public relations and other methods.
Distribution Arrangements
We distribute our products in the U.S. principally through wholesale and specialty distributors of pharmaceutical products and specialty pharmacies, mail order specialty distributors or shipping service providers. In other countries, the distribution of our products varies from country to country, including through wholesale distributors of pharmaceutical products and third-party distribution partners who are responsible for most marketing and distribution activities.
Eisai distributes AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA and PLEGRIDY in India and other Asia-Pacific markets, excluding China.
RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA and OCREVUS are distributed by the Roche Group and its sublicensees.
We distribute BENEPALI, IMRALDI and FLIXABI in certain countries in Europe and have an option to acquire exclusive rights to distribute these products in China.
Our product sales to two wholesale distributors each accounted for more than 10.0% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and on a combined basis, accounted for approximately 45.8%, 47.0% and 50.0% of our gross product revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For additional information, please read Note 4, Revenues, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Patents and Other Proprietary Rights
Patents are important to obtaining and protecting exclusive rights in our products and product candidates. We regularly seek patent protection in the U.S. and in selected countries outside the U.S. for inventions originating from our research and development efforts and those we license or acquire. In addition, we license rights to various patents and patent applications.
U.S. patents, as well as most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years from the date the earliest application was filed; however, U.S. patents that issue on applications filed before June 8, 1995, may be effective until 17 years from the issue date, if that is later than the 20-year date. In some cases, the patent term may be extended to recapture a portion of the term lost during regulatory review of the claimed therapeutic or, in the case of the U.S., because of U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) delays in prosecuting the application. Specifically, in the U.S., under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, a patent that covers a drug approved by the FDA may be eligible for patent term extension (for up to 5 years, but not beyond a total of 14 years from the date of product approval) as compensation for patent term lost during the FDA regulatory review process. The duration and extension of the term of foreign patents varies, in accordance with local law. For example, supplementary protection certificates (SPCs) on some of our products have been granted in a number of European countries, compensating in part for delays in obtaining marketing approval.
Regulatory exclusivity, which may consist of regulatory data protection and market protection, also can provide meaningful protection for our products. Regulatory data protection provides to the holder of a drug or biologic marketing authorization, for a set period of time, the exclusive use of the proprietary pre-clinical and clinical data that it created at
10
Table of Contents
significant cost and submitted to the applicable regulatory authority to obtain approval of its product. After the period of exclusive use, third parties are permitted to reference such data in abbreviated applications for approval and to market (subject to any applicable market protection) their generic drugs and biosimilars. Market protection provides the holder of a drug or biologic marketing authorization the exclusive right to commercialize its product for a period of time, thereby preventing the commercialization of another product containing the same active ingredient(s) during that period. Although the World Trade Organization's agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS) requires signatory countries to provide regulatory exclusivity to innovative pharmaceutical products, implementation and enforcement varies widely from country to country.
We also rely upon other forms of unpatented confidential information to remain competitive. We protect such information principally through refraining from public disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, scientists whose research we sponsor and other advisers. In the case of our employees, these agreements also provide, in compliance with relevant law, that inventions and other intellectual property conceived by such employees during their employment are our exclusive property.
Our trademarks are important to us and are generally covered by trademark applications or
registrations in the USPTO and the patent or trademark offices of other countries. We also use trademarks licensed from third parties, such as the trademark FAMPYRA, which we license from Acorda. Trademark protection varies in accordance with local law, and continues in some countries as long as the trademark is used and in other countries as long as the trademark is registered. Trademark registrations generally are for fixed but renewable terms.
Our Patent Portfolio
The following table describes our patents in the U.S. and Europe that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter and expected expiration dates. Except as otherwise noted, the expected expiration dates include any granted patent term extensions and issued SPCs. In some instances, there are later-expiring patents relating to our products directed to, among other things, particular forms or compositions, methods of manufacturing or use of the drug in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. We also continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the U.S. and other territories covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table.
11
Table of Contents
																										
Product		Territory		Patent No.		General Subject Matter		
Patent
Expiration(1)
TECFIDERA		U.S.		8,399,514		Methods of treatment		
2028(2)
		Europe		1131065		Formulations of dialkyl fumarates and their use for treating autoimmune diseases		
2024(3)
		Europe		2137537		Methods of use		
2028(4)
PLEGRIDY		U.S.		7,446,173		Polymer conjugates of interferon beta-1a		2022
		U.S.		8,524,660		Methods of treatment		2023
		U.S.		8,017,733		Polymer conjugates of interferon beta-1a		2027
		Europe		1656952		Polymer conjugates of interferon-beta-1a and uses thereof		
2024(5)
		Europe		1476181		Polymer conjugates of interferon-beta-1a and uses thereof		
2023(6)
TYSABRI		U.S.		7,807,167		Methods of treatment		2023
		U.S.		9,493,567		Methods of treatment		2027
		Europe		1485127		Methods of use 		
2023(2)
		Europe		2676967		Methods of use		2027
FAMPYRA		Europe		1732548		Sustained-release aminopyridine compositions for increasing walking speed in patients with MS		
2025(7)
		Europe		2377536		Sustained-release aminopyridine compositions for treating MS		
2025(8)
VUMERITY		U.S.		8,669,281		Compounds and pharmaceutical compositions		2033
		U.S.		9,090,558		Methods of treatment		2033
		U.S.		10,080,733		Crystalline forms, pharmaceutical compositions and methods of treatment		2033
SPINRAZA		U.S.		7,101,993		Oligonucleotides containing 2’-O-modified purines		2023
		U.S.		7,838,657		SMA treatment via targeting of SMN2 splice site inhibitory sequences		2027
		U.S.		8,110,560		SMA treatment via targeting of SMN2 splice site inhibitory sequences		2025
		U.S.		8,361,977		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2030
		U.S.		8,980,853		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2030
		U.S.		9,717,750		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2030
		U.S.		9,926,559		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2034
		U.S.		10,266,822		SMA treatment via targeting of SMN2 splice site inhibitory sequences		2025
		U.S.		10,436,802		Methods for Treating Spinal Muscular Atrophy		2035
		Europe		1910395		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		
2026(9)
		Europe		2548560		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		
2026(10)
		Europe		3305302		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2030
		Europe		3308788		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2026
		Europe		3449926		Compositions and methods for modulation of SMN2 splicing		2030
Footnotes follow on next page.
12
Table of Contents

(1)In addition to patent protection, certain of our products are entitled to regulatory exclusivity in the U.S. and the E.U. expected until the dates set forth below:
														
Product		Territory		Expected Expiration
TECFIDERA		E.U.		2024
PLEGRIDY		U.S.		2026
		E.U.		2024
FAMPYRA		E.U.		2021
SPINRAZA		U.S.		2023
		E.U.		2029
(2)For additional information as to the validity of this patent, please read Note 20, Litigation, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
(3)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2024.
(4)This patent was revoked in a European opposition. This decision is being appealed. This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2029.
(5)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2024.
(6)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2028.
(7)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2026.
(8)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2026.
(9)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2031.
(10)This patent is subject to granted SPCs in certain European countries, which extended the patent term in those countries to 2031.
The existence of patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Patents relating to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes, such as those that cover our existing products, compounds and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, inter partes reviews, administrative challenges or other similar types of proceedings are, have been and may in the future be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our patents, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights, and in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. We also face challenges to our patents, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights covering our products by third-parties, such as manufacturers of generics, biosimilars, prodrugs and products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways. A discussion of certain risks and uncertainties that may affect our patent position, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights is set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report, and the discussion of legal proceedings related to certain patents described above is set forth in Note 20, Litigation, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
13
Table of Contents
Competition
Competition in the biopharmaceutical industry is intense. There are many companies, including biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies, engaged in developing products for the indications our approved products are approved to treat and the therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and development and other resources than we do.
We believe that competition and leadership in the industry is based on managerial and technological excellence and innovation as well as establishing patent and other proprietary positions through research and development. The achievement of a leadership position also depends largely upon our ability to maximize the approval, acceptance and use of our product candidates and the availability of adequate financial resources to fund facilities, equipment, personnel, clinical testing, manufacturing and marketing. Another key aspect of remaining competitive in the industry is recruiting and retaining leading scientists and technicians to conduct our research activities and advance our development programs, including with the commercial expertise to effectively market our products.
Competition among products approved for sale may be based, among other things, on patent position, product efficacy, safety, patient convenience, delivery devices, reliability, availability, reimbursement and price. In addition, early entry of a new pharmaceutical product into the market may have important advantages in gaining product acceptance and market share. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we can develop products, complete the testing and approval process and supply commercial quantities of products will have a significant impact on our competitive position.
The introduction of new products or technologies, including the development of new processes or technologies by competitors or new information about existing products or technologies, results in increased competition for our marketed products and pricing pressure on our marketed products. The development of new or improved treatment options or standards of care or cures for the diseases our products treat reduces and could eliminate the use of our products or may limit the utility and application of ongoing clinical trials for our product candidates.
In addition, the commercialization of certain of our own approved products, products of our collaborators and pipeline product candidates may
negatively impact future sales of our existing products.
We also face increased competitive pressures from the introduction of generic versions, prodrugs and biosimilars of existing products and products approved under abbreviated regulatory pathways. Such products are likely to be sold at substantially lower prices than branded products, which may significantly reduce both the price that we are able to charge for our products and the volume of products we sell. In addition, in some markets, when a generic or biosimilar version of one of our products is commercialized, it may be automatically substituted for our product and significantly reduce our revenues in a short period of time.
We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, along with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to launch and market them effectively in a highly competitive environment.
Additional information about the competition that our marketed products face is set forth below and in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report.
Multiple Sclerosis
TECFIDERA, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY, TYSABRI and VUMERITY each compete with one or more of the following products as well as generic and biosimilar versions of such products:
								
Competing Product		Competitor
AUBAGIO (teriflunomide)		Sanofi Genzyme
BETASERON/BETAFERON (interferon-beta-1b)		Bayer Group
COPAXONE
(glatiramer acetate)		Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd.
EXTAVIA
(interferon-beta-1b)		Novartis AG
GILENYA (fingolimod)		Novartis AG
GLATOPA (glatiramer acetate)		Sandoz, a division of Novartis AG
LEMTRADA (alemtuzumab)		Sanofi Genzyme
MAVENCLAD (cladribine)		EMD Serono
MAYZENT (siponimod)		Novartis AG
OCREVUS (ocrelizumab)		Genentech
REBIF
(interferon-beta-1)		EMD Serono
ZEPOSIA (ozanimod)		BMS
BAFIERTAM (monomethyl fumarate)		Banner Life Sciences
KESIMPTA (ofatumumab)		Novartis AG
In addition, multiple TECFIDERA generic entrants are now in the U.S. market and have deeply discounted prices compared to TECFIDERA. The generic competition for TECFIDERA significantly reduced our TECFIDERA revenues during the year ended December 31, 2020, and is expected to have a
14
Table of Contents
substantial negative impact on our TECFIDERA revenues for as long as there is generic competition.
FAMPYRA is indicated as a treatment to improve walking in adult patients with MS who have a walking disability and is the first treatment that addresses this unmet medical need with demonstrated efficacy in people with all types of MS. FAMPYRA is currently the only therapy approved to improve walking in patients with MS.
Competition in the MS market is intense. Along with us, a number of companies are working to develop additional treatments for MS that may in the future compete with our MS products. One such product that was approved in the U.S. in 2017 and in the E.U. in 2018 is OCREVUS, a treatment for RMS and PPMS that was developed by Genentech. While we have a financial interest in OCREVUS, future sales of our MS products may be adversely affected if OCREVUS continues to gain market share, or if other MS products that we or our competitors are developing are commercialized.
Spinal Muscular Atrophy
We face competition from a gene therapy product that was approved in the U.S. and the E.U. and a new oral product that was approved in the U.S. and has been accepted for review in the E.U. We expect that we will experience competition from both products in additional jurisdictions in the future. Additionally, we are aware of other products now in development that, if launched, may also compete with SPINRAZA. Future sales of SPINRAZA may be adversely affected by the commercialization of competing products.
Psoriasis
FUMADERM competes with several different types of therapies in the psoriasis market within Germany, including oral systemics such as methotrexate and cyclosporine.
Biosimilars
BENEPALI, IMRALDI and FLIXABI, the three biosimilar products we currently commercialize in certain countries in Europe for Samsung Bioepis, compete with their reference products, ENBREL, HUMIRA and REMICADE, respectively, as well as other biosimilars of those reference products.
Genentech Relationships in Other Indications
RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA in Oncology
RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA compete with a number of therapies in the oncology market, including TREANDA (bendamustine HCL), ARZERRA (ofatumumab), IMBRUVICA (ibrutinib) and ZYDELIG (idelalisib).
We also expect that over time RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA will increasingly compete with RITUXAN in the oncology market. In addition, we are aware of several other anti-CD20 molecules, including biosimilar products, that have recently been approved and are expected to compete with RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA in the oncology market. In November 2019, January 2020 and January 2021 biosimilar products referencing RITUXAN were launched in the U.S and are being offered at lower prices. This competition has adversely affected the pre-tax profits of our collaboration arrangements with Genentech and could have a significant adverse affect our co-promotion profits in the U.S. in future years.
RITUXAN in Rheumatoid Arthritis
RITUXAN competes with several different types of therapies in the rheumatoid arthritis market, including, among others, traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs such as steroids, methotrexate and cyclosporine, TNF inhibitors, ORENCIA (abatacept), ACTEMRA (tocilizumab) and XELJANZ (tofacitinib).
We are also aware of other products, including biosimilars, in development that, if approved, may compete with RITUXAN in the rheumatoid arthritis market.
Research and Development Programs
A commitment to research is fundamental to our mission. Our research efforts are focused on better understanding the underlying biology of diseases so we can discover and deliver treatments that have the potential to make a real difference in the lives of patients with high unmet medical needs. By applying our expertise in biologics and our growing capabilities in small molecule, antisense, gene therapy, gene editing and other technologies, we target specific medical needs where we believe new or better treatments are needed.
We intend to continue committing significant resources to targeted research and development opportunities where there is a significant unmet need and where a drug candidate has the potential to be highly differentiated. As part of our ongoing research and development efforts, we have devoted significant resources to conducting clinical studies to advance the development of new pharmaceutical products and technologies and to explore the utility of our existing products in treating disorders beyond those currently approved in their labels.
For additional information on our research and development expense included in our consolidated statements of income, please read Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this report.
15
Table of Contents
The table below highlights our current research and development programs that are in clinical trials and the current phase of such programs. Drug development involves a high degree of risk and investment, and the status, timing and scope of our development programs are subject to change. Important factors that could adversely affect our drug development efforts are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors included in this report.
																										
Core Growth Areas	MS and Neuroimmunology		BIIB061 (oral remyelination) - MS		Phase 1			
						
	BIIB091 (BTK inhibitor) - MS		Phase 1			
						
	BIIB107 (anti-VLA4) - MS		Phase 1			
							
Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia		
Aducanumab (Aβ mAb)* - Alzheimer's
		Filed in U.S., E.U. and Japan
			
	
BAN2401 (lecanemab)* - Alzheimer's
		Phase 3
						
	BIIB092 (gosuranemab) - Alzheimer's		Phase 2	
						
	BIIB076 (anti-tau mAb) - Alzheimer's		Phase 1			
						
	BIIB080 (tau ASO) - Alzheimer's		Phase 1			
							
Neuromuscular Disorders,
including SMA and ALS		BIIB067 (tofersen) - ALS		Phase 3
						
	
BIIB078 (IONIS-C9Rx)# - ALS
		Phase 1			
						
	
BIIB105 (ataxin-2 ASO)# - ALS
		Phase 1			
						
	BIIB100 (XP01 inhibitor) - ALS		Phase 1			
						
	BIIB110 (ActRIIA/B ligand trap) - SMA		Phase 1			
							
Parkinson's Disease and
Movement Disorders		BIIB124 (SAGE-324)* - Essential Tremor		Phase 2	
						
	
BIIB094 (ION859)# - Parkinson's
		Phase 1			
						
	BIIB118 (CK1 inhibitor) - ISWRD in Parkinson's		Phase 1			
						
	
BIIB101 (ION464)# - Multiple System Atrophy
		Phase 1			
						
	
BIIB122 (DNL151)* - Parkinson's
		Phase 1			
							
Ophthalmology		BIIB111 (timrepigene emparvovec) - CHM		Phase 3
						
	BIIB112 (RPGR gene therapy) - XLRP		Phase 2/3	
								
	Neuropsychiatry		BIIB125 (zuranolone)* - PPD		Phase 3
							
		BIIB125 (zuranolone)* - MDD		Phase 3
							
		BIIB104 (AMPA PAM) - CIAS		Phase 2	
								
Emerging Growth Areas	Immunology		Dapirolizumab pegol (anti-CD40L)* - SLE		Phase 3
						
	BIIB059 (anti-BDCA2) - CLE/SLE		Phase 2	
							
Acute Neurology		
BIIB093 (glibenclamide IV) - LHI^ Stroke
		Phase 3
						
	
TMS-007# - Acute Ischemic Stroke
		Phase 2	
						
	BIIB093 (glibenclamide IV) - Brain Contusion		Phase 2	
					
Neuropathic Pain		BIIB074 (vixotrigine) - Trigeminal Neuralgia		Phase 2	
						
	BIIB074 (vixotrigine) - Small Fiber Neuropathy		Phase 2	
						
	BIIB095 (Nav 1.7) - Neuropathic Pain		Phase 1			
					
	Biosimilars		
SB11 (referencing LUCENTIS)*
		Filed in U.S. and E.U.
							
		
SB15 (referencing EYLEA)*
		Phase 3
* Collaboration program
# Option agreement
^ Large Hemispheric Infarction (LHI); postpartum depression (PPD); major depressive disorder (MDD)
For information about certain of our agreements with collaborators and other third parties, please read the subsection entitled Business Relationships below and Note 2, Acquisitions, Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, and Note 19, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
16
Table of Contents
Business Relationships
As part of our business strategy, we establish business relationships, including entering into licenses, joint ventures and collaborative arrangements with other companies, universities and medical research institutions, to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies, universities and medical research institutions.
Below is a brief description of certain business relationships and collaborations that expand our pipeline and provide us with certain rights to existing and potential new products and technologies. For additional information on certain of these relationships, including their ongoing financial and accounting impact on our business, please read Note 2, Acquisitions, Note 18, Collaborative and Other Relationships, and Note 19, Investments in Variable Interest Entities, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report.
Acorda Therapeutics, Inc.
We have a collaboration and license agreement with Acorda to develop and commercialize products containing fampridine, such as FAMPYRA, in markets outside the U.S. We are responsible for all regulatory activities and the future clinical development of related products in those markets.
Alkermes
We have an exclusive license and collaboration agreement with Alkermes for VUMERITY, which was approved for the treatment of RMS in the U.S. in October 2019 and became commercially available in the U.S. in November 2019. Under this agreement, we have an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize VUMERITY.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
We have an exclusive license agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS) for the development and potential commercialization of BIIB092 (gosuranemab), a Phase 2 investigational therapy in Alzheimer's disease. Under this agreement, we received worldwide rights to gosuranemab and are responsible for the full development and potential commercialization of gosuranemab in Alzheimer's disease.
Denali Therapeutics Inc.
We have a collaboration and license agreement with Denali to co-develop and co-commercialize Denali’s small molecule inhibitors of LRRK2 for Parkinson’s disease. In the LRRK2 collaboration, we and Denali share responsibility and costs for global development as well as profits and losses for commercialization in the U.S. and China. Outside the U.S. and China, we are responsible for commercialization and pay Denali tiered royalties.
In addition to the LRRK2 program, we also have an exclusive option to license two preclinical programs from Denali’s Transport Vehicle platform, including its Antibody Transport Vehicle: Abeta program and a second program utilizing its Transport Vehicle technology. Further, we have a right of first negotiation on two additional Transport Vehicle-enabled therapeutics, should Denali decide to seek a collaboration for such programs.
Eisai Co., Ltd.
We have a collaboration agreement with Eisai to jointly develop and commercialize BAN2401, an Eisai product candidate for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Eisai serves as the global operational and regulatory lead for BAN2401 and all costs, including research, development, sales and marketing expenses, are shared equally between us and Eisai. If BAN2401 receives marketing approval, we and Eisai will co-promote BAN2401 and share profits equally.
We also have a collaboration agreement with Eisai to jointly develop and commercialize aducanumab (the Aducanumab Collaboration Agreement). Under the Aducanumab Collaboration Agreement, the two companies will co-promote aducanumab with a region-based profit split and we lead the ongoing development of aducanumab.
We and Eisai co-promote AVONEX, TYSABRI and TECFIDERA in Japan in certain settings and Eisai distributes AVONEX, TYSABRI, TECFIDERA and PLEGRIDY in India and other Asia-Pacific markets, excluding China.
Genentech, Inc. (Roche Group)
We have collaboration arrangements with Genentech which entitle us to certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA, GAZYVA, OCREVUS and other potential anti-CD20 therapies.
Ionis Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
We have an exclusive, worldwide option and collaboration agreement with Ionis relating to the development and commercialization of antisense therapeutics for up to three gene targets. Under a
17
Table of Contents
separate collaboration and license agreement with Ionis, we have an exclusive, worldwide license to develop and commercialize SPINRAZA for the treatment of SMA. We also have a 10-year exclusive collaboration agreement with Ionis to develop novel ASO drug candidates for a broad range of neurological diseases.
In addition, we have research collaboration agreements with Ionis under which both companies perform discovery level research and will develop and commercialize new ASO drug candidates for the potential treatment of SMA and additional antisense or other therapeutics for the potential treatment of neurological diseases.
Neurimmune SubOne AG
We have a collaboration and license agreement with Neurimmune SubOne AG (Neurimmune) for the development and commercialization of antibodies for the potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease, including aducanumab (as amended, the Neurimmune Agreement). We are responsible for the development, manufacturing and commercialization of all licensed products.
Samsung Bioepis Co., Ltd.
We and Samsung BioLogics established a joint venture, Samsung Bioepis, to develop, manufacture and market biosimilar products. We also have an agreement with Samsung Bioepis to commercialize, over a 10-year term, 3 anti-TNF biosimilar product candidates in certain countries in Europe and, in the case of BENEPALI, Japan. Under this agreement, we are commercializing BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, and FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE, in certain countries in Europe.
In December 2019 we completed a transaction with Samsung Bioepis and secured the exclusive rights to commercialize two potential ophthalmology biosimilar products, SB11, a proposed ranibizumab biosimilar referencing LUCENTIS, and SB15, a proposed aflibercept biosimilar referencing EYLEA, in major markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and Australia. We also acquired an option to extend our existing commercial agreement with Samsung Bioepis for BENEPALI, IMRALDI and FLIXABI in certain countries in Europe and obtained an option to acquire exclusive rights to commercialize these products in China.
In addition to our joint venture and commercialization agreements with Samsung Bioepis, we license certain of our proprietary technology to Samsung Bioepis in connection with Samsung
Bioepis' development, manufacture and commercialization of its biosimilar products.
Sage Therapeutics, Inc.
We have a global collaboration and license agreement with Sage to jointly develop and commercialize zuranolone for the potential treatment of major depressive disorder, postpartum depression and other psychiatric disorders and SAGE-324 for the potential treatment of essential tremor and other neurological disorders. We and Sage share equal responsibility and costs for development as well as profits and losses for commercialization in the U.S. Outside the U.S., we are responsible for development and commercialization, excluding Japan, Taiwan and South Korea with respect to zuranolone, and will pay Sage tiered royalties.
Sangamo Therapeutics, Inc.
We have a collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo to develop and commercialize ST-501 for tauopathies, including Alzheimer’s disease; ST-502 for synucleinopathies, including Parkinson’s disease; a third neuromuscular disease target; and up to nine additional neurological disease targets to be identified and selected within a five-year period. The companies are leveraging Sangamo's proprietary zinc finger protein technology delivered via adeno-associated virus to modulate the expression of key genes involved in neurological diseases. Sangamo will perform early research activities, costs for which will be shared by the companies, and we will assume responsibility and costs beyond the early research activities.
Regulatory
Our current and contemplated activities and the products, technologies and processes that result from such activities are subject to substantial government regulation.
Regulation of Pharmaceuticals
Product Approval and Post-Approval Regulation in the U.S.
APPROVAL PROCESS
Before new pharmaceutical products may be sold in the U.S., preclinical studies and clinical trials of the products must be conducted and the results submitted to the FDA for approval. With limited exceptions, the FDA requires companies to register both pre-approval and post-approval clinical trials and disclose clinical trial results in public databases. Failure to register a trial or disclose study results within the required time periods could result in penalties, including civil monetary penalties. Clinical trial programs must establish efficacy, determine an
18
Table of Contents
appropriate dose and dosing regimen and define the conditions for safe use. This is a high-risk process that requires stepwise clinical studies in which the candidate product must successfully meet predetermined endpoints. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a product are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA or a New Drug Application (NDA). In response to a BLA or NDA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval.
Product development and receipt of regulatory approval takes a number of years, involves the expenditure of substantial resources and depends on a number of factors, including the severity of the disease in question, the availability of suitable alternative treatments, potential safety signals observed in preclinical or clinical tests and the risks and benefits of the product as demonstrated in clinical trials. The FDA has substantial discretion in the product approval process, and it is impossible to predict with any certainty whether and when the FDA will grant marketing approval. The agency may require the sponsor of a BLA or NDA to conduct additional clinical studies or to provide other scientific or technical information about the product, and these additional requirements may lead to unanticipated delays or expenses. Furthermore, even if a product is approved, the approval may be subject to limitations based on the FDA's interpretation of the existing pre-clinical and/or clinical data.
The FDA has developed four distinct approaches intended to facilitate the development and expedite the regulatory review of therapeutically important drugs, especially when the drugs are the first available treatment or have advantages over existing treatments: accelerated approval, fast track, breakthrough therapy and priority review.
•Accelerated Approval: The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” to products that treat serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefits to patients over existing treatments. Under this pathway, the FDA may approve a product based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or irreversible morbidity. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to provide the FDA with confirmatory data post-approval to verify and describe clinical benefit. Under the FDA's accelerated approval regulations, if the FDA concludes that a drug that has been shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it may require
certain post-marketing restrictions to assure safe use. In addition, for products approved under accelerated approval, sponsors may be required to submit all copies of their promotional materials, including advertisements, to the FDA at least 30 days prior to initial dissemination. The FDA may withdraw approval if, for instance, post-marketing studies fail to verify clinical benefit, it becomes clear that restrictions on the distribution of the product are inadequate to ensure its safe use or if a sponsor fails to comply with the conditions of the accelerated approval.
•Fast Track: The FDA may grant "fast track" status to products that treat a serious condition and have data demonstrating the potential to address an unmet medical need or a drug that has been designated as a qualified infectious disease product.
•Breakthrough Therapy: The FDA may grant “breakthrough therapy” status to drugs designed to treat, alone or in combination with another drug or drugs, a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and for which preliminary clinical evidence suggests a substantial improvement over existing therapies based on a clinically significant endpoint. Breakthrough therapy status entitles the sponsor to earlier and more frequent meetings with the FDA regarding the development of nonclinical and clinical data and permits the FDA to offer product development or regulatory advice for the purpose of shortening the time to product approval. Breakthrough therapy status does not guarantee that a product will be eligible for priority review and does not ensure FDA approval.
•Priority Review: “Priority review” only applies to applications (original or efficacy supplement) for a drug that treats a serious condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a serious condition. Priority review may also be granted for any supplement that proposes a labeling change due to studies completed in response to a written request from the FDA for pediatric studies, for an application for a drug that has been designated as a qualified infectious disease product or for any application or supplement for a drug submitted with a priority review voucher.
In December 2016 the FDA issued a rare pediatric disease priority review voucher to us in connection with the approval of SPINRAZA.
19
Table of Contents
POST-MARKETING STUDIES
Regardless of the approval pathway employed, the FDA may require a sponsor to conduct additional post-marketing studies as a condition of approval to provide data on safety and effectiveness. If a sponsor fails to conduct the required studies, the FDA may withdraw its approval. In addition, if the FDA concludes that a drug that has been shown to be effective can be safely used only if distribution or use is restricted, it can mandate post-marketing restrictions to assure safe use. In such a case, the sponsor may be required to establish rigorous systems to assure use of the product under safe conditions. These systems are usually referred to as Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies (REMS). The FDA can impose financial penalties for failing to comply with certain post-marketing commitments, including REMS. In addition, any changes to an approved REMS must be reviewed and approved by the FDA prior to implementation.
ADVERSE EVENT REPORTING
We monitor information on side effects and adverse events reported during clinical studies and after marketing approval and report such information and events to regulatory agencies. Non-compliance with the FDA's safety reporting requirements may result in civil or criminal penalties. Side effects or adverse events that are reported during clinical trials can delay, impede or prevent marketing approval. Based on new safety information that emerges after approval, the FDA can mandate product labeling changes, impose a new REMS or the addition of elements to an existing REMS, require new post-marketing studies (including additional clinical trials) or suspend or withdraw approval of the product. These requirements may affect our ability to maintain marketing approval of our products or require us to make significant expenditures to obtain or maintain such approvals.
APPROVAL OF CHANGES TO AN APPROVED PRODUCT
If we seek to make certain types of changes to an approved product, such as adding a new indication, making certain manufacturing changes or changing manufacturers or suppliers of certain ingredients or components, the FDA will need to review and approve such changes in advance. In the case of a new indication, we are required to demonstrate with additional clinical data that the product is safe and effective for a use other than what was initially approved. FDA regulatory review may result in denial or modification of the planned changes, or requirements to conduct additional tests or evaluations that can substantially delay or increase the cost of the planned changes.
REGULATION OF PRODUCT ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION
The FDA regulates all advertising and promotion activities and communications for products under its jurisdiction both before and after approval. Pursuant to FDA guidance, a company can make safety and efficacy claims either in or consistent with the product label. However, physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for uses that are not described in the drug's labeling. Such off-label prescribing is common across medical specialties, and often reflects a physician's belief that the off-label use is the best treatment for patients. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments, but FDA regulations do impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers' communications regarding off-label uses. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements may subject a company to adverse publicity, enforcement action by the FDA, corrective advertising and the full range of civil and criminal penalties available to the government.
Regulation of Combination Products
Combination products are defined by the FDA to include products comprising two or more regulated components (e.g., a biologic and a device). Biologics and devices each have their own regulatory requirements, and combination products may have additional requirements. Some of our marketed products meet this definition and are regulated under this framework and similar regulations outside the U.S., and we expect that some of our pipeline product candidates may be evaluated for regulatory approval under this framework as well.
In May 2017 new regulations governing medical devices (MDR) and in-vitro diagnostic medical devices (IVDR) entered into force in the E.U. although these are not expected to fully apply until May 2021 with respect to the MDR regulations and May 2022 with respect to the IVDR regulations. All products covered by these regulations will be required to comply with them at the end of the transitional periods. These regulations introduce new requirements, including for clinical investigation of certain classifications of medical devices, require increased regulatory scrutiny, enhance the requirements for post market surveillance and vigilance and provide for greater transparency. These regulations also change the requirements for assessment of the medical device components of integral drug-device combination products, necessitating assessment of the device components under both the medical device and medicinal product regulatory regimes.
20
Table of Contents
Product Approval and Post-Approval Regulation Outside the U.S.
We market our products in numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Most of these jurisdictions have product approval and post-approval regulatory processes that are similar in principle to those in the U.S. In Europe, for example, where a substantial part of our ex-U.S. efforts are focused, there are several routes for marketing approval, depending on the type of product for which approval is sought. Under the centralized procedure, a company submits a single application to the EMA. The marketing authorization application is similar to the NDA or BLA in the U.S. and is evaluated by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), the expert scientific committee of the EMA responsible for human medicines. If the CHMP determines that the marketing authorization application fulfills the requirements for quality, safety and efficacy and that the medicine has a positive benefit risk balance, it will adopt a positive opinion recommending the granting of the marketing authorization by the EC. The CHMP opinion is not binding, but is typically adopted by the EC. A MAA approved by the EC is valid in all member states of the E.U. The centralized procedure is required for all biological products, orphan medicinal products and new treatments for neurodegenerative disorders, and it is available for certain other products, including those which constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation.
In addition to the centralized procedure, the European regulatory framework includes the following options for regulatory review and approval in E.U. member states:
•a national procedure, where the first application is made to the competent authority in one E.U. country only;
•a decentralized procedure, where applicants submit identical applications to several E.U. countries and receive simultaneous approval, if the medicine has not yet been authorized in any E.U. country; and
•a mutual recognition procedure, where applicants that have a medicine authorized in one E.U. country can apply for mutual recognition of this authorization in other E.U. countries.
As in the U.S., the E.U. also has distinct approaches intended to optimize the regulatory pathways for therapeutically important drugs, including the Priority Medicines Evaluation Scheme (PRIME), accelerated assessment and conditional marketing authorization. PRIME is intended to provide additional support to medicine developers throughout the
development process. Regulatory review timelines in the E.U. may be truncated under accelerated assessment for products that address an unmet medical need. In addition, conditional marketing authorizations may be granted for such products in the interest of public health, where the benefit of immediate availability outweighs the risk of less comprehensive data than normally required. Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year and can be renewed annually. The marketing authorization holder is required to complete specific obligations (ongoing or new studies and, in some cases, additional activities) with a view to providing comprehensive data confirming that the benefit risk balance is positive. Once comprehensive data on the product have been obtained, the marketing authorization may be converted into a standard marketing authorization.
Aside from the U.S. and E.U., there are countries in other regions where it is possible to receive an "accelerated" review whereby the national regulatory authority will commit to truncated review timelines for products that meet specific medical needs.
In the E.U. there is detailed legislation on pharmacovigilance and extensive guidance on good pharmacovigilance practices. A failure to comply with E.U. pharmacovigilance obligations may result in significant financial penalties for the marketing authorization holder.
Regardless of the approval process employed, various parties share responsibilities for the monitoring, detection and evaluation of adverse events post-approval, including national competent authorities, the EMA, the EC and the marketing authorization holder. The EMA’s Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee is responsible for assessing and monitoring the safety of human medicines and makes recommendations on product safety issues. Marketing authorization holders have an obligation to inform regulatory agencies of any new information which may influence the evaluation of benefits and risks of the medicinal product concerned.
In the U.S., E.U. and other jurisdictions, regulatory agencies, including the FDA, conduct periodic inspections of NDA, BLA and marketing authorization holders to assess their compliance with pharmacovigilance obligations.
Good Manufacturing Practices
Regulatory agencies regulate and inspect equipment, facilities and processes used in the manufacturing and testing of pharmaceutical and biologic products prior to approving a product. If, after receiving approval from regulatory agencies, a
21
Table of Contents
company makes a material change in manufacturing equipment, location or process, additional regulatory review and approval may be required. We also must adhere to current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) and product-specific regulations enforced by regulatory agencies following product approval. The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies also conduct periodic visits to re-inspect equipment, facilities and processes following the initial approval of a product. If, as a result of these inspections, it is determined that our equipment, facilities or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product approval, regulatory agencies may seek civil, criminal or administrative sanctions or remedies against us, including significant financial penalties and the suspension of our manufacturing operations.
Good Clinical Practices
The FDA, the EMA and other regulatory agencies promulgate regulations and standards for designing, conducting, monitoring, auditing and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are accurate and that the rights and welfare of trial participants are adequately protected (commonly referred to as current Good Clinical Practices (cGCP)). Regulatory agencies enforce cGCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites, contract research organizations (CROs) and institutional review boards. If our studies fail to comply with applicable cGCP guidelines, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and relevant regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. Noncompliance can also result in civil or criminal sanctions. We rely on third parties, including CROs, to carry out many of our clinical trial-related activities. Failure of such third parties to comply with cGCP can likewise result in rejection of our clinical trial data or other sanctions.
In April 2014 the EC adopted a new Clinical Trial Regulation, which was effective in June 2014 but is not expected to apply until 2021. The regulation harmonizes the procedures for assessment and governance of clinical trials throughout the E.U. and will require that information on the authorization, conduct and results of each clinical trial conducted in the E.U. be publicly available.
Approval of Biosimilars
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) amended the Public Health Service Act (PHSA) to authorize the FDA to approve biological products, referred to as biosimilars or follow-on biologics, that are shown to be "highly similar" to previously approved biological products based upon potentially abbreviated data packages. The biosimilar
must show it has no clinically meaningful differences in terms of safety and effectiveness from the reference product, and only minor differences in clinically inactive components are allowable in biosimilar products. The approval pathway for biosimilars does, however, grant a biologics manufacturer a 12-year period of exclusivity from the date of approval of its biological product before biosimilar competition can be introduced. There is uncertainty, however, as the approval framework for biosimilars originally was enacted as part of the PPACA. There have been, and there are likely to continue to be, federal legislative and administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the PPACA. If the PPACA is repealed, substantially modified or invalidated, it is unclear what, if any, impact such action would have on biosimilar regulation.
A biosimilars approval pathway has been in place in the E.U. since 2003. The EMA has issued a number of scientific and product specific biosimilar guidelines, including requirements for approving biosimilars containing monoclonal antibodies. In the E.U., biosimilars are generally approved under the centralized procedure. The approval pathway allows sponsors of a biosimilar to seek and obtain regulatory approval based in part on reliance on the clinical trial data of an innovator product to which the biosimilar has been demonstrated, through comprehensive comparability studies, to be “similar.” In many cases, this allows biosimilars to be brought to market without conducting the full complement of clinical trials typically required for novel biologic drugs.
Orphan Drug Act
Under the U.S. Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drugs or biologics intended to treat a “rare disease or condition,” which generally is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the U.S. If a product which has an orphan drug designation subsequently receives an initial FDA approval for the indication for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan exclusivity, i.e., the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for a period of seven years following marketing approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Legislation similar to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act has been enacted in other countries to encourage the research, development and marketing of medicines to treat, prevent or diagnose rare diseases. In the E.U., medicinal products that receive and maintain an orphan designation are entitled to 10 years of market exclusivity following approval, protocol assistance and access to the centralized procedure for marketing
22
Table of Contents
authorization. SPINRAZA has been granted orphan drug designation in the U.S., E.U. and Japan.
Regulation Pertaining to Pricing and Reimbursement
In both domestic and foreign markets, sales of our products depend, to a significant extent, on the availability and amount of reimbursement by third-party payors, including governments, private health plans and other organizations. Substantial uncertainty exists regarding the pricing and reimbursement of our products, and drug prices continue to receive significant scrutiny. Governments may regulate coverage, reimbursement and pricing of our products to control cost or affect utilization of our products. Challenges to our pricing strategies, by either government or private stakeholders, could harm our business. The U.S. and foreign governments have enacted and regularly consider additional reform measures that affect health care coverage and costs. Private health plans may also seek to manage cost and utilization by implementing coverage and reimbursement limitations. Other payors, including managed care organizations, health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, government health administration authorities and private health insurers, seek price discounts or rebates in connection with the placement of our products on their formularies and, in some cases, may impose restrictions on access, coverage or pricing of particular drugs based on perceived value.
Within the U.S.
•Medicaid: Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that is administered by the states for low income and disabled beneficiaries. Under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, we are required to pay a rebate for each unit of product reimbursed by the state Medicaid programs. The amount of the rebate is established by law and is adjusted upward if the average manufacturer price (AMP) increases more than inflation (measured by the Consumer Price Index - Urban). The rebate amount is calculated each quarter based on our report of current AMP and best price for each of our products to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS). The requirements for calculating AMP and best price are complex. We are required to report any revisions to AMP or best price previously reported within a certain period, which revisions could affect our rebate liability for prior quarters. In addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the statute governing the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program provides for civil monetary penalties.
•Medicare: Medicare is a federal program that is administered by the federal government. The program covers individuals age 65 and over as well as those with certain disabilities. Medicare Part B generally covers drugs that must be administered by physicians or other health care practitioners, are provided in connection with certain durable medical equipment or are certain oral anti-cancer drugs and certain oral immunosuppressive drugs. Medicare Part B pays for such drugs under a payment methodology based on the average sales price (ASP) of the drugs. Manufacturers, including us, are required to provide ASP information to the CMS on a quarterly basis. The manufacturer-submitted information is used to calculate Medicare payment rates. If a manufacturer is found to have made a misrepresentation in the reporting of ASP, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties.
In November 2020 CMS issued an interim final rule that seeks to lower prescription drug costs by paying no more for certain Medicare Part B drugs than the lowest price paid for such drugs in certain other countries (the "most favored nation" rule). One of the drugs subject to the rule is TYSABRI. Under the rule, the lower payment rates for affected drugs would be phased in over a period of four years, beginning in 2021. Although the rule is being challenged by industry associations on a number of grounds, if the challenges are unsuccessful, the rule could harm our business. In addition, if the rule were expanded to include other drugs or to include Medicare Part D, such expansions could cause additional harm.
Medicare Part D provides coverage to enrolled Medicare patients for self-administered drugs (i.e., drugs that are not administered by a physician). Medicare Part D is administered by private prescription drug plans approved by the U.S. government. Each drug plan establishes its own Medicare Part D formulary for prescription drug coverage and pricing, which the drug plan may modify from time-to-time. The prescription drug plans negotiate pricing with manufacturers and pharmacies, and may condition formulary placement on the availability of manufacturer discounts. In addition, manufacturers, including us, are required to provide to the CMS a discount of up to 70% on brand name prescription drugs utilized by Medicare Part D beneficiaries when those beneficiaries reach the coverage gap in their drug benefits.
•Federal Agency Discounted Pricing: Our products are subject to discounted pricing when
23
Table of Contents
purchased by federal agencies via the Federal Supply Schedule (FSS). FSS participation is required for our products to be covered and reimbursed by the Veterans Administration (VA), Department of Defense, Coast Guard and Public Health Service (PHS). Coverage under Medicaid, Medicare and the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program is also conditioned upon FSS participation. FSS pricing is intended not to exceed the price that we charge our most-favored non-federal customer for a product. In addition, prices for drugs purchased by the VA, Department of Defense (including drugs purchased by military personnel and dependents through the TriCare retail pharmacy program), Coast Guard and PHS are subject to a cap on pricing equal to 76% of the non-federal average manufacturer price (non-FAMP). An additional discount applies if non-FAMP increases more than inflation (measured by the Consumer Price Index - Urban). In addition, if we fail to provide information timely or we are found to have knowingly submitted false information to the government, the governing statute provides for civil monetary penalties.
•340B Discounted Pricing: To maintain coverage of our products under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and Medicare Part B, we are required to extend significant discounts to certain covered entities that purchase products under Section 340B of the PHS pharmaceutical pricing program. Purchasers eligible for discounts include hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of financially needy patients, community health clinics and other entities that receive certain types of grants under the PHSA. For all of our products, we must agree to charge a price that will not exceed the amount determined under statute (the “ceiling price”) when we sell outpatient drugs to these covered entities. In addition, we may, but are not required to, offer these covered entities a price lower than the 340B ceiling price. The 340B discount formula is based on AMP and is generally similar to the level of rebates calculated under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program.
Outside the U.S.
Outside the U.S., our products are paid for by a variety of payors, with governments being the primary source of payment. Governments may determine or influence reimbursement of products and may also set prices or otherwise regulate pricing. Negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization of our products. Governments may use a variety of cost-containment measures to control the cost of products, including price cuts, mandatory rebates, value-based pricing and reference pricing
(i.e., referencing prices in other countries and using those reference prices to set a price). Budgetary pressures in many countries are continuing to cause governments to consider or implement various cost-containment measures, such as price freezes, increased price cuts and rebates and expanded generic substitution and patient cost-sharing.
Regulation Pertaining to Sales and Marketing
We are subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws generally prohibit a prescription drug manufacturer from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration to generate business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Although the specific provisions of these laws vary, their scope is generally broad and there may be no regulations, guidance or court decisions that clarify how the laws apply to particular industry practices. There is therefore a possibility that our practices might be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented, for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, and exclusion from federal health care programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). In the U.S., federal and state authorities are paying increased attention to enforcement of these laws within the pharmaceutical industry and private individuals have been active in alleging violations of the laws and bringing suits on behalf of the government under the federal civil False Claims Act. If we were subject to allegations concerning, or were convicted of violating, these laws, our business could be harmed.
Laws and regulations have been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers or require disclosure to the government and public of such interactions. The laws include federal “sunshine” provisions. The sunshine provisions apply to pharmaceutical manufacturers with products reimbursed under certain government programs and require those manufacturers to disclose annually to the federal government (for re-disclosure to the public) certain payments made to physicians and certain other healthcare practitioners or to
24
Table of Contents
teaching hospitals. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations contain ambiguous requirements. Given the lack of clarity in laws and their implementation, our reporting actions could be subject to the penalty provisions of the pertinent federal and state laws and regulations. Outside the U.S., other countries have implemented requirements for disclosure of financial interactions with healthcare providers and additional countries may consider or implement such laws.
Other Regulations
Foreign Anti-Corruption
We are subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising to pay or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA's definition of a foreign government official. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls.
The laws to which we are subject also include the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (Bribery Act), which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the U.K. generally will be subject to the Bribery Act. Penalties under the Bribery Act include significant fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances.
NIH Guidelines
We seek to conduct research at our U.S. facilities in compliance with the current U.S. National Institutes of Health Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules (NIH Guidelines). By local ordinance, we are required to, among other things, comply with the NIH Guidelines in relation to our facilities in Research Triangle Park (RTP), NC and are required to operate pursuant to certain permits.
Other Laws
Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to data privacy and protection, safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals and the purchase, storage, movement, import, export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances, including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents, used in connection with our research work are or may be applicable to our activities. Certain agreements entered into by us involving exclusive license rights may be subject to national or international antitrust regulatory control, the effect of which cannot be predicted. The extent of government regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.
The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted a comprehensive general data privacy regulation (GDPR) in 2016 to replace the current E.U. Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation. The GDPR took effect in May 2018 and governs the collection and use of personal data in the E.U. The GDPR, which is wide-ranging in scope, imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the security and confidentiality of the personal data, data breach notification and the use of third-party processors in connection with the processing of the personal data. The GDPR also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the E.U. to the U.S., provides an enforcement authority and imposes large penalties for noncompliance, including the potential for fines of up to €20.0 million or 4.0% of the annual global revenues of the infringer, whichever is greater.
Environmental Matters
We strive to comply in all material respects with applicable laws and regulations concerning the environment. While it is impossible to predict accurately the future costs associated with environmental compliance and potential remediation activities, compliance with environmental laws is not expected to require significant capital expenditures and has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our operations or competitive position.
Manufacturing
We seek to ensure an uninterrupted supply of medicines to patients around the world. To that end, we continually review our manufacturing capacity,
25
Table of Contents
capabilities, processes and facilities. We believe that our manufacturing facilities, together with the third-party contract manufacturing organizations we outsource to, currently provide sufficient capacity for our products and to Samsung Bioepis, our joint venture that develops, manufactures and markets biosimilar products, and other strategic contract manufacturing partners. In order to support our future growth and drug development pipeline, we are expanding our large molecule production capacity by building a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland. We expect this facility to be partially operational during the first half of 2021.
Manufacturing Facilities
Our drug substance manufacturing facility includes:
								
Facility		Drug Substance Manufactured
		
RTP, NC		AVONEX
PLEGRIDY
TYSABRI
Other*
* Other includes products manufactured for contract manufacturing partners.
In addition to our drug substance manufacturing facility, we have a drug product manufacturing facility and supporting infrastructure in RTP, NC, including a parenteral facility and an oral solid dose products manufacturing facility.
The parenteral facility adds capabilities and capacity for filling biologics into vials and is principally used for filling product candidates. The oral solid dose products facility can supplement our outsourced small molecule manufacturing capabilities, including the manufacture of TECFIDERA.
We also have an oligonucleotide synthesis manufacturing facility in RTP, NC. This facility gives us the capability to manufacture ASO drugs like SPINRAZA as well as our other ASO candidates currently in our clinical pipeline.
In order to support our future growth and drug development pipeline, we are building a large-scale biologics manufacturing facility in Solothurn, Switzerland, which we expect to be partially operational during the first half of 2021.
Genentech is responsible for all worldwide manufacturing activities for bulk RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA and has sourced the manufacture of certain bulk RITUXAN, RITUXAN HYCELA and GAZYVA requirements to a third party. Acorda supplies FAMPYRA to us pursuant to its supply agreement with Alkermes, Inc. and Ionis supplies the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for SPINRAZA. Alkermes currently supplies VUMERITY to us pursuant
to a supply agreement. In October 2019 we entered into a new supply agreement and amended our license and collaboration agreement with Alkermes. We have elected to initiate a technology transfer and, following a transition period, to manufacture VUMERITY or have VUMERITY manufactured by a third party we have engaged in exchange for paying an increased royalty rate to Alkermes on any portion of future worldwide net commercial sales of VUMERITY that is manufactured by us or our designee.
Third-Party Suppliers and Manufacturers
We principally use third parties to manufacture the API and the final product for our small molecule products and product candidates, including TECFIDERA and FUMADERM, and the final drug product for our large molecule products and, to a lesser extent, product candidates.
We source all of our fill-finish and the majority of final product assembly and storage operations for our products, along with a substantial part of our label and packaging operations, to a concentrated group of third-party contract manufacturing organizations. Raw materials, delivery devices, such as syringes and auto-injectors, and other supplies required for the production of our products and product candidates are procured from various third-party suppliers and manufacturers in quantities adequate to meet our needs. Continuity of supply of such raw materials, devices and supplies is assured using a strategy of dual sourcing where possible or by a risk-based inventory strategy. Our third-party service providers, suppliers and manufacturers may be subject to routine cGMP inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions and undergo assessment and certification by our quality management group.
Human Capital
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 9,100 employees worldwide. Approximately 5,675 employees were employed in the U.S. and approximately 3,425 employees were employed in foreign countries.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
At Biogen, prejudice, racism and intolerance are unacceptable. We are committed to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) across all aspects of our organization, including hiring, promotion and development practices. As of December 31, 2020, 28% of Biogen’s director-level and above positions were held by ethnic or racial minorities in the U.S. Our policies and practices are global, but the laws in many countries outside the U.S. do not permit us to collect ethnic or racial data on our employees. Globally, 48%
26
Table of Contents
of Biogen’s positions at director-level and above were held by women.
In 2020 we introduced an updated DE&I strategy that outlines actionable steps to deepen our commitment across the business, building upon a strong foundation. This plan includes a four-part strategy to build our talent and leadership pipeline, improve health outcomes for the African American, Black, Latinx and other minority communities in the disease areas we treat and expand sourcing with minority-owned businesses. We plan to create greater awareness and capability in our organization through leadership accountability and transparency. To establish and progress this strategy, we rely on a cross-company governing body of employees known as the Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Strategic Council.
We are honored to be recognized as a company of choice. We scored 100.0% on the 2020 Disability Equality Index, which measures our policies and practices related to disability inclusion, for the third consecutive year. Additionally, for the seventh consecutive year, we were recognized as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights Campaign, scoring 100.0% on their Corporate Equality Index.
Philosophy on Pay Equity
We are committed to ensuring our employees receive equal pay for equal work. We establish components and ranges of compensation based on market and benchmark data. Within this context, we strive to pay all employees equitably within a reasonable range, taking into consideration factors such as role; market data; internal equity; job location; relevant experience; and individual, business unit and company performance. In addition, we are committed to providing flexible benefits designed to allow our diverse global workforce to have reward opportunities that meet their varied needs so that they are inspired to perform their best on behalf of patients and stockholders each day.
We regularly review our compensation practices and analyze the equity of compensation decisions, for individual employees and our workforce as a whole. If we identify employees with pay gaps, we review and take appropriate action to ensure fidelity between our stated philosophy and actions.
We institute measures, such as communications and trainings, to recognize, interrupt and prevent bias in hiring, performance management and compensation decisions and we provide resources to further develop managers and leaders to help them make equitable decisions about pay.
Talent and Development
Our employees are encouraged to take advantage of an array of professional development resources. Managers coach employees for performance, and also engage in employee development discussions to support growth and learning.
We provide our employees access to over 8,000 on-demand learning modules in English, French, German, Spanish, Japanese and Portuguese. Additionally, we have a wide selection of courses and trainings that are offered through Biogen University, our global validated learning management system.
To create and sustain a workplace as diverse and inclusive as the patients we serve, we offer programs that invest in our talent pipeline and in our current leaders, including:
•Activate, Reflect and Co-Create: Preparing top talent for the rigors of executive roles.
•Women’s Leadership Program: Addressing the unique challenges faced by female leaders to increase influence and impact.
•Executive Leadership Retreat: Immersing leaders in topics designed to help them shape culture and build resilience.
•The Partnership, Inc's BioDiversity Fellows Program: To continue to bolster our talent pipeline with a diverse mix of leaders, high potential, mid-career, underrepresented minorities participate in this program, which we helped create.
Our Employee Resource Networks (ERNs) provide invaluable opportunities for employees to share knowledge and build connections. Our current ERNs include:
•IGNITE: Brings together early-career professionals and their advocates.
•AccessAbility: Supports employees with disabilities and employees who are caretakers of individuals with disabilities.
•Biogen Veterans Network: Encourages veterans and allies of veterans to connect and support one another.
•Mosaic: Fosters awareness and appreciation of different cultural backgrounds, in addition to promoting networking and development opportunities for members.
•ReachOUT: Supports a best-in-class working environment for LGBTQ employees and embraces all LGBTQ employees and their allies.
27
Table of Contents
•Women’s Innovation Network: Creates networking, mentoring and learning opportunities for women and allies worldwide.
•ourIMPACT: Advances climate, health and equity at work, in employees' personal lives and in the communities where we live and work.
Creating a culture where all colleagues feel supported and valued is paramount to our corporate mission. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has led to unique challenges, and we are striving to ensure the health, safety and general well-being of our employees. We continue to evolve our programs to meet our employees’ health and wellness needs, which we believe is essential to attract and retain employees of the highest caliber. For example, we have refreshed our flexible working arrangement policies to allow for more flexibility around work hours to help employees balance the demands of their work and home lives, shifted many of our on-site wellness services to virtual, including virtual behavior health, nutrition, fitness and overall well-being classes and counseling, rolled out the Headspace meditation app globally at no cost, provided workshops and programming to help employees cope with stress, isolation and building resilience, along with financial planning workshops and counseling sessions, expanded our child- and back-up care services to meet the growing childcare needs of our employees and provided additional holidays and time off for recharging, voting and volunteering.
Employee surveys
We utilize an employee survey program to pulse employees through email and mobile apps as well as provide an opportunity for commentary and facilitate feedback to questions. The survey is designed to empower managers and leaders with anonymous information on their practices related to building culture, performance and an engaged workforce, allowing them to create plans and measure efficacy for continuous improvement. We care deeply about employee feedback and are building an analytics community across Human Resources to bring more rigor and sophistication to the collection and analysis of employee opinions. We use their perspectives to guide us to take actions that improve engagement and support and help maintain our reputation as a great place to work for all of our employees.
Succession planning
Each year we conduct a talent review across our global enterprise that includes, among other important topics, a review of succession plans for many of our roles. To help ensure the long-term continuity of our business, we actively manage the development of
talent to fill the roles that are most critical to the on-going success of our company. In addition, each year our Board of Directors reviews the succession plan for our executives.
Workplace Health and Safety
The well-being of our employees is a top priority, and we believe each and every employee plays a role in creating a safe and healthy workplace. Our employees have varied roles and functions, which is why we empower them to promote a safe working environment, regardless of whether work happens in the lab, in an office or in a manufacturing plant. Our policies and practices are intended to protect not only our employees, but also the surrounding communities in which we operate.
In 2020 we continued to make significant progress integrating Human Performance into our Environment, Health and Safety programs. We believe that, when it comes to safety, workers are part of the solution. We encourage employees to collaboratively engage in proactive problem solving through practices such as Open Reporting and Work Observation and Risk Conversations. We also utilize “After Action Reviews” following the completion of a project. These reviews enable us to not only focus on areas for improvement, but also to learn and apply good practices from what goes well. By engaging and empowering our employees through such programs, we believe that we can help change how the entire industry approaches safety performance and risk management.
28
Table of Contents
Information about our Executive Officers (as of February 3, 2021)
																				
Officer		Current Position		Age		Year Joined Biogen
Michel Vounatsos		Chief Executive Officer		59		2016
Susan H. Alexander		Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary		64		2006
Michael R. McDonnell		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer		57		2020
Alphonse Galdes, Ph.D.		Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology		68		1995
Ginger Gregory, Ph.D.		Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer		53		2017
Chirfi Guindo		Executive Vice President, Global Product Strategy and Commercialization		55		2017
Robin C. Kramer		Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer		55		2018
Alfred W. Sandrock, Jr., M.D., Ph.D.		Executive Vice President, Research and Development		63		1998
					
Michel Vounatsos
Experience
Mr. Vounatsos has served as our Chief Executive Officer and as a member of our Board of Directors since January 2017. Prior to that, from April 2016 to December 2016, Mr. Vounatsos served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer. Prior to joining Biogen, Mr. Vounatsos spent 20 years at Merck & Co., Inc. (Merck), a pharmaceutical company, where he most recently served as President, Primary Care, Customer Business Line and Merck Customer Centricity. In this role, he led Merck’s global primary care business unit, a role which encompassed Merck’s cardiology-metabolic, general medicine, women’s health and biosimilars groups and developed and instituted a strategic framework for enhancing the company’s relationships with key constituents, including the most significant providers, payors and retailers and the world’s largest governments. Mr. Vounatsos previously held leadership positions across Europe and in China for Merck. Prior to that, Mr. Vounatsos held management positions at Ciba-Geigy, a pharmaceutical company. Mr. Vounatsos currently serves on the advisory board of Tsinghua University School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, on the Supervisory Board of Liryc, the Electrophysiology and Heart Modeling Institute at the University of Bordeaux, on the board of directors of N-Lorem Foundation and as a member of the MIT Presidential CEO Advisory Board.
Public Company Boards
l	PerkinElmer, Inc., a global scientific technology and life science research company
Education
l	Universite Victor Segalen, Bordeaux II, France, C.S.C.T. Certificate in Medicine
l	HEC School of Management - Paris, M.B.A.
					
Susan H. Alexander
Experience
Ms. Alexander has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since April 2018. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal, Corporate Services and Secretary from March 2017 to March 2018, as our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary from December 2011 to March 2017 and as our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from 2006 to December 2011. Prior to joining Biogen, Ms. Alexander served as the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of PAREXEL International Corporation, a biopharmaceutical services company, from 2003 to January 2006. From 2001 to 2003 Ms. Alexander served as General Counsel of IONA Technologies, a software company. From 1995 to 2001 Ms. Alexander served as Counsel at Cabot Corporation, a specialty chemicals and performance materials company. Prior to that, Ms. Alexander was a partner at the law firms of Hinckley, Allen & Snyder and Fine & Ambrogne.
Public Company Boards
l	Invacare Corporation, a medical and healthcare product company
Education
l	Wellesley College, B.A.
l	Boston University School of Law, J.D.
29
Table of Contents
					
Michael R. McDonnell
Experience
Mr. McDonnell has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2020. Prior to joining Biogen, Mr. McDonnell served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of IQVIA Holdings Inc., a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions and contract research services to the life sciences industry, from December 2015 until July 2020. Prior to that, Mr. McDonnell served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Intelsat, a leading global provider of satellite services, from November 2008 to December 2015, as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MCG Capital Corporation, a publicly-held commercial finance company, from September 2004 until October 2008 and as MCG Capital Corporation’s Chief Operating Officer from August 2006 until October 2008. Before joining MCG Capital Corporation, Mr. McDonnell served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for EchoStar Communications Corporation (f/k/a DISH Network Corporation), a direct-to-home satellite television operator, from July 2004 until August 2004 and as its Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from August 2000 to July 2004. Mr. McDonnell spent 14 years at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, including 4 years as a partner. Mr. McDonnell has a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Georgetown University and is a certified public accountant.
Education
l	Georgetown University, B.S. Accounting
					
Alphonse Galdes, Ph.D.
Experience
Dr. Galdes has served as our Executive Vice President, Pharmaceutical Operations and Technology since September 2019. Since joining Biogen in 1995, Dr. Galdes has held several senior executive positions, including most recently as Senior Vice President, Asset Development and Portfolio Management from November 2015 to September 2019 and Senior Vice President, Technical Development from October 2010 to November 2015. Dr. Galdes was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University and performed post-doctoral research work at the Department of Biological Chemistry at Harvard Medical School.
Education
l	University of Malta, B.Sc. Chemistry and Biology
l	University of Malta, M.Sc. Biochemistry
l	Oxford University, Ph.D. Biochemistry
					
Ginger Gregory, Ph.D.
Experience
Dr. Gregory has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since July 2017. Prior to joining Biogen, Dr. Gregory served as Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Shire PLC, a global specialty biopharmaceutical company, from February 2014 to April 2017. Prior to that, Dr. Gregory held executive-level human resources positions for several multinational companies across a variety of industries, including Dunkin’ Brands Group Inc., a restaurant holding company, where she served as Chief Human Resource Officer, Novartis AG, a pharmaceutical company, where she was the division head of Human Resources for Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, Novartis Consumer Health and Novartis Institutes of BioMedical Research and Novo Nordisk A/S, a pharmaceutical company, where she served as Senior Vice President, Corporate People & Organization at the company’s headquarters in Copenhagen, Denmark. Earlier in her career, Dr. Gregory held a variety of human resources generalist and specialist positions at BMS, a pharmaceutical company, and served as a consultant with Booz Allen & Hamilton, an information technology consulting company, in the area of organization change and effectiveness.
Education
l	University of Massachusetts, B.A. Psychology
l	The George Washington University, Ph.D. Psychology
30
Table of Contents
					
Chirfi Guindo
Experience
Mr. Guindo has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Product Strategy and Commercialization since February 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Guindo served as our Executive Vice President and Head of Global Marketing, Market Access and Customer Innovation from November 2017 to February 2019. Prior to joining Biogen, Mr. Guindo spent 27 years in the global pharmaceutical industry and held several leadership positions at Merck, a pharmaceutical company, in Canada, the U.S., France, Africa and the Netherlands. He worked in several disciplines including Finance, Sales & Marketing, General Management and Global Strategy/Product Development in specialty, acute and hospital care. Most recently Mr. Guindo was Vice President and Managing Director and President and Managing Director of Merck Canada from October 2014 to November 2017. From January 2011 to October 2014 he was Vice President and General Manager, Global HIV Franchise at Merck.
Education
l	Ecole Central de Paris (France), Engineering
l	Stern School of Business, New York University, M.B.A. Finance/Economics
					
Robin C. Kramer
Experience
Ms. Kramer has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since December 2020. Prior to that, Ms. Kramer served as our Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer from November 2018 to December 2020. Prior to joining Biogen, Ms. Kramer served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of Hertz Global Holdings, Inc., a car rental company, from May 2014 to November 2018. Prior to that, Ms. Kramer was an audit partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP (Deloitte), a professional services firm, from 2007 to 2014, including serving in Deloitte's National Office Accounting Standards and Communications Group from 2007 to 2010. From 2005 to 2007 Ms. Kramer served as Chief Accounting Officer of Fisher Scientific International, Inc., a laboratory supply and biotechnology company, and from 2004 to 2005 Ms. Kramer served as Director, External Reporting, Accounting and Control for the Gillette Company, a personal care company. Ms. Kramer also held partner positions in the public accounting firms of Ernst & Young LLP and Arthur Anderson LLP. Ms. Kramer is a licensed certified public accountant (CPA) in Massachusetts. She is a member of the Massachusetts Society of CPAs and the American Institute of CPAs. Ms. Kramer currently serves on the board of directors of Samsung Bioepis and on the board of directors of the Center for Women and Enterprise. Ms. Kramer previously served as a Board Member for the Massachusetts State Board of Accountancy from September 2011 to December 2015 and Probus Insurance Company Europe DAC from 2016 to 2018.
Public Company Boards
l	Armata Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a biotechnology company
Education
l	Salem State University, B.B.A. Accounting
					
Alfred W. Sandrock, Jr., M.D., Ph.D.
Experience
Dr. Sandrock has served as our Executive Vice President, Research and Development since September 2019. Prior to that, Dr. Sandrock served as our Chief Medical Officer from October 2017 to January 2020, as our Executive Vice President, Chief Medical Officer Neurology and Neurodegeneration from October 2015 to October 2017, as our Chief Medical Officer and Group Senior Vice President from April 2013 to October 2015 and as our Chief Medical Officer and Senior Vice President of Development Sciences from February 2012 to April 2013. Prior to that, Dr. Sandrock held several other senior executive positions since joining Biogen in 1998, including Senior Vice President of Neurology Research and Development and Vice President of Clinical Development, Neurology.
Education
l	Stanford University, B.A. Human Biology
l	Harvard Medical School, M.D.
l	Harvard University, Ph.D. Neurobiology
l	Massachusetts General Hospital, internship in Medicine, residency and chief residency in Neurology and clinical fellowship in Neuromuscular Disease and Clinical Neurophysiology (electromyography)
Available Information
Our principal executive offices are located at 225 Binney Street, Cambridge, MA 02142 and our telephone number is (617) 679-2000. Our website address is www.biogen.com. We make available free of charge through the Investors section of our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
31
Table of Contents
electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We include our website address in this report only as an inactive textual reference and do not intend it to be an active link to our website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this report.
32
