Baker Hughes Company (Baker Hughes, the Company, we, us, or our) is an energy technology company with a diversified portfolio of technologies and services that span the energy and industrial value chain. We conduct business in more than 120 countries. The Company was formed in July 2017 as the result of a combination between Baker Hughes Incorporated (BHI) and the oil and gas business (GE O&G) of General Electric Company (GE) (the Transactions). As a result of the Transactions, substantially all of the business of GE O&G and of BHI was transferred to a subsidiary of the Company, Baker Hughes Holdings LLC (BHH LLC). In 2019, we accelerated our separation efforts from GE and in September 2019, GE sold down its stake in Baker Hughes to below 50%. In July 2020, GE launched a program to fully divest of its ownership in Baker Hughes over approximately three years. As of December 31, 2020, GE's economic interest in BHH LLC was 30.1%.
OUR VISION
With the breadth of our portfolio, leading technology, and unique partnership models, we are positioned to deliver outcome-based solutions across the industry. By integrating health, safety & environment (HSE) into everything we do, we protect our people, our customers, and the environment. We believe in doing the right thing every time, and delivering the best quality and safest products, services, processes, solutions, and technologies in the industry.
The oil and gas macroeconomic environment continues to be dynamic. We believe the world’s reliance on hydrocarbons will not disappear, and oil and gas will continue to play necessary roles in meeting global energy demand. At the same time, the transition to new energy sources is accelerating. We believe the industry is going through a transformation that requires a change in how we work. Irrespective of commodity prices, our customers are focused on reducing both capital and operating expenditures. Our customers expect new models and solutions to deliver sustainable productivity improvements and leverage economies of scale, with a lower carbon footprint. That is why our strategy is focused on improving our core competitiveness and delivering higher-productivity solutions today, while positioning for the energy transition. Our strategy is based on three key pillars:
•Transform the core: We are transforming our current business to improve margins and cash flow, which we are achieving through portfolio rationalization, cost improvements, and new business models.
•Invest for growth: We are driving organic and inorganic growth in high potential segments where we have a strong position, including industrial power and processes, industrial asset management, non-metallics, and chemicals.
•Positioning for new energy frontiers: We are making strategic investments to drive the decarbonization of energy and industry, including hydrogen, geothermal, carbon capture, utilization and storage, and energy storage.
We believe we have an important role to play in society as an industry leader and partner.  We view environmental, social, and governance (ESG) as a key lever to transform the performance of our company and our industry. In January 2019, we made a commitment to reduce CO2 equivalent (eq.) emissions from our operations by 50% by 2030, achieving net-zero CO2 eq. emissions by 2050.  We are investing in our portfolio of advanced technologies to assist customers with reducing their carbon footprint.
We reported in our 2019 Corporate Social Responsibility report a 31% reduction in operating emissions since 2012 through a commitment to new technology and operational efficiencies. We will continue to employ a broad range of emissions reduction initiatives across manufacturing, supply chain, logistics, energy sourcing and generation. We have established a global additive manufacturing technology network with a mission to bring commercial-scale production closer to customers, reducing transportation impact and associated emissions.
We expect to benefit from the following:
•Scope and scale: We have global presence and a broad, diversified portfolio. Our products, services, and expertise serve the upstream, midstream/liquefied natural gas (LNG) and downstream sectors of the oil and

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 1

gas industry, as well as broader chemical and industrial segments. We deliver through our four product companies (also referred to as operating segments): Oilfield Services; Oilfield Equipment; Turbomachinery & Process Solutions; and Digital Solutions as discussed below under "Products and Services," and each are among the top four providers in their respective segments.
•Technology: Our culture is built on a heritage of innovation and invention in research and development, with complementary capabilities. Technology remains a differentiator for us, and a key enabler to drive the efficiency and productivity gains our customers need. We also have a range of technologies that support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. We remain committed to investing in our products and services to maintain our leadership position across our offerings, including $595 million research & development spend in 2020.
•Digital capabilities: We expect to benefit from the emerging demand for artificial intelligence (AI) based solutions as part of our customers’ digital transformation initiatives. Launched in 2019, our partnership with C3.ai is enabling us to deliver AI that is faster, easier, and more scalable to drive outcomes for our customers. We are delivering existing technology to oil and gas customers and collaborating on new AI applications specific for oil and gas outcomes. We are also deploying these applications internally to improve operational efficiencies, specifically for inventory optimization. We are also leveraging advanced manufacturing techniques to transform our supply chain and design new parts and components that ultimately will lower costs and operational carbon emissions.
•Energy transition solutions: We are positioned to support our customers' efforts to reduce their carbon footprint with a range of emissions-reduction products and services. This includes more efficient power generation and compression technology that reduces carbon emissions. In 2020, we acquired Compact Carbon Capture, a technology development company specializing in carbon capture solutions, to advance industrial decarbonization. We also have a range of inspection and sensor technology that can monitor and help reduce flaring and emissions.
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We are an energy technology company that has a diverse portfolio of equipment and service capabilities that span the energy and industrial value chain. Our four product companies, or operating segments, are organized based on the nature of our markets and customers and consist of similar products and services.
We sell to our customers through direct and indirect channels. Our primary sales channel is through our direct sales force, which has a strong regional focus with local teams close to the customer, who are able to draw support from centers of excellence in each of our major product lines. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue in the current year. Our products and services are sold in highly competitive markets and the competitive environment varies by product line. See discussion below by segment.
Oilfield Services
The Oilfield Services (OFS) segment designs and manufactures products and provides services for onshore and offshore oil & gas operations across the lifecycle of a well, including exploration, drilling, evaluation, completion, production, intervention, and abandonment.
OFS products and services include drill bits; drilling services, including directional drilling, measurement-while-drilling, and logging-while-drilling; drilling fluids; wireline services; completions, including tools, systems, and fluids; pressure pumping; well intervention; artificial lift systems; oilfield and industrial chemicals; and integrated well services. These offerings are enabled and enhanced by reservoir technical services and digital technologies that include modeling, remote capabilities, and automation.
OFS evaluation capabilities and drilling technologies provide greater understanding of the subsurface to enable smoother, faster drilling and precise wellbore placement, leading to improved recovery and project economics. With broad completions portfolio, drawing from a wide range of artificial lift technologies, production chemicals, and production optimization software, OFS can help maximize production while simultaneously lowering production costs. OFS also provides integrated well services to plan and execute projects ranging from well construction and production through well abandonment.

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 2


OFS customers include the large integrated major and super-major oil and natural gas companies, U.S. and international independent oil and natural gas companies, and the national or state-owned oil companies as well as oilfield service companies.
OFS believes that its principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product and service quality, efficiency, reliability and availability, HSE standards, technical proficiency, and price. OFS products and services are sold in highly competitive markets, and revenue and earnings are affected by changes in commodity prices; fluctuations in levels of drilling, workover and completion activity in major markets; general economic conditions; foreign currency exchange fluctuations; and governmental regulations. While OFS may have contracts that include multiple well projects and that may extend over a period of time ranging from two to four years, its services and products are generally provided on a well-by-well basis. Most contracts cover pricing of the products and services but do not necessarily establish an obligation to use OFS products and services. OFS competitors include Schlumberger, Halliburton, and ChampionX.
Oilfield Equipment
The Oilfield Equipment (OFE) segment provides a broad portfolio of mission critical products and services utilized during drilling and over the life of a field. These products and services are required to facilitate the safe and reliable control and flow of hydrocarbons from the wellhead to the production facilities. The OFE portfolio has solutions for the subsea, offshore surface and onshore operating environments. OFE designs and manufactures subsea and surface drilling and production systems and provides a full range of services related to onshore and offshore drilling and production operations.
OFE products and services include subsea and surface drilling equipment, subsea production systems (SPS), flexible pipe systems for subsea flowlines, risers and onshore pipes, surface and subsea wellheads, surface pressure control solutions, subsea well intervention solutions and related service solutions. The OFE drilling product line offers blowout preventers, control systems, marine drilling risers, wellhead connectors, diverters, and related services for floaters, jack-ups, and land drilling rigs. OFE’s subsea portfolio includes subsea trees, control systems, manifolds, connection systems, wellheads, specialty connectors & pipes for all environments, installation and decommissioning solutions, and related services for Life of Field solutions and well intervention. OFE also provides advanced offshore flexible pipe products including risers, flowlines, fluid transfer lines and subsea jumpers, for floating production facilities across a range of operating environments. In addition, OFE offers a full range of onshore wellhead products, valves, actuators, related services, and also designs, manufactures and markets spoolable pipe systems including reinforced thermoplastic pipe (RTP) for exploration and production in the onshore upstream and midstream segments. OFE also offers a range of comprehensive, worldwide services for installation, technical support, well access through subsea intervention systems, operating resources and tools, offshore products and brownfield asset integrity solutions.
OFE customers are oil and gas operators, drilling contractors and engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractors seeking to undertake new subsea projects, mid-life upgrades and maintenance, well interventions and workover campaigns. OFE strives for a leadership position within the 20 Kpsi subsea drilling systems, large-bore gas fields, deepwater and ultra-deepwater oil and gas fields and fields with long tieback distances. Additionally, through Subsea Connect, OFE offers integrated solutions to our customers.
OFE believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product and service quality, reliability and on time delivery, health, safety and environmental standards, technical proficiency, availability of spare parts, and price. Its strong track record of innovation enables OFE to enter into long-term, performance-based service agreements with our customers. In the SPS product line, the primary competitors of OFE include Schlumberger, TechnipFMC, Aker Solutions ASA, and Dril-Quip Inc. In the offshore flexible pipe product line, main competitors include TechnipFMC and NOV. In the drilling product line, competitors include NOV and Schlumberger.

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 3

Turbomachinery & Process Solutions
The Turbomachinery & Process Solutions (TPS) segment provides equipment and related services for mechanical-drive, compression and power-generation applications across the oil and gas industry and energy industry, the on-and-offshore, LNG, pipeline and gas storage, refining, petrochemical, distributed gas, flow and process control and industrial segments. TPS is a leader in designing, manufacturing, maintaining and upgrading rotating equipment across the entire oil and gas value chain.
TPS products and services include drivers, driven equipment, flow control, and turnkey solutions. Drivers are comprised of aero-derivative gas turbines, heavy-duty gas turbines, small- to medium-sized industrial gas turbines, steam turbines, and hot gas and turbo expanders. TPS’ driven equipment consists of generators, reciprocating, centrifugal, zero emission and subsea compressors. TPS’ flow portfolio includes pumps, valves, regulators, control systems, and other flow and process control technologies. As part of its turnkey solutions, TPS offers power generation and gas compression modules, waste heat/energy/pressure recovery, energy storage, modularized small and large liquefaction plants, carbon capture, and storage/use facilities. TPS also offers genuine spare parts, system upgrades, conversion solutions, digital advanced services and turnkey solutions to refurbish, rejuvenate and, improve the output from a single machine up to an entire plant.
TPS’ value proposition is founded on its turbomachinery and flow control technology, a unique competence to integrate gas turbines and compressors in the most critical natural gas applications, best-in-class manufacturing and testing capabilities, reliable maintenance and service operations, and innovative real-time diagnostics and control systems, enabling condition-based maintenance and increasing overall productivity, availability, efficiency, and reliability for oil and gas assets. TPS differentiates itself from competitors with its expertise in technology and project management, local presence and partnerships, as well as the deep industry know-how of its teams to provide fully integrated equipment and services solutions with state-of-art technology from design and manufacture through to operations.
TPS’ products enable customers to increase upstream oil and gas production, liquefy natural gas, compress gas for transport via pipelines, generate electricity, store gas and energy, refine oil and gas and produce petrochemicals, while minimizing both operational and environmental risks in the most extreme service conditions and enhancing overall efficiency. TPS products are also configurable for hydrogen and blended fuels. TPS’ customers are upstream, midstream and downstream, onshore and offshore, and small to large scale. Midstream and downstream customers include LNG plants, pipelines, storage facilities, refineries, and a wide range of industrial and EPC companies. As a supplier of turbomachinery equipment and solutions, TPS uses technology to help customers reduce their environmental impact by making their operations more efficient and enhancing their productivity, reducing emissions through flaring, venting and fuel combustion and introducing new technologies that improve their ability to reduce unwanted fugitive emissions.
TPS believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are product range (or power range measured in megawatts) coverage, efficiency, product reliability and availability, service capabilities, references, emissions, and price. Our primary equipment competitors include Siemens Energy, Solar (a Caterpillar company), MAN Turbo, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, and Elliot Ebara. In the valves and pumps product line, competitors include Emerson, Flowserve, Metso and Sulzer. Our aftermarket equipment product line competes with independent service providers such as Masaood John Brown, EthosEnergy, Sulzer, MTU, and Chromalloy.
Digital Solutions
The Digital Solutions segment combines sophisticated hardware technologies with enterprise-class software products and analytics to connect industrial assets, providing customers with the data, safety and security needed to reliably and efficiently improve operations.
DS products and services include condition monitoring, industrial controls, non-destructive technologies, measurement, sensing, and pipeline solutions. Condition monitoring technologies include the Bently Nevada® and System 1® brands, providing rack-based vibration monitoring equipment and sensors primarily for power generation and oil and gas operations. The DS Waygate Technologies product line includes non-destructive testing technology, software, and services, including industrial radiography, ultrasonic sensors, testing machines and gauges, NDT film, and remote visual inspection.

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 4

The DS Process and Pipeline Services product line (PPS) provides pre-commissioning and maintenance services to improve throughput and asset integrity for process facilities and pipelines while achieving the highest returns possible. The PPS product line also provides inline inspection solutions to support pipeline integrity and includes nitrogen, bolting, torqueing and leak detection services, as well as the world’s largest fleet of air compressors to dry pipelines after hydrotesting. The DS Panametrics, Druck, and Reuter-Stokes product lines provide instrumentation and sensor-based technologies to better detect and analyze pressure, flow, gas, moisture, radiation, and related conditions. The DS Nexus Controls product line provides comprehensive, scalable industrial controls systems, safety systems (SIL), hardware, software cybersecurity solutions and services.
DS helps companies monitor and optimize industrial assets while mitigating risk and boosting safety, by providing performance management, and condition and asset health monitoring. It also provides customers the technical capabilities to drive enterprise wide digital transformation of business processes and to focus on better production outcomes along the entire oil & gas value chain and adjacent industries, using sensors, services and inspections to connect industrial assets to the Industrial Internet. The DS software business is built to handle data at an industrial scale, giving customers the power to innovate, and make faster, more confident decisions to maximize performance.
DS believes that the principal competitive factors in the industries and markets it serves are superior product technology, service, quality, and reliability. DS competes across a wide range of industries, including oil & gas, power generation, aerospace, and light and heavy industrials. The products and services are sold in a diversified, fragmented arena with a broad range of competitors. Although no single company competes directly with DS across all its product lines, various companies compete in one or more products. Competitors include Emerson, Honeywell Process Solutions, Olympus, Schneider Electric, and Siemens.
CONTRACTS
We conduct our business under various types of contracts in the upstream, midstream, and downstream segments, including fixed-fee or turnkey contracts, transactional agreements for products and services, and long-term aftermarket service agreements.
We enjoy stable relationships with many of our customers based on long-term project contracts and master service agreements. Several of those contracts require us to commit to a fixed price based on the customer’s technical specifications with little or no legal relief available due to changes in circumstances, such as changes in local laws, or industry or geopolitical events. In some cases, failure to deliver products or perform services within contractual commitments may lead to liquidated damages claims. We seek to mitigate these exposures through close collaboration with our customers.
We strive to negotiate the terms of our customer contracts consistent with what we consider to be industry best practices. Our customers typically indemnify us for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of their employees and often their contractors; the loss of or damage to their facility and equipment, and often that of their contractors; pollution originating from their equipment or facility; and all liabilities related to the well and subsurface operations, including loss or damage to the well or reservoir, loss of well control, fire, explosion, or any uncontrolled flow of oil or gas. Conversely, we typically indemnify our customers for certain claims arising from: the injury or death of our employees and sometimes that of our subcontractors; the loss of or damage to our equipment; and pollution originating from our equipment above the surface of the earth while under our control. Where the above indemnities do not apply or are not consistent with industry best practices, we typically provide a capped indemnity for damages caused to the customer by our negligence, and include an overall limitation of liability clause. It is also our general practice to include a limitation of liability for consequential loss, including loss of profits and loss of revenue, in all customer contracts.
Our indemnity structure may not protect us in every case. Certain U.S. states have enacted oil and natural gas specific anti-indemnity statutes that can void the allocation of liability agreed to in a contract. State law, laws in countries outside the U.S., public policy, or the negotiated terms of a customer contract may also limit indemnity obligations in the event of the gross negligence or willful misconduct. We sometimes contract with customers that are not the end user of our products. It is our practice to seek to obtain an indemnity from our customer for any end-user claims, but this is not always possible. Similarly, government agencies and other third parties, including in some cases other contractors of our customers, may make claims in respect of which we are not indemnified and

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 5

for which responsibility is assessed proportionate to fault. We have an established process to review any risk deviations from our standard contracting practices.
The Company maintains a commercial general liability insurance policy program that covers against certain operating hazards, including product liability claims and personal injury claims, as well as certain limited environmental pollution claims for damage to a third party or its property arising out of contact with pollution for which the Company is liable; however, clean up and well control costs are not covered by such program. All of the insurance policies purchased by the Company are subject to deductible and/or self-insured retention amounts for which we are responsible for payment, specific terms, conditions, limitations, and exclusions. There can be no assurance that the nature and amount of Company insurance will be sufficient to fully indemnify us against liabilities related to our business.
ORDERS AND REMAINING PERFORMANCE OBLIGATIONS
Remaining performance obligations (RPO), a defined term under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), are unfilled customer orders for products and product services excluding any purchase order that provides the customer with the ability to cancel or terminate without incurring a substantive penalty, even if the likelihood of cancellation is remote based on historical experience. For product services, an amount is included for the expected life of the contract.
We recognized orders of $20.7 billion, $27.0 billion and $23.9 billion in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the remaining performance obligations totaled $23.4 billion, $22.9 billion and $21.0 billion, respectively.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
We engage in research and development activities directed primarily toward the development of new products, services, technology, and other solutions, as well as the improvement of existing products, services and the design of specialized products to meet specific customer needs. We continue to invest across all operating segments in products to enhance safety, develop capability, improve performance, and reduce costs aligned with our operational strategy. Through our Enterprise Technology Centers we also invest heavily in fundamental technologies such as materials, additive manufacturing, artificial intelligence/machine learning and other digital technologies such as computer vision, data science and edge computing.
In OFS, we invested in a range of formation evaluation capabilities as well as drilling, completions, and production hardware. In OFE, the recent focus has been to expand capability into deeper water, longer offsets and at higher pressures as well as modular designs that allow for simpler and more digitally integrated subsea systems. In TPS, we continue to invest in the energy transition with our latest generation of gas turbines for energy efficiency and reduced carbon footprint such as our LM9000TM and Nova LTTM products, as well as our process and safety valve business bringing new digital applications including analytics to our customers. DS continues to invest in advanced digital solutions designed to improve the efficiency, reliability, and safety of oil & gas, aerospace, energy, and broader industrial production and operations. This includes our new Orbit 60 Bently Nevada product for critical asset monitoring used extensively in turbine systems – wind, hydro, gas-turbines, etc.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Our technology, brands and other intellectual property (IP) rights are important elements of our business. We rely on patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as non-disclosure and employee invention assignment agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. Many patents and patent applications comprise the Baker Hughes portfolio and are owned by us. Other patents and patent applications applicable to our products and services are licensed to us by GE and, in some cases, third parties. We do not consider any individual patent to be material to our business operations.
In connection with the Master Agreement Framework, GE entered into an amended and restated IP cross-license agreement (the IP Cross-License Agreement) with BHH LLC. GE agreed to perpetually license to BHH LLC the right to use certain intellectual property owned or controlled by GE pursuant to the terms of the IP Cross-License Agreement. BHH LLC in return, also agreed to perpetually license to GE the right to use certain intellectual property rights owned or controlled by BHH LLC pursuant to the terms of the IP Cross-License

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 6

Agreement. This IP Cross-License Agreement allows both parties to have continued and permanent rights to commercially utilize certain intellectual property of the other pursuant to the terms of the agreement.
We follow a policy of seeking patent and trademark protection in numerous countries and regions throughout the world for products and methods that appear to have commercial significance. We believe that maintenance, protection and enforcement of our patents, trademarks, and related intellectual property rights is central to the conduct of our business, and aggressively pursue protection of our intellectual property rights against infringement, misappropriation or other violation worldwide as we deem appropriate to protect our business. Additionally, we consider the quality and timely delivery of our products, the service we provide to our customers, and the technical knowledge and skills of our personnel to be other important components of the portfolio of capabilities and assets supporting our ability to compete.
SEASONALITY
Our operations can be affected by seasonal events, which can temporarily affect the delivery and performance of our products and services, and our customers' budgetary cycles. Examples of seasonal events that can impact our business are set forth below:
•Adverse weather conditions, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, may interrupt or curtail our coastal and offshore drilling, or our customers’ operations, cause supply disruptions and result in a loss of revenue and damage to our equipment and facilities, which may or may not be insured. Other adverse weather conditions could include extreme heat in the Middle East during the summer months which may impact our operations or our customers' operations.
•The severity and duration of both the summer and the winter in North America can have a significant impact on activity levels. In Canada, the timing and duration of the spring thaw directly affects activity levels, which reach seasonal lows during the second quarter and build through the third and fourth quarters to a seasonal high in the first quarter.
•Severe weather during the winter months normally results in reduced activity levels in the North Sea and Russia generally in the first quarter and may interrupt or curtail our operations, or our customers’ operations, in those areas and result in a loss of revenue.
•Many of our international oilfield customers may increase activity for certain products and services in the fourth quarter as they seek to fully utilize their annual budgets.
•Our process & pipeline business in the DS segment typically experiences lower sales during the first and fourth quarters of the year due to the Northern Hemisphere winter.
•Our broader DS and TPS businesses typically experience higher customer activity as a result of spending patterns in the second half of the year.
RAW MATERIALS
We purchase various raw materials and component parts for use in manufacturing our products and delivering our services.  The principal raw materials we use include steel alloys, chromium, nickel, titanium, barite, beryllium, copper, lead, tungsten carbide, synthetic and natural diamonds, gels, sand and other proppants, printed circuit boards and other electronic components, and hydrocarbon-based chemical feed stocks.  Raw materials that are essential to our business are normally readily available from multiple sources, but may be subject to price volatility.  Market conditions can trigger constraints in the supply of certain raw materials, and we are always seeking ways to ensure the availability and manage the cost of raw materials.  Our procurement department uses its size and buying power to enhance its access to key materials at competitive prices.
In addition to raw materials and component parts, we also use the products and services of metal fabricators, machine shops, foundries, forge shops, assembly operations, contract manufacturers, logistics providers, packagers, indirect material providers, and others in order to produce and deliver products to customers.  These materials and services are generally available from multiple sources.

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 7

HUMAN CAPITAL
As an energy technology company with operations around the world, we believe that a diverse workforce is critical to our success, and we aim to attract the best and most diverse talent to support the energy transition. We strive to be an inclusive and safe workplace, with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by competitive compensation, benefits and health and wellness programs, and by programs that build connections between our employees and their communities.
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 55,000 employees. More than 42,000 of our employees work outside the U.S. in 88 different countries. This diversity of global perspectives makes our company stronger, more resilient and more responsive to our global customers.
Diversity and Inclusion
We believe that a diverse workforce is critical to our success, and we continue to focus on the hiring, retention and advancement of underrepresented populations. Our recent efforts have been focused in two areas: expanding our efforts to recruit and hire diverse talent and inspiring an inclusive and diverse culture through programs such as employee resource groups.
Recruitment: We have enacted a number of initiatives to support our global goal of increasing the number of diverse employees. We have conducted training on unconscious bias and launched pilot projects on blind resumes and debiasing job descriptions, interview templates, and assessments as well as expanded our talent acquisition focus to include executive search services.
Employee Resource Groups (ERG): ERGs consist of employees who have joined together based on shared interests, characteristics, or life experiences. These groups can have a powerful influence on building awareness, change, and community, give a voice to groups who may otherwise be unheard, and help elevate conversation and awareness around key issues. They take an active role in forming Company priorities, employee engagement activities, and engaging in community service in the communities where we operate. This effort has helped our diversity and inclusion focus and fostered closer connections between employees in communities around the world.
Compensation and Benefits
We are committed to supporting our employees’ and their families’ wellbeing by offering flexible and competitive benefits. We periodically reassess our total compensation and benefits for many of our employees through benchmarking with our industry and local market comparison groups. A majority of our benefits are tailored by location to meet the specific needs of our people, their families, and their communities. Healthcare plans and life insurance are a core benefit of the Company and are provided in all countries globally. Baker Hughes offers various leaves of absence for certain quality-of-life needs, including family care and personal leaves. To assist and support new parents with balancing work and family matters, in most countries in which Baker Hughes operates, the Company provides paid leave to all employees (females and males) for the birth or adoption of a child. This benefit typically exceeds local requirements.
Professional Development
Continuous learning is a key priority at Baker Hughes. We empower our employees to follow their passion for personal knowledge and domain expertise to develop the skills needed for professional and personal growth. In 2020, 6,155 employees participated in leadership training courses. We offer more than 600 unique HSE courses including foundational training for all employees, workplace and job-specific training, and human performance leadership training for managers.

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 8

Health and Safety
Prioritizing the health and safety of our employees and their families is critical. Our Perfect HSE Day remains the cornerstone of our HSE efforts. We achieved 200 Perfect HSE days in 2020, a 24% increase from the prior year.
Our commitment to HSE goes beyond safety alone. Occupational health and wellness is a key competency managed within our HSE center of excellence. The importance of physical health, ergonomics, preventative health care, and mental wellness cannot be overstated in promoting a healthy, engaged, and productive workplace. We work with our health benefit providers and internal teams to offer employees health and wellness programs, telemedicine access, health screenings, immunizations, fitness reimbursements, and virtual wellness tools.
During 2020, the mental health of our employees became an even greater focus. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, and which comply with government regulations. This includes having the vast majority of our employees work from home, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work.
Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) helps employees navigate daily life to managing remote work, coping with major life events or even dealing with a global pandemic. The EAP gives employees and their family members direct access to professional coaches for in-the-moment counseling or referrals to community experts and extended care providers.
Community Involvement
The Baker Hughes Foundation has been a steward of charitable resources for meaningful community impact. The Foundation seeks to advance environmental quality, education, health, safety, and wellness around the world by supporting organizations with shared values, demonstrated leadership, evidence of impact, financial soundness, and the capacity to implement initiatives and evaluate their success.
Board Oversight of Human Capital Management
From a governance perspective, our Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors provides oversight of our policies, programs, and initiatives focusing on workforce inclusion and diversity as well as executive compensation and benefits. Our Governance & Corporate Responsibility Committee provides oversight of employee health and safety matters.
GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION
Environmental Matters
We are committed to the health and safety of people, protection of the environment and compliance with environmental laws, regulations and our policies. Our past and present operations include activities that are subject to extensive domestic (including U.S. federal, state and local) and international regulations with regard to air, land and water quality and other environmental matters. Regulations continue to evolve, and changes in standards of enforcement of existing regulations, as well as the enactment of new legislation, may require us and our customers to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities or to change or discontinue present methods of operation. Our environmental compliance expenditures and our capital costs for environmental control equipment may change accordingly.
We recognize that environmental challenges including climate change warrant meaningful action. In 2019, we announced our commitment to reduce our carbon equivalent emissions 50% by 2030 and achieve carbon equivalent net zero emissions by 2050. This goal encompasses emissions from our direct operations (Scope 1 and 2 emissions) as compared to our baseline year of 2012 and was set to align with the Paris Accord and the specific recommendations of the United Nations (UN) Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5oC. We have proactively worked to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions over the last decade and continue efforts to reduce our overall environmental footprint by using materials wisely and preserving land, water, and air quality. Our sustainability commitments include our formal participation in the UN Global

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 9

Compact, which commenced in 2019 and requires annual communication of progress.  The UN Global Compact requires commitment to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and ten principles including a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, initiatives to promote a greater sense of environmental responsibility and the development of environmentally friendly technologies.
While we seek to embed and verify sound environmental practices throughout our business, we are, and may in the future be, involved in voluntary remediation projects at current and former properties, typically related to historical operations. On rare occasions, our remediation activities are conducted as specified by a government agency-issued consent decree or agreed order. Remediation costs at these properties are accrued using currently available facts, existing environmental permits, technology and presently enacted laws and regulations. For sites where we are primarily responsible for the remediation, our cost estimates are developed based on internal evaluations and are not discounted. We record accruals when it is probable that we will be obligated to pay amounts for environmental site evaluation, remediation or related activities, and such amounts can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are recorded even if significant uncertainties exist over the ultimate cost of the remediation. Ongoing environmental compliance costs, such as obtaining environmental permits, installation and maintenance of pollution control equipment and waste disposal, are expensed as incurred.
The U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (known as "Superfund") imposes liability for the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. Superfund liability is imposed without regard to fault, even if the waste disposal was in compliance with laws and regulations. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at various Superfund sites, and we accrue our share, if known, of the estimated remediation costs for the site. PRPs in Superfund actions have joint and several liability and may be required to pay more than their proportional share of such costs.
In some cases, it is not possible to quantify our ultimate exposure because the projects are either in the investigative or early remediation stage, or superfund allocation information is not yet available. Based upon current information, we believe that our overall compliance with environmental regulations, including remediation obligations, environmental compliance costs and capital expenditures for environmental control equipment, will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position because we have either established adequate reserves or our compliance cost, based on available information, is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. Our total accrual for environmental remediation was $78 million and $82 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We continue to focus on reducing future environmental liabilities by maintaining appropriate Company standards and by improving our environmental assurance programs.
Other Regulatory Matters
We are subject to regulation by various U.S. federal regulatory agencies and by the applicable regulatory authorities in countries in which our products are manufactured and sold. Such regulations principally relate to the ingredients, classification, labeling, manufacturing, packaging, transportation, advertising and marketing of our products. Additionally, as a U.S. entity operating through subsidiaries in non-U.S. jurisdictions, we are subject to foreign exchange control, transfer pricing and customs laws that regulate the import and export of goods as well as the flow of funds between us and our subsidiaries. In particular, the shipment of goods, services and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Pursuant to their laws and regulations, governments may impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. We are also required to be in compliance with transfer pricing, securities laws and other statutes and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA") and other countries’ anti-corruption and anti-bribery regimes.

In addition, we are subject to laws relating to data privacy and security and consumer credit, protection and fraud. An increasing number of governments worldwide have established laws and regulations, and industry groups also have promoted various standards, regarding data privacy and security, including with respect to the protection and processing of personal data. The legal and regulatory environment related to data privacy and security is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We are also subject to labor and employment laws, including regulations established by the U.S. Department of Labor and other local regulatory agencies, which

Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 10

sets laws governing working conditions, paid leave, workplace safety, wage and hour standards, and hiring and employment practices.

While there are no current regulatory matters that we expect to be material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows, there can be no assurances that existing or future environmental laws and other laws, regulations and standards applicable to our operations or products will not lead to a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION FOR STOCKHOLDERS
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act), are made available free of charge on our internet website at www.bakerhughes.com as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our Corporate Social Responsibility reports are available on the Company section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com. Information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this annual report or any other filing we make with the SEC.
We have a Code of Conduct to provide guidance to our directors, officers, and employees on matters of business conduct and ethics, including compliance standards and procedures. We also require our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer to sign a Code of Ethical Conduct Certification annually.
The Code of Conduct, referred to as Our Way: The Baker Hughes Code of Conduct, and the Code of Ethical Conduct Certifications are available on the Investor section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com. We will disclose on a current report on Form 8-K or on our website information about any amendment or waiver of these codes for our executive officers and directors. Waiver information disclosed on our website will remain on the website for at least 12 months after the initial disclosure of a waiver. Our Governance Principles and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Conflicts Committee and Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors are also available on the Investor section of our website at www.bakerhughes.com. In addition, a copy of the Code of Conduct, Code of Ethical Conduct Certifications, Governance Principles, and the charters of the committees referenced above are available in print at no cost to any stockholder who requests them.













Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 11

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF BAKER HUGHES COMPANY
The following table shows, as of February 25, 2021, the name of each of our executive officers, together with his or her age and office presently or previously held. There are no family relationships among our executive officers.
														
Name		Age		Position and Background
Lorenzo Simonelli		47		
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Lorenzo Simonelli has been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company since October 2017, and a Director, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since July 2017. Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, Mr. Simonelli was Senior Vice President, GE and President and Chief Executive Officer, GE Oil & Gas from October 2013 to July 2017. Before joining GE Oil & Gas, he was the President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Transportation from July 2008 to October 2013. Mr. Simonelli joined GE in 1994 and held various finance and leadership roles from 1994 to 2008.
Brian Worrell		51		
Chief Financial Officer
Brian Worrell is the Chief Financial Officer of the Company. Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, he served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Oil & Gas from January 2014 to July 2017. He previously held the position of Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis for GE from 2010 to January 2014 and Vice President Corporate Audit Staff for GE from 2006 to 2010.
Maria Claudia Borras
		52		
Executive Vice President, Oilfield Services
Maria Claudia Borras is the Executive Vice President, Oilfield Services of the Company. Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, she served as the Chief Commercial Officer of GE Oil & Gas from January 2015 to July 2017. Prior to joining GE Oil & Gas, she held various leadership positions at Baker Hughes Incorporated including President, Latin America from October 2013 to December 2014, President, Europe Region from August 2011 to October 2013, Vice President, Global Marketing from May 2009 to July 2011 and other leadership roles at Baker Hughes Incorporated from 1994 to April 2009.
Kurt Camilleri
		46		
Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
Kurt Camilleri is the Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company. Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, he served as the Global Controller for GE Oil & Gas from July 2013 to July 2017. Mr. Camilleri served as the Global Controller for GE Transportation from January 2013 to June 2013 and the Controller for Europe and Eastern and African Growth Markets for GE Healthcare from 2010 to January 2013. He began his career in 1996 with Pricewaterhouse in London, which subsequently became PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Roderick Christie
		58		
Executive Vice President, Turbomachinery and Process Solutions
Rod Christie is the Executive Vice President, Turbomachinery & Process Solutions of the Company.  Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of Turbomachinery & Process Solutions at GE Oil & Gas from January 2016 to July 2017. He served as the Chief Executive Officer of GE Oil & Gas’ Subsea Systems & Drilling Business from August 2011 to 2016 and held various other leadership positions within GE between 1999 to 2011.
Michele Fiorentino		53		
Executive Vice President, Strategy & Business Development
Michele Fiorentino is the Executive Vice President, Strategy & Business Development of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Chief Investment Officer and Strategy Leader at ADNOC from April 2017 to May 2020. Prior to that, he held senior corporate strategy, finance, and sales roles at BP from September 1996 to March 2017.
Regina Jones
		50		
Chief Legal Officer
Regina Jones is the Chief Legal Officer of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, she served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for Delek U.S. Holdings, Inc and Delek Logistics Partners LP from May 2018 to April 2020. Prior to that, she worked at Schlumberger as General Counsel for the Land Rigs product line from June 2016 to May 2018 and in various international legal roles in France, Malaysia and the United States from 2005 to 2018.


Baker Hughes Company 2020 FORM 10-K | 12

														
Name		Age		Position and Background
Rami Qasem		53		
Executive Vice President, Digital Solutions
Rami Qasem is the Executive Vice President, Digital Solutions of the Company. Prior to this role, he served as President of the Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and India (MENATI) region for the Company from July 2017 through January 2019. Prior to joining the Company, he served as President of the MENATI region for GE Oil & Gas from 2011 to 2017 and various other leadership roles within GE from 1997 to 2011.
Neil Saunders
		51		
Executive Vice President, Oilfield Equipment
Neil Saunders is the Executive Vice President, Oilfield Equipment of the Company. Prior to joining the Company in July 2017, he served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Subsea Systems & Drilling business at GE Oil & Gas from July 2016 to July 2017 and the Senior Vice President for Subsea Production Systems from August 2011 to July 2016. He served in various leadership roles within GE Oil & Gas from 2007 to August 2011.
Uwem Ukpong
		49		
Executive Vice President, Regions, Alliances & Enterprise Sales
Uwem Ukpong is the Executive Vice President, Regions, Alliances & Enterprise Sales of the Company. Prior to this role, he served as the Executive Vice President, Global Operations from January 2018 to April 2020 and Chief Integration Officer of the Company from July 2017 to January 2018. He served as Vice President, Baker Hughes Integration for GE Oil & Gas from October 2016 to July 2017 and President and CEO of the GE Oil & Gas Surface Business from January 2016 to October 2016. He held various technical and leadership roles at Schlumberger from 1993 to 2015.
