Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire,” “Company” or “Registrant”) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a large number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary basis and a reinsurance basis, a freight rail transportation business and a group of utility and energy generation and distribution businesses. Berkshire also owns and operates numerous other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is in Omaha, Nebraska.

Berkshire’s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are few centralized or integrated business functions. Berkshire’s corporate senior management team participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating businesses.

Berkshire’s senior management is also responsible for establishing and monitoring Berkshire’s corporate governance practices, including monitoring governance efforts, including those at the operating businesses, and participating in the resolution of governance-related issues as needed. Berkshire’s Board of Directors is responsible for assuring an appropriate successor to the Chief Executive Officer. The Berkshire Code of Business Conduct and Ethics emphasizes, among other things, the commitment to ethics and compliance with the law and provides basic standards for ethical and legal behavior of its employees.

Berkshire and its consolidated subsidiaries employed approximately 360,000 people worldwide at the end of 2020. Human capital and resources are an integral and essential component of Berkshire’s businesses. Consistent with Berkshire’s decentralized management philosophy, Berkshire’s operating businesses establish specific policies and practices for their businesses concerning the attraction and retention of personnel within the organizations. Such policies and practices generally address, among other things: maintaining a safe work environment for employees, customers and other business partners, offering competitive compensation to employees, including health insurance and retirement benefits and incentives, providing learning and career development opportunities, and hiring practices intended to identify qualified candidates and promote diversity and inclusion in the workforce.

Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses

Berkshire’s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through numerous domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire’s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of property and casualty and life, accident and health risks worldwide. Berkshire’s insurance businesses employed approximately 51,000 people at the end of 2020.

In direct or primary insurance activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other direct insurers or reinsurers assumed in their own insuring activities.

Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion of a specified group or class of risks ceded by the direct insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual underlying risks. Reinsurance contracts are further classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums and losses of the direct insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the direct insurer or reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or “retention.” Both quota-share and excess reinsurance contracts may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.

Insurance and reinsurance are generally subject to regulatory oversight throughout the world. Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, financial ratings, underwriting consistency, service, business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.

K-1

 

Insurers based in the United States (“U.S.”) are subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed to write policies on an admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company’s authority to do business as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders and other transactions with affiliates. Dividends, capital distributions and other transactions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.

Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states where they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers. Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable through admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as “excess and surplus” lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by the insured party’s direct procurement from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates or reinsurance contracts.

The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”). The NAIC adopts forms, instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer’s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, risk management, compliance with financial regulation standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.

U.S. states, through the NAIC, and international insurance regulators through the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) have been developing standards and best practices focused on establishing a common set of principles (“Insurance Core Principles”) and framework (“ComFrame”) for the regulation of large multi-national insurance groups. The standards address a variety of topics regarding supervision, coordination of regulators, insurance capital standards, risk management and governance. While the IAIS standards do not have legal effect, the states and the NAIC are implementing various regulatory tools and mandates that are responsive to certain IAIS standards. For example, the U.S. state regulators now require insurance groups to file an annual report, called an Own Risk Solvency Assessment or ORSA, with the group’s lead regulator. U.S. state regulators formed supervisory colleges intended to promote communication and cooperation amongst the various domestic international insurance regulators. The Nebraska Department of Insurance acts as the lead group wide supervisor for our group of insurance companies and chairs the Berkshire supervisory college. The NAIC is also developing further tools, including a group capital calculation tool and various liquidity assessments, that could be imposed on insurance groups in the future.

Berkshire’s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally high levels, which differentiates them from their competitors. Collectively, the combined statutory surplus of Berkshire’s U.S.-based insurers was approximately $237 billion at December 31, 2020. Berkshire’s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AA+ by Standard & Poor’s and A++ (superior) by A.M. Best with respect to their financial condition and claims paying ability.

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program (“Program”) for commercial property and casualty insurers by providing federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses. The Program currently extends to December 31, 2027 through other Acts, most recently the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 (the “2019 TRIA Reauthorization”). Hereinafter these Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying “acts of terrorism.” Coverage under TRIA occurs if the industry insured loss for certified events occurring during the calendar year exceeds $200 million in 2020, or any calendar year thereafter.

To be eligible for federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation. TRIA currently also excludes certain forms of direct insurance (such as personal and commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.

K-2

 

During 2020 and thereafter, in the event of a certified act of terrorism, the federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 80% of their insured losses in excess of an insurance group’s deductible. Under the Program, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines of business in the immediately preceding calendar year. The aggregate deductible in 2021 for Berkshire’s insurance group is expected to approximate $1.4 billion. There is also an aggregate program limit of $100 billion on the amount of the federal government coverage for each TRIA year.

The extent of insurance regulation varies significantly among the countries in which our non-U.S. operations conduct business. While each country imposes licensing, solvency, auditing, and financial reporting requirements, the type and extent of the requirements differ substantially. For example:

 
	

•
	

in some countries, insurers are required to prepare and file monthly and/or quarterly financial reports, and in others, only annual reports;

 
	

•
	

some regulators require intermediaries to be involved in the sale of insurance products, whereas other regulators permit direct sales contact between the insurer and the customer;

 
	

•
	

the extent of restrictions imposed upon an insurer's use of local and offshore reinsurance vary;

 
	

•
	

policy form filing and rate regulation vary by country;

 
	

•
	

the frequency of contact and periodic on-site examinations by insurance authorities differ by country;

 
	

•
	

the scope and prescriptive requirements of an insurer’s risk management and governance framework vary significantly by country; and

 
	

•
	

regulatory requirements relating to insurer dividend policies vary by country.

Significant variations can also be found in the size, structure, and resources of the local regulatory departments that oversee insurance activities. Certain regulators prefer close relationships with all subject insurers and others operate a risk-based approach.

Berkshire’s insurance group operates in some countries through subsidiaries and in some countries through branches of subsidiaries. Berkshire insurance subsidiaries are located in several countries, including Germany, the United Kingdom (“UK”), Ireland, Australia and South Africa, and also maintain branches in other countries, including Canada, various members of the European Union (“EU”), Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Macau and Dubai. Most of these foreign jurisdictions impose local capital requirements. Other legal requirements include discretionary licensing procedures, local retention of funds and records, and data privacy and protection program requirements. Berkshire’s international insurance companies are also subject to multinational application of certain U.S. laws.

There are various regulatory bodies and initiatives that impact Berkshire in multiple international jurisdictions and the potential for significant effect on the Berkshire insurance group could be heightened as a result of recent industry and economic developments.

On June 23, 2016, the UK voted in a national referendum to withdraw from the EU (“Brexit”), which resulted in the UK’s withdrawal from the EU on January 31, 2020. In anticipation of the UK leaving the EU, Berkshire Hathaway European Insurance DAC in Ireland was established to permit property and casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses to continue to operate in the EU following Brexit. Following the withdrawal of the UK from the EU as a result of Brexit, Berkshire expects to continue to maintain a substantial presence in London.

Berkshire’s insurance underwriting operations include the following groups: (1) GEICO, (2) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group and (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group. Except for retroactive reinsurance and periodic payment annuity products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated claims expected to be paid over very long time periods (creating “float,” see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to achieve a net underwriting profit over time and to reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is defined as earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting profit does not include income earned from investments. Additional information related to each of Berkshire’s underwriting groups follows.

GEICO—GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland. GEICO’s insurance subsidiaries consist of Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company, GEICO Casualty Company, GEICO Advantage Insurance Company, GEICO Choice Insurance Company, GEICO Secure Insurance Company, GEICO County Mutual Insurance Company and GEICO Marine Insurance Company. The GEICO companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO also provides insurance for motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles, boats and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, renters, life and identity management insurance to individuals who desire insurance coverages other than those offered by GEICO.

GEICO’s marketing is primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet or by telephone, and to a lesser extent, through captive agents. GEICO conducts business through regional service centers and claims adjustment and other facilities in 39 states.

K-3

 

The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. GEICO competes for private passenger automobile insurance customers in the preferred, standard and non-standard risk markets with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use agency sales forces, including State Farm, Allstate, Progressive and USAA. GEICO’s advertising campaigns and competitive rates contributed to a cumulative increase in voluntary policies-in-force of approximately 36% over the past five years. According to the most recently published A.M. Best data for 2019, the five largest automobile insurers had a combined market share in 2019 of approximately 58% based on written premiums, with GEICO’s market share being second largest at approximately 13.8%. Since that data was published, GEICO’s management estimates its current market share may have declined, depending on how the effects of pandemic-related premium credit programs will be reflected in A.M. Best’s measurements. Seasonal variations in GEICO’s insurance business are not significant. However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.

State insurance departments stringently regulate private passenger auto insurance. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for private passenger automobile insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. GEICO’s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction enable it to offer competitive rates and value to its customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims. The name and reputation of GEICO are material assets and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group—The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group (“BH Primary”) is a collection of independently managed insurers that provide a wide variety of insurance coverages to policyholders located principally in the United States. These various operations are discussed below.

NICO and certain affiliates (“NICO Primary”) underwrite commercial motor vehicle and general liability insurance on an admitted basis and on an excess and surplus basis. Insurance coverages are offered nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers.

The Berkshire Hathaway Homestate Companies (“BHHC”) is a group of insurers offering workers’ compensation, commercial auto and commercial property coverages to a diverse client base. BHHC has a national reach, with the ability to provide first-dollar and small to large deductible workers’ compensation coverage to employers in all states, except those where coverage is available only through state-operated workers’ compensation funds. NICO Primary and BHHC are each based in Omaha, Nebraska.

Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance (“BH Specialty”) offers commercial property, casualty, healthcare professional liability, executive and professional, surety, travel, medical stop loss and homeowner’s insurance through Berkshire Hathaway Specialty Insurance Company and other Berkshire insurance affiliates. BH Specialty writes primary and excess policies on an admitted and surplus basis in the U.S., and on a local or foreign non-admitted basis outside the U.S. BH Specialty is based in Boston, Massachusetts, with regional offices currently in several U.S. cities. BH Specialty also maintains international offices located in Australia, New Zealand, Canada and several countries in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. BH Specialty writes business through wholesale and retail insurance brokers, as well as managing general agents.

MedPro Group (“MedPro”) is a leading provider of healthcare liability (“HCL”) insurance in the United States. MedPro provides customized HCL insurance, claims, patient safety and risk solutions to physicians, surgeons, dentists and other healthcare professionals, as well as hospitals, senior care and other healthcare facilities. Additionally, MedPro provides HCL insurance solutions to the international markets through other Berkshire insurance affiliates, delivers liability insurance to other professionals, and offers specialized accident and health insurance solutions to colleges and other customers through its subsidiaries and other Berkshire affiliates. MedPro is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana.

U.S. Liability Insurance Company (“USLI”) includes a group of five specialty insurers that underwrite commercial, professional and personal lines insurance on an admitted basis, as well as an excess and surplus basis. USLI markets policies in all 50 states and the District of Columbia and Canada through wholesale and retail insurance agents. USLI companies also underwrite and market a wide variety of specialty insurance products. USLI is based in Wayne, Pennsylvania.

The Berkshire Hathaway GUARD Insurance Companies (“GUARD”) is a group of five insurance companies that provide workers’ compensation, business owners’, commercial auto, commercial package and homeowners’ products to over 350,000 small and mid-sized businesses. GUARD also offers complementary professional liability and umbrella products nationwide. Policies are offered through independent agents and retail and wholesale brokers. GUARD is based in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha, based in Omaha, Nebraska, primarily writes credit card credit insurance, Medicare Supplement insurance and agricultural equipment insurance.

On October 1, 2018, NICO acquired MLMIC Insurance Company (“MLMIC”). MLMIC has been the leading writer of medical professional liability insurance in New York State for over 40 years. MLMIC distributes its policies mostly on a

K-4

 

direct basis to medical and dental professionals, health care providers and hospitals. In October 2019, Berkshire sold its 81% interest in Applied Underwriters, Inc.

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group—Berkshire’s combined global reinsurance business, referred to as the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (“BHRG”), offers a wide range of coverages on property, casualty, life and health risks to insurers and reinsurers worldwide. Reinsurance business is written through National Indemnity Company (“NICO”), domiciled in Nebraska, its subsidiaries and various other insurance subsidiaries wholly owned by Berkshire (collectively, the “NICO Group”) and General Re Corporation, domiciled in Delaware, and its subsidiaries (collectively the “General Re Group”). BHRG’s underwriting operations in the U.S. are based in Stamford, Connecticut. BHRG also conducts business activities globally in 23 countries.

The type and volume of business written is dependent on market conditions, including prevailing premium rates and coverage terms. The level of underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets as well as from the timing of particularly large reinsurance transactions.

Property/casualty

The NICO Group offers traditional property/casualty reinsurance on both an excess-of-loss and a quota-share basis, catastrophe excess-of-loss treaty and facultative reinsurance, and primary insurance on an excess-of-loss basis for large or unusual risks for clients worldwide.

The type and volume of business written by the NICO Group may vary significantly from period to period resulting from changes in perceived premium rate adequacy and from unique or large transactions. A significant portion of NICO Group’s annual reinsurance premium volume currently derives from a 20% quota-share agreement with Insurance Australia Group Limited (“IAG”) that expires July 1, 2025. IAG is a multi-line insurer in Australia, New Zealand and other Asia-Pacific countries. The General Re Group conducts a global property and casualty reinsurance business. Reinsurance contracts are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of business. Contracts are primarily in the form of treaties, and to a lesser degree, on a facultative basis.

General Re Group conducts business in North America primarily through General Reinsurance Corporation (“GRC”), which is licensed in the District of Columbia and all states, except Hawaii, where it is an accredited reinsurer. GRC conducts operations in North America from its headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut and through 13 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada.

In North America, the General Re Group includes General Star National Insurance Company, General Star Indemnity Company and Genesis Insurance Company, which offer a broad array of specialty and surplus lines and property, casualty and professional liability coverages. Such business is marketed through a select group of wholesale brokers, managing general underwriters and program administrators, and offer solutions for the unique needs of public entity, commercial and captive customers.

General Re Group’s international reinsurance business is conducted on a direct basis through General Reinsurance AG (“GRAG”), based in Cologne, Germany, and through several other subsidiaries and branches in 22 countries. International business is also written through brokers, including Faraday Underwriting Limited (“Faraday”), a wholly-owned subsidiary. Faraday owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd’s of London and provides capacity and participates in 100% of the results of Syndicate 435.

Life/health

The General Re Group also conducts a global life and health reinsurance business. In the U.S. and internationally, the General Re Group writes life, disability, supplemental health, critical illness and long-term care coverages. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. Approximately 35% of the aggregate life/health net premiums written by the General Re Group were in the Asia Pacific compared to 26% in the United States, 22% in Western Europe and 17% throughout the rest of the world.

Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“BHLN”), a subsidiary of NICO, and its affiliates write reinsurance covering various forms of traditional life insurance exposures and, on a limited basis, health insurance exposures. BHLN and its affiliates have also periodically reinsured certain guaranteed minimum death, income, and similar benefit risks on closed-blocks of variable annuity reinsurance contracts.

K-5

 

Retroactive reinsurance

NICO also periodically writes retroactive reinsurance contracts. Retroactive reinsurance contracts indemnify ceding companies against the adverse development of claims arising from loss events that have already occurred under property and casualty policies issued in prior years. Coverages under such contracts are provided on an excess basis (above a stated retention) or for losses payable after the inception of the contract with no additional ceding company retention. Contracts are normally subject to aggregate limits of indemnification, which can be exceptionally large in amount. For instance, an excess contract written in January 2017 provides indemnification for 80% of up to $25 billion in excess of $25 billion retained by the ceding company. Significant amounts of asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims may arise under these contracts.

The concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing retroactive reinsurance contract prices and terms since loss payments may occur over decades. Normally, expected ultimate losses payable under these policies are expected to exceed premiums, thus producing underwriting losses. Nevertheless, this business is written, in part, because of the large amounts of policyholder funds generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment results in future periods.

Periodic payment annuity

BHLN writes periodic payment annuity insurance policies and reinsures existing annuity-like obligations. Under these policies, BHLN receives upfront premiums and agrees in the future to make periodic payments that often extend for decades. These policies, generally relate to the settlement of underlying personal injury or workers’ compensation cases of other insurers, known as structured settlements. Consistent with retroactive reinsurance contracts, time-value-of-money concepts are an important factor in establishing annuity premiums and underwriting losses are expected from the periodic accretion of time-value discounted liabilities.

Investments of insurance businesses—Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries hold significant levels of invested assets. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by Berkshire’s Chief Executive Officer. Investments include a very large portfolio of publicly traded equity securities, which are concentrated in relatively few issuers, as well as fixed maturity securities and cash and short-term investments. Generally, there are no targeted allocations by investment type or attempts to match investment asset and insurance liability durations. However, investment portfolios have historically included a much greater proportion of equity securities than is customary in the insurance industry.

Invested assets derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders through insurance and reinsurance business (“float”). Float is the approximate amount of net policyholder funds generated through underwriting activities that is available for investment. The major components of float are unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, life, annuity and health benefit liabilities, unearned premiums and other policyholder liabilities less premium and reinsurance receivables, deferred policy acquisition costs and deferred charges on reinsurance contracts. On a consolidated basis, float has grown from approximately $88 billion at the end of 2015 to approximately $138 billion at the end of 2020. The cost of float can be measured as the net pre-tax underwriting loss as a percentage of average float. In four of the past five years, Berkshire’s cost of float was negative, as its insurance businesses produced net underwriting gains.

Railroad Business—Burlington Northern Santa Fe

Burlington Northern Santa Fe, LLC (“BNSF”) is based in Fort Worth, Texas, and through BNSF Railway Company (“BNSF Railway”) operates one of the largest railroad systems in North America. BNSF Railway had approximately 35,000 employees at the end of 2020. BNSF also operates a relatively smaller third-party logistics services business.

In serving the Midwest, Pacific Northwest, Western, Southwestern and Southeastern regions and ports of the United States, BNSF transports a range of products and commodities derived from manufacturing, agricultural and natural resource industries. Freight revenues are covered by contractual agreements of varying durations or common carrier published prices or company quotations. BNSF’s financial performance is influenced by, among other things, general and industry economic conditions at the international, national and regional levels.

BNSF’s primary routes, including trackage rights, allow it to access major cities and ports in the western and southern United States as well as parts of Canada and Mexico. In addition to major cities and ports, BNSF Railway efficiently serves many smaller markets by working closely with approximately 200 shortline railroads. BNSF Railway has also entered into marketing agreements with other rail carriers, expanding the marketing reach for each railroad and their customers. For the year ending December 31, 2020, approximately 37% of freight revenues were derived from consumer products, 26% from industrial products, 24% from agricultural products and 13% from coal.

K-6

 

Regulatory Matters

BNSF is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations generally applicable to its businesses. Rail operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), the Federal Railroad Administration of the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”), as well as other federal and state regulatory agencies and Canadian regulatory agencies for operations in Canada. The STB has jurisdiction over disputes and complaints involving certain rates, routes and services, the sale or abandonment of rail lines, applications for line extensions and construction, and the merger with or acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The outcome of STB proceedings can affect the profitability of BNSF Railway’s business.

The DOT and OSHA have jurisdiction under several federal statutes over a number of safety and health aspects of rail operations, including the transportation of hazardous materials. BNSF Railway is required to transport these materials to the extent of its common carrier obligation. State agencies regulate some aspects of rail operations with respect to health and safety in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law.

Environmental Matters

BNSF’s rail operations, as well as those of its competitors, are also subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental regulation covering discharges to the ground or waters, air emissions, toxic substances and the generation, handling, storage, transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous materials. Such regulations effectively increase the costs and liabilities associated with rail operations. Environmental risks are also inherent in rail operations, which frequently involve transporting chemicals and other hazardous materials.

Many of BNSF’s land holdings are or have been used for industrial or transportation-related purposes or leased to commercial or industrial companies whose activities may have resulted in discharges onto the property. Under federal (in particular, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act) and state statutes, BNSF may be held jointly and severally liable for cleanup and enforcement costs associated with a particular site without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct. BNSF may also be subject to claims by third parties for investigation, cleanup, restoration or other environmental costs under environmental statutes or common law with respect to properties they own that have been impacted by BNSF operations.

Competition

The business environment in which BNSF operates is highly competitive. Depending on the specific market, deregulated motor carriers and other railroads, as well as river barges, ships and pipelines, may exert pressure on price and service levels. The presence of advanced, high service truck lines with expedited delivery, subsidized infrastructure and minimal empty mileage continues to affect the market for non-bulk, time-sensitive freight. The potential expansion of longer combination vehicles could further encroach upon markets traditionally served by railroads. In order to remain competitive, BNSF Railway and other railroads seek to develop and implement operating efficiencies to improve productivity.

As railroads streamline, rationalize and otherwise enhance their franchises, competition among rail carriers intensifies. BNSF Railway’s primary rail competitor in the Western region of the United States is the Union Pacific Railroad Company. Other Class I railroads and numerous regional railroads and motor carriers also operate in parts of the same territories served by BNSF Railway.

Utilities and Energy Businesses—Berkshire Hathaway Energy

Berkshire currently owns 91.1% of the outstanding common stock of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company (“BHE”). BHE is a global energy company with subsidiaries that generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy. BHE’s locally managed businesses are organized as separate operating units. BHE’s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of four regulated utility companies serving approximately 5.2 million retail customers, five interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 21,300 miles of operated pipeline having a design capacity of approximately 21 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and ownership interests in electricity transmission businesses. BHE’s Great Britain electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.9 million electricity end-users and its electricity transmission-only business in Alberta, Canada serves approximately 85% of Alberta’s population. BHE’s interests also include a diversified portfolio of independent power projects, a liquefied natural gas export, import and storage facility, the largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States, and one of the largest residential real estate brokerage franchise networks in the United States. BHE employs approximately 24,000 people in connection with its various operations.

K-7

 

General Matters

PacifiCorp is a regulated electric utility company headquartered in Oregon, serving electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The combined service territory’s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the combined service territory, which helps mitigate PacifiCorp’s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electricity on a wholesale basis.

MidAmerican Energy Company (“MEC”) is a regulated electric and natural gas utility company headquartered in Iowa, serving electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse retail customer base consisting of urban and rural residential customers and a variety of commercial and industrial customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MEC sells electricity principally to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and natural gas on a wholesale basis.

NV Energy, Inc. (“NV Energy”) is an energy holding company headquartered in Nevada, primarily consisting of two regulated utility subsidiaries, Nevada Power Company (“Nevada Power”) and Sierra Pacific Power Company (“Sierra Pacific”) (collectively, the “Nevada Utilities”). Nevada Power serves retail electric customers in southern Nevada and Sierra Pacific serves retail electric and natural gas customers in northern Nevada. The Nevada Utilities’ combined service territory’s economy includes gaming, mining, recreation, warehousing, manufacturing and governmental services. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, the Nevada Utilities sell electricity and natural gas on a wholesale basis.

As vertically integrated utilities, BHE’s domestic utilities own approximately 29,000 net megawatts of generation capacity in operation and under construction. The domestic utilities business is subject to seasonal variations principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, regulated electric revenues are higher in the summer months, while regulated natural gas revenues are higher in the winter months.

The Great Britain distribution companies consist of Northern Powergrid (Northeast) plc and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) plc, which own a substantial electricity distribution network that delivers electricity to end-users in northeast England in an area covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of their distribution systems.

AltaLink L.P. (“AltaLink”) is a regulated electric transmission-only utility company headquartered in Calgary, Alberta. AltaLink’s high voltage transmission lines and related facilities transmit electricity from generating facilities to major load centers, cities and large industrial plants throughout its 87,000 square mile service territory.

The natural gas pipelines consist of BHE GT&S, LLC (“BHE GT&S”), Northern Natural Gas Company (“Northern Natural”) and Kern River Gas Transmission Company (“Kern River”). BHE GT&S was acquired on November 1, 2020.

BHE GT&S, based in Virginia, operates three interstate natural gas pipeline systems that consist of approximately 5,400 miles of natural gas transmission, gathering and storage pipelines and operates seventeen underground natural gas storage fields in the eastern region of the United States. BHE GT&S’s large underground natural gas storage assets and pipeline systems are part of an interconnected gas transmission network that provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. BHE GT&S is also an industry leader in liquefied natural gas solutions through its investments in and ownership of several liquefied natural gas facilities located throughout the eastern region of the United States.

Northern Natural, based in Nebraska, operates the largest interstate natural gas pipeline system in the United States, as measured by pipeline miles, reaching from west Texas to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural’s pipeline system consists of approximately 14,500 miles of natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural’s extensive pipeline system, which is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid system, has access to supplies from multiple major supply basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other customers. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural’s pipeline system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand and revenue, with the highest demand typically occurring during the months of November through March.

Kern River, based in Utah, operates an interstate natural gas pipeline system that consists of approximately 1,400 miles and extends from supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. Kern River transports natural gas for electric and natural gas distribution utilities, major oil and natural gas companies or affiliates of such companies, electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, and financial institutions.

BHE Renewables, based in Iowa, owns interests in independent power projects having approximately 4,700 net megawatts of generation capacity that are in service in California, Texas, Illinois, Nebraska, New York, Arizona, Minnesota, Kansas, Hawaii and the Philippines. These independent power projects sell power generated primarily from wind, solar, geothermal and hydro sources under long-term contracts. Additionally, BHE Renewables has invested over $6 billion in 32 wind projects sponsored by third parties, commonly referred to as tax equity investments.

K-8

 

Regulatory Matters

PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are subject to comprehensive regulation by various federal, state and local agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) is an independent agency with broad authority to implement provisions of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and other federal statutes. The FERC regulates rates for wholesale sales of electricity; transmission of electricity, including pricing and regional planning for the expansion of transmission systems; electric system reliability; utility holding companies; accounting and records retention; securities issuances; construction and operation of hydroelectric facilities; and other matters. The FERC also has the enforcement authority to assess civil penalties of up to $1.3 million per day per violation of rules, regulations and orders issued under the Federal Power Act. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with respect to its 25% ownership of the Quad Cities Nuclear Station.

With certain limited exceptions, BHE’s domestic utilities have an exclusive right to serve retail customers within their service territories and, in turn, have an obligation to provide service to those customers. In some jurisdictions, certain classes of customers may choose to purchase all or a portion of their energy from alternative energy suppliers, and in some jurisdictions retail customers can generate all or a portion of their own energy. Historically, state regulatory commissions have established retail electric and natural gas rates on a cost-of-service basis, designed to allow a utility the opportunity to recover what each state regulatory commission deems to be the utility’s reasonable costs of providing services, including a fair opportunity to earn a reasonable return on its investments based on its cost of debt and equity. The retail electric rates of PacifiCorp, MEC and the Nevada Utilities are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and distribution services; however, rates are available for transmission and distribution-only services.

Northern Powergrid (Northeast) and Northern Powergrid (Yorkshire) each charge fees for the use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority. The current eight-year price control period runs from April 1, 2015 through March 31, 2023.

AltaLink is regulated by the Alberta Utilities Commission (“AUC”), pursuant to the Electric Utilities Act (Alberta), the Public Utilities Act (Alberta), the Alberta Utilities Commission Act (Alberta) and the Hydro and Electric Energy Act (Alberta). The AUC is an independent quasi-judicial agency, which regulates and oversees Alberta’s electricity transmission sector with broad authority that may impact many of AltaLink’s activities, including its tariffs, rates, construction, operations and financing. Under the Electric Utilities Act, AltaLink prepares and files applications with the AUC for approval of tariffs to be paid by the Alberta Electric System Operator (“AESO”) for the use of its transmission facilities, and the terms and conditions governing the use of those facilities. The AESO is an independent system operator in Alberta, Canada that oversees Alberta’s integrated electrical system (“AIES”) and wholesale electricity market. The AESO is responsible for directing the safe, reliable and economic operation of the AIES, including long-term transmission system planning.

The natural gas pipelines are subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies. The natural gas pipeline and storage operations of BHE GT&S, Northern Natural and Kern River are regulated by the FERC pursuant to the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Under this authority, the FERC regulates, among other items, (a) rates, charges, terms and conditions of service, (b) the construction and operation of interstate pipelines, storage and related facilities, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such facilities and (c) the construction and operation of liquefied natural gas import/export facilities. Interstate natural gas pipeline companies are also subject to regulations administered by the Office of Pipeline Safety within the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an agency of the DOT. Federal pipeline safety regulations are issued pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate natural gas pipeline facilities.

Environmental Matters

BHE and its energy businesses are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regarding climate change, renewable portfolio standards, air and water quality, emissions performance standards, coal combustion byproduct disposal, hazardous and solid waste disposal, protected species and other environmental matters that have the potential to impact current and future operations. In addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations, such as the Federal Clean Air Act, provide regulators with the authority to levy substantial penalties for noncompliance, including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.

The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the nation’s air quality and controlling sources of air emissions. These laws and regulations continue to be promulgated and implemented and will impact the operation of BHE’s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities to comply with the requirements.

K-9

 

Renewable portfolio standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California, Iowa and Nevada have adopted renewable portfolio standards. In addition, the potential adoption of state or federal clean energy standards, which include low-carbon, non-carbon and renewable electricity generating resources, may also impact electricity generators and natural gas providers.

In December 2015, an international agreement was negotiated by 195 nations to create a universal framework for coordinated action on climate change in what is referred to as the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement reaffirms the goal of limiting global temperature increase well below 2 degrees Celsius, while urging efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius; establishes commitments by all parties to make nationally determined contributions and pursue domestic measures aimed at achieving the commitments; commits all countries to submit emissions inventories and report regularly on their emissions and progress made in implementing and achieving their nationally determined commitments; and commits all countries to submit new commitments every five years, with the expectation that the commitments will get more aggressive. In the context of the Paris Agreement, the United States agreed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 26% to 28% by 2025 from 2005 levels. The Paris Agreement formally entered into force November 4, 2016. The United States completed its withdrawal from the Paris Agreement on November 4, 2020. President Biden accepted the terms of the climate agreement on January 21, 2021, and the United States completed its reentry on February 19, 2021.

On October 10, 2017, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) issued a proposal to repeal the Clean Power Plan, which was intended to achieve an overall reduction in carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil-fueled electric generating units of 32% below 2005 levels. On June 19, 2019, the EPA repealed the Clean Power Plan and issued the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which fully replaced the Clean Power Plan. In the Affordable Clean Energy rule, the EPA determined that the best system of emissions reduction for existing coal fueled power plants is heat rate improvements and identified a set of candidate technologies and measures that could improve heat rates. Measures taken to meet the standards of performance must be achieved at the source itself.

The EPA’s repeal and replacement of the Clean Power Plan is not expected to have a material impact on BHE and its energy subsidiaries. Increasingly, states are adopting legislation and regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and local governments and consumers are seeking increasing amounts of clean and renewable energy.

BHE and its energy subsidiaries continue to focus on delivering reliable, affordable, safe and clean energy to its customers and on actions to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. For example, through December 31, 2020, BHE’s cumulative investment in wind, solar, geothermal and biomass generation is approximately $34 billion.

Non-Energy Businesses

HomeServices of America, Inc. (“HomeServices”) is the largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties, relocation services and other home-related services. It operates under 46 brand names with over 43,000 real estate agents in nearly 900 brokerage offices in 30 states and the District of Columbia.

HomeServices’ franchise network currently includes approximately 370 franchisees in over 1,600 brokerage offices throughout the United States and Europe with over 53,000 real estate agents under two brand names. In exchange for certain fees, HomeServices provides the right to use the Berkshire Hathaway HomeServices or Real Living brand names and other related service marks, as well as providing orientation programs, training and consultation services, advertising programs and other services.

HomeServices’ principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally higher in the second and third quarters of each year. This business is highly competitive and subject to general real estate market conditions.

Manufacturing Businesses

Berkshire’s numerous and diverse manufacturing subsidiaries are grouped into three categories: (1) industrial products, (2) building products and (3) consumer products. Berkshire’s industrial products businesses manufacture specialty chemicals, metal cutting tools, components for aerospace and power generation applications, and a variety of other products primarily for industrial use. The building products group produces prefabricated and site-built residential homes, flooring products, insulation, roofing and engineered products, building and engineered components, paint and coatings and bricks and masonry products. The consumer products group manufactures recreational vehicles, alkaline batteries, various apparel products, jewelry and custom picture framing products. Information concerning the major activities of these three groups follows. Berkshire’s manufacturing businesses employed approximately 179,000 people at the end of 2020.

K-10

 

Industrial products

Precision Castparts

Precision Castparts Corp. (“PCC”) manufactures complex metal components and products, provides high-quality investment castings, forgings, fasteners/fastener systems and aerostructures for critical aerospace and power and energy applications. PCC also manufactures seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine (“IGT”) and nuclear power plants; downhole casing and tubing, fittings and various mill forms in a variety of nickel and steel alloys for severe-service oil and gas environments; investment castings and forgings for general industrial, armament, medical and other applications; nickel and titanium alloys in all standard mill forms from large ingots and billets to plate, foil, sheet, strip, tubing, bar, rod, extruded shapes, rod-in-coil, wire and welding consumables, as well as cobalt alloys, for the aerospace, chemical processing, oil and gas, pollution control and other industries; revert management solutions; fasteners for automotive and general industrial markets; specialty alloys for the investment casting and forging industries; heat treating and destructive testing services for the investment cast products and forging industries; grinder pumps and affiliated components for low-pressure sewer systems; critical auxiliary equipment and gas monitoring systems for the power generation industry; and metalworking tools for the fastener market and other applications.

Investment casting technology involves a multi-step process that uses ceramic molds in the manufacture of metal components with more complex shapes, closer tolerances and finer surface finishes than parts manufactured using other methods. PCC uses this process to manufacture products for aircraft engines, IGT and other aeroderivative engines, airframes, medical implants, armament, unmanned aerial vehicles and other industrial applications. PCC also manufactures high temperature carbon and ceramic composite components, including ceramic matrix composites, for use in next-generation aerospace engines.

PCC uses forging processes to manufacture components for the aerospace and power generation markets, including seamless pipe for coal-fired, industrial gas turbine and nuclear power plants, and downhole casings and tubing pipe for severe service oil and gas markets. PCC manufactures high-performance, nickel-based alloys used to produce forged components for aerospace and non-aerospace applications in such markets as oil and gas, chemical processing and pollution control. These titanium products are used to manufacture components for the commercial and military aerospace, power generation, energy and other industrial end markets.

PCC is also a leading developer and manufacturer of highly engineered fasteners, fastener systems, aerostructures and precision components, primarily for critical aerospace applications. These products are produced for the aerospace and power and energy markets, as well as for construction, automotive, heavy truck, farm machinery, mining and construction equipment, shipbuilding, machine tools, medical equipment, appliance and recreation markets. PCC has several significant customers, including aerospace original equipment manufacturers (Boeing and Airbus) and aircraft engine manufacturer suppliers (General Electric, Rolls Royce and Pratt &Whitney).

The majority of PCC’s sales are from customer orders or demand schedules pursuant to long-term agreements. Contractual terms may provide for termination by the customer, subject to payment for work performed. PCC typically does not experience significant order cancellations, although periodically it receives requests for delays in delivery schedules. In 2020, delay requests increased due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the grounding of the Boeing 737 MAX produced significant adverse effects on the PCC aerospace business in 2020. The sudden and material reductions in air travel led to aircraft build rate reductions and customer destocking at extraordinary rates. Aircraft build rates have not yet begun to recover in any meaningful way. During 2020, PCC significantly reduced its worldwide workforce by about 40% since the end of 2019 to help align operations to reduced aircraft build rates. The restructuring actions taken began to improve margins in late 2020 from the low margins experienced earlier in the year and further margin improvements are expected going forward.

PCC is subject to substantial competition in all of its markets. Components and similar products may be produced by competitors, who use either the same types of manufacturing processes as PCC or other processes. Although PCC believes its manufacturing processes, technology and experience provide advantages to its customers, such as high quality, competitive prices and physical properties that often meet more stringent demands, alternative forms of manufacturing can be used to produce many of the same components and products. Despite intense competition, PCC is a leading supplier in most of its principal markets. Several factors, including long-standing customer relationships, technical expertise, state-of-the-art facilities and dedicated employees, aid PCC in maintaining competitive advantages.

Several raw materials used in PCC products, including certain metals such as nickel, titanium, cobalt, tantalum and molybdenum, are found in only a few parts of the world. These metals are required for the alloys used in manufactured products. The availability and costs of these metals may be influenced by private or governmental cartels, changes in world politics, labor relations between the metal producers and their workforces and inflation.

K-11

 

Lubrizol Corporation

The Lubrizol Corporation (“Lubrizol”) is a specialty chemical and performance materials company that produces and supplies technologies for the global transportation, industrial and consumer markets. Lubrizol currently operates two businesses: (1) Lubrizol Additives, which includes engine lubricant additives, driveline lubricant additives and industrial specialties products; and (2) Lubrizol Advanced Materials, which includes Engineered Materials (engineered polymers and performance coatings) and Life Sciences (beauty and personal care, health and home care solutions).

Lubrizol Additives products are used in a broad range of applications including engine oils, transmission fluids, gear oils, specialty driveline lubricants, fuels, metalworking fluids, compressor lubricants and greases for transportation and industrial applications. Lubrizol Advanced Materials products are used in many different types of applications including over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, medical devices, performance coatings, personal care products, sporting goods and plumbing and fire sprinkler systems. Lubrizol is an industry leader in many of the markets in which it competes. Lubrizol’s principal lubricant additives competitors are Infineum International Ltd., Chevron Oronite Company and Afton Chemical Corporation. Advanced Materials competes in many markets with a variety of competitors in each product line.

With its considerable patent portfolio, Lubrizol uses its technological leadership position in product development and applies its science capabilities and formulation and market expertise to improve the quality and value of its products. Lubrizol leverages its scientific and applications knowledge to meet and exceed customer performance and sustainability requirements. While Lubrizol typically has patents that expire each year, it invests resources to protect its intellectual property and to develop or acquire innovative products for the markets it serves. Lubrizol uses many specialty and commodity chemical raw materials in its manufacturing processes. Raw materials are primarily feedstocks derived from petroleum and petrochemicals and, generally, are obtainable from several sources. The materials that Lubrizol chooses to purchase from a single source typically are subject to long-term supply contracts to ensure supply reliability.

Lubrizol operates its business on a global basis through more than 100 offices, laboratories, production facilities and warehouses on six continents, the most significant of which are North America, Europe, Asia and South America. Lubrizol markets its products worldwide through a direct sales organization and sales agents and distributors. Lubrizol’s customers principally consist of major global and regional oil companies and industrial and consumer products companies that are located throughout the world. Some of its largest customers also may be suppliers. During 2020, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of Lubrizol’s consolidated revenues. In 2020, the global pandemic had an adverse effect on many of the markets that Lubrizol serves, including the transportation and industrial markets. This was offset in part by strong demand for Lubrizol’s technology that is used in personal care applications, such as hand sanitizers.

Lubrizol continues to expend necessary capital to upgrade and optimize operations, ensure compliance with health, safety and environmental requirements, and increase global manufacturing capacity, while reducing the environmental footprint of its operations. Lubrizol also makes a significant investment in its human capital to ensure that it attracts, develops and retains a talented and diverse employee workforce.

Lubrizol is subject to foreign, federal, state and local laws to protect the environment, limit manufacturing waste and emissions, ensure product and employee safety and regulate trade. The company believes that its policies, practices and procedures are designed to limit the risks of non-compliance with laws and consequent financial liability. Nevertheless, the operation of manufacturing plants entails ongoing environmental and other risks, and significant costs or liabilities could be incurred in the future.

IMC International Metalworking Companies

IMC International Metalworking Companies (“IMC”) is one of the world’s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets. IMC’s principal brand names include ISCAR®, TaeguTec®, Ingersoll®, Tungaloy®, Unitac®, UOP®, It.te.di®, Qutiltec®, Tool—Flo®, PCT® and IMCO®. IMC’s primary manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, the United States, South Korea, Japan, Germany, Italy, Switzerland, India and China.

IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools, turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal cutting inserts are used by industrial manufacturers to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC manufactures hundreds of types of highly engineered inserts within each product line that are tailored to maximize productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers. IMC’s staff of scientists and engineers continuously develop and innovate products that address end user needs and requirements.

K-12

 

IMC’s global sales and marketing network operates in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world, staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC’s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machinery industries. IMC operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, the United States, Belgium, Korea, Japan, China and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained at local IMC offices to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.

IMC competes in the metal cutting tools segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufacturers of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinational businesses (such as Sandvik and Kennametal, Inc.) with a wide assortment of products and extensive distribution networks. Other manufacturing companies such as Kyocera, Mitsubishi, Sumitomo, Ceratizit and Korloy also play a significant role in the cutting tool market.

Marmon Holdings

Marmon Holdings, Inc. (“Marmon”) is a global industrial organization comprising 11 diverse business sectors and more than 100 autonomous manufacturing and service businesses. Marmon’s manufacturing and service operations are conducted at approximately 400 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities located primarily in the United States, as well as 22 other countries worldwide. Marmon’s business sectors are described as follows.

Foodservice Technologies manufactures beverage dispensing and cooling equipment, hot and cold food preparation and holding equipment and related products for restaurants, global brand owners and other foodservice providers. Operations are based in the U.S. with manufacturing in the U.S., Mexico, China, the U.K., Germany and Italy. Products are sold primarily throughout the U.S., Europe and Asia.

Water Technologies manufactures water treatment equipment for residential, commercial and industrial applications worldwide. Operations are based primarily in the U.S., Canada, China, Singapore, India and Mexico with business centers located in Belgium, France, Poland, Germany, the U.K., Italy, Switzerland and U.A.E.

Transportation Products serves the automotive, heavy-duty highway transportation, and aerospace industries with precision-molded plastic components; fastener thread solutions; metal tubing; auto aftermarket transmission and chassis products; platform and lowbed trailers; and truck and trailer components. Operations and business are conducted primarily in the U.S., Mexico, Canada, Europe and Asia.

Retail Solutions provides retail environment design services; in-store digital merchandising, dispensing and display fixtures; shopping, material handling and security carts. Operations and business are conducted in the U.S., U.K. and Czech Republic.

Metal Services provides specialty metal pipe, tubing and related value-added services to customers across a broad range of industries. Operations are based in the U.S., Canada and Mexico and business is conducted primarily in those countries.

Electrical produces electrical wire for use in residential and commercial buildings, and specialty wire and cable for use in energy, transit, aerospace, defense, communication and other industrial applications. Operations are based in the U.S., Canada, India and England. Business is conducted globally and primarily in the U.S., Canada, India, the U.K., U.A.E. and China.

Plumbing & Refrigeration supplies copper tubing and copper, brass, aluminum and stainless-steel fittings and components for the plumbing, HVAC and refrigeration markets; custom coils for the HVAC market; and aluminum and brass forgings for many commercial and industrial applications. Business and operations are conducted primarily in the U.S.

Industrial Products supplies construction fasteners; gloves and other protective wear; gear drives, gearboxes, fan drives and pump drives for various markets; wind machines for agricultural use; and wheels, axles, and gears for rail, mining and other applications. Operations are primarily based in the U.S., Canada and China and business is conducted in those countries.

Rail & Leasing manufactures, leases and maintains railcars; leases intermodal tank containers; manufactures mobile railcar movers; provides in-plant rail switching and loading services; performs track construction and maintenance; and manufactures steel tank heads and cylinders.

Union Tank Car Company (“UTLX”) is the largest component of Rail & Leasing and is a leading designer, builder and full-service lessor of railroad tank cars and other specialized railcars. Together with its Canadian affiliate Procor, UTLX owns a fleet of approximately 124,000 railcars for lease to customers in chemical, petrochemical, energy and agricultural/food industries. UTLX manufactures tank cars in the U.S. and performs railcar maintenance services at more than 100 locations across North America.

K-13

 

UTLX has a diversified customer base, both geographically and across industries. UTLX, while subject to cyclicality and significant competition in most of its markets, competes by offering a broad range of high-quality products and services targeted at its niche markets. Railcars are typically leased for multiple-year terms and most of the leases are renewed upon expiration. Due to selective ongoing capital investment, utilization rates (the number of railcars on lease as a percentage of the total fleet) of the railcar fleet are generally high.

Intermodal tank containers are leased through EXSIF Worldwide. EXSIF is a leading international lessor of intermodal tank containers with a fleet of approximately 69,000 units, primarily serving chemical producers and logistics operators.

Crane Services is a provider of mobile cranes and operators in North America and Australia. Sterling Crane, Joyce Crane, Freo Group, and WGC Cranes operate a combined fleet of approximately 1,200 cranes primarily serving the energy, mining, petrochemical and infrastructure markets.

Medical (formed in 2019 through the acquisition of the Colson Medical Companies) develops, manufactures and distributes a wide range of innovative medical devices in the extremities fixation, craniomaxillofacial surgery, neurosurgery, biologics, aesthetics and powered instruments markets. The sector’s leading-edge medical technology and products are used globally to help improve patient care and outcomes. Operations are based in the U.S., Europe and China. Business is conducted primarily in North and South America, Europe, Asia and Australia.

Other industrial products

CTB International Corp. (“CTB”), headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading global designer, manufacturer and marketer of a wide range of agricultural systems and solutions for preserving grain, producing poultry, pigs and eggs, and for processing poultry, fish, vegetables and other foods. CTB operates from facilities located around the globe and supports customers through a worldwide network of independent distributors and dealers.

CTB competes with a variety of manufacturers and suppliers, many of which offer only a limited number of the products offered by CTB and two of which offer products across many of CTB’s product lines. Competition is based on the price, value, reputation, quality and design of the products offered and the customer service provided by distributors, dealers and manufacturers of the products. CTB’s leading brand names, distribution network, diversified product line, product support and high-quality products enable it to compete effectively. CTB manufactures its products primarily from galvanized steel, steel wire, stainless steel and polymer materials and supplies of these materials have been sufficient in recent years.

LiquidPower Specialty Products Inc. (“LSPI”), headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a global leader in the science of drag reduction application (“DRA’) technology by maximizing the flow potential of pipelines, increasing operational flexibility and throughput capacity, and efficiencies for customers. LSPI develops innovative flow improver solutions with customers in over 40 countries on six continents, treating over 50 million barrels of hydrocarbon liquids per day. LSPI’s DRA offering is part of a comprehensive, full-service solution that encompasses industry-leading technology, quality manufacturing, technical support and consulting, a reliable supply chain, injection equipment and field service. The Scott Fetzer companies are a group of businesses that manufacture, distribute, service and finance a wide variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use.

Building Products

Clayton Homes

Clayton Homes, Inc. (“Clayton”), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated housing company offering traditional site-built homes and off-site built housing – including modular homes, manufactured homes, CrossMod™ homes and tiny homes. In 2020, Clayton delivered 46,765 off-site built and 9,475 site-built homes. Clayton also offers home financing and insurance products and competes on price, service, location and delivery capabilities.

All Clayton Built® off-site homes are designed, engineered and assembled in the United States. As of December 2020, off-site backlog was $1.3 billion, up 237% from prior year. Clayton sells its homes through independent and company owned home centers, realtors and subdivision channels. Clayton considers its ability to make financing available to retail purchasers, a factor affecting the market acceptance of its off-site built homes. Clayton’s financing programs utilize proprietary loan underwriting guidelines, which include ability to repay calculations, including debt to income limits, consideration of residual income and credit score requirements, which are considered in evaluating loan applicants.

Since 2015, Clayton’s site-built division, Clayton Properties Group, has expanded through the acquisition of nine builders across 14 states with a total of 312 subdivisions, supplementing the portfolio of housing products offered to customers. Clayton’s site-builders currently own and control a total of 62,514 homesites, with a home order backlog of approximately $2.2 billion.

K-14

 

Shaw Industries

Shaw Industries Group, Inc. (“Shaw”), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is a leading manufacturer and distributor of carpet and flooring products. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,800 styles of tufted carpet, wood and resilient flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw also provides project management and installation services. Shaw’s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the finishing of carpet. In 2018, Shaw acquired Sanquahar Tile Services in Scotland, which manufactures and distributes carpet tile throughout Europe. Shaw also manufactures or distributes a variety of hardwood, wood plastic composite (WPC), stone plastic composite (SPC) and vinyl and laminate floor products (“hard surfaces”). Shaw’s soft and hard surface products are sold in a broad range of patterns, colors and textures. Shaw operates Shaw Sports Turf and Southwest Greens International, LLC, which provide synthetic sports turf, golf greens and landscape turf products.

Shaw products are sold wholesale to over 47,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico and are also exported to various overseas markets. Shaw’s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 2,100 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw’s seven carpet, nine hard surface, one sample full-service distribution facility, three sample satellite locations and 30 redistribution centers, along with centralized management information systems, enable it to provide prompt and efficient delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.

Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops, which may be cut or left uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2020, Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials is adequate but costs are impacted by petro-chemical and natural gas price changes. Raw material cost changes are periodically factored into selling prices to customers.

The soft floor covering industry is highly competitive with only a handful of key players domestically where the majority of Shaw’s business occurs. There are numerous manufacturers, domestically and internationally, that are engaged in hard surface floor covering production, distribution and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 44% of the total United States consumption of all flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.

Johns Manville

Johns Manville (“JM”), headquartered in Denver, Colorado, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical and industrial insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe and equipment, filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring, interiors and wind energy. Fiberglass is the basic material in a majority of JM’s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. Raw materials are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources for JM to maintain and expand its current production levels. JM regards its patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM operates over 40 manufacturing facilities in North America, Europe and China and conducts research and development at its technical center in Littleton, Colorado and at other facilities in the U.S. and Europe.

Fiberglass is made from earthen raw materials and recycled glass, together with proprietary agents to bind many of its glass fibers. JM’s products also contain materials other than fiberglass, including various chemical and petrochemical-based materials used in roofing and other specialized products. JM uses recycled material when available and suitable to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. The raw materials used in these various products are readily available in sufficient quantities from various sources to maintain and expand its current production levels.

JM’s operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, which regulate or impose liability for the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances and use of chemical substances generally. The most relevant of the federal laws are the Federal Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which are administered by the EPA. Canadian, European and Asian regulatory authorities have also adopted their own environmental laws and regulations. JM continually monitors new and pending regulations and assesses their potential impact on the business.

K-15

 

JM sells its products through a wide variety of channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM operates in highly competitive markets, with competitors comprising primarily several large global and national manufacturers and smaller regional manufacturers. JM holds leadership positions in the key markets that it serves. JM’s products compete primarily on value, differentiation and customization, and breadth of product line. Sales of JM’s products are moderately seasonal due to increases in construction activity that typically occur in the second and third quarters of the calendar year. JM sees a marketplace trend in customer purchasing decisions being influenced by the sustainable and energy efficient attributes of its products, services and operations.

MiTek Industries, Inc.

MiTek Industries, Inc. (“MiTek”), based in Chesterfield, Missouri, operates in two separate markets: residential and commercial. MiTek operates worldwide with sales in over 100 countries and with manufacturing facilities and/or sales/engineering offices located in 21 countries.

In the residential segment, MiTek is a leading supplier of engineered connector products, construction hardware, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss component market of the building components industry. MiTek’s primary customers are component manufacturers who manufacture prefabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market. MiTek also sells construction hardware to commercial distributors and do-it-yourself retail stores.

MiTek’s commercial businesses provide products and services sold to the commercial construction industry. Commercial products include curtain wall systems, masonry and stone anchoring systems, light gauge steel framing products, engineering services for a proprietary high-performance steel frame connection and a comprehensive range of ductwork for the ventilation market, customized air handling systems for commercial, institutional and industrial markets, design and supply of nuclear safety related HVAC systems and components, energy recovery and dehumidification systems for commercial applications and pre-engineered and pre-fabricated custom structural mezzanines and platforms for distribution and manufacturing facilities.

A significant raw material used by MiTek is hot dipped galvanized sheet steel. While supplies are presently adequate, variations in supply have historically occurred, producing significant variations in cost and availability.

Benjamin Moore

Benjamin Moore & Co. (“Benjamin Moore”), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is one of North America's leading manufacturers of premium quality residential, commercial and industrial maintenance coatings. Benjamin Moore is committed to innovation and sustainable manufacturing practices. The Benjamin Moore premium portfolio spans the brand’s flagship paint lines including Aura®, Regal® Select, Ultra Spec®, ben®, ADVANCE®, ARBORCOAT® and more. The Benjamin Moore diversified brands include specialty and architectural paints from Coronado®, Insl-x® and Lenmar®. Benjamin Moore coatings are available from its more than 7,500 independently owned and operated paint, decorating and hardware retailers throughout the United States and Canada as well as 75 countries globally. In July 2019, Benjamin Moore announced the expansion of its relationship with Ace Hardware (“Ace”), through which Benjamin Moore has become the preferred paint supplier for approximately 3,300 Ace Hardware stores, which are included in the count above. Through this agreement, these Ace stores are afforded the opportunity to carry a full line premium assortment of Benjamin Moore products or a streamlined offering of Regal® Select and ben®, or ben® only branded products. As part of the expansion, Benjamin Moore assumed responsibility for manufacturing Clark+Kensington® and Royal®, as well as the balance of Ace’s private label paint brands.

In addition, Benjamin Moore operates an online “pick up in store” program, which allows consumers to place orders via an e-commerce site or, for national accounts and government agencies, via its customer information center. These orders may be picked up at the customer’s nearest retailer or delivered. For national accounts, drop-ship orders can be fulfilled by Benjamin Moore if a minimum gallon threshold is met.

Benjamin Moore competes with numerous manufacturers, distributors and paint, coatings and related products retailers. Product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, service and price determine the competitive advantage. Competitors include other paint and decorating stores, mass merchandisers, home centers, independent hardware stores, hardware chains and manufacturer-operated direct outlets, such as Sherwin-Williams Company, PPG Industries, Inc., The Valspar Corporation, The Home Depot, Inc. and Lowe’s Companies, Inc.

The most significant raw materials in Benjamin Moore products are titanium dioxide, monomers, polymers and pigments. Historically, these materials have been generally available, with pricing and availability subject to fluctuation.

K-16

 

Acme Brick

Acme Brick Company (“Acme”), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks (Acme Brick®) and concrete block (Featherlite). In addition, Acme distributes numerous other building products of other manufacturers, including floor and wall tile, wood flooring and other masonry products. Products are sold primarily in the South Central and South Eastern United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.

In 2018 and 2019, Acme closed multiple underperforming manufacturing and sales facilities. Acme operates 12 clay brick manufacturing sites located in four states, three concrete block facilities and a quarrying operation all located in Texas. The demand for Acme’s products is seasonal, with higher sales in the warmer weather months, and is subject to the level of construction activity, which is cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Acme’s raw materials supply is believed to be adequate.

The brick industry is subject to the EPA Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards (“MACT”). As required under the 1990 Clean Air Act, the EPA developed a list of source categories that require the development of National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants, which are also referred to as MACT Standards (“Rule”). Key elements of the MACT Rule include emission limits established for certain hazardous air pollutants and acidic gases. Acme’s brick plants are in compliance with the current Rule.

Consumer Products

Apparel

Fruit of the Loom (“FOL”), headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, is primarily a manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear, casualwear, athletic apparel and sports equipment. Products under the Fruit of the Loom® and JERZEES® labels are primarily sold in the mass merchandise, mid-tier chains and wholesale markets. In the Vanity Fair Brands product line, Vassarette®, Curvation® and Radiant® by Vanity Fair are sold in the mass merchandise market, while Vanity Fair® and Lily of France® products are sold to mid-tier chains and department stores. FOL also markets and sells apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the Russell Athletic® and Spalding® brands. Additionally, Spalding® markets and sells balls and sports equipment in the mass merchandise market and dollar store channels. In 2020, approximately 58% of FOL’s sales were to five customers.

FOL generally performs its own knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging for apparel. For the North American market, which is FOL’s predominant sales region, the majority of FOL’s cloth manufacturing is performed in Honduras. Labor-intensive cutting, sewing and packaging operations are located in Central America, the Caribbean and Vietnam. For the European market, products are either sourced from third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally produced in Morocco. Manufacturing of bras, athletic equipment, sporting goods and other athletic apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.

U.S. grown cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw materials used in the manufacturing of FOL’s apparel products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers. In 2015, FOL entered into an eight-year agreement with one key supplier to provide the majority of FOL’s yarn. Management currently believes there are readily available alternative sources of raw materials and yarn. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. Additionally, raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. FOL has secured contracts to purchase cotton, either directly or through the yarn suppliers, to meet a large percentage of its production plans for 2021. FOL’s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Competition is generally based upon product features, quality, customer service and price.

Garan, headquartered in New York, New York designs, manufactures, imports and sells apparel primarily for children, including boys, girls, toddlers and infants. Products are sold under its own trademark Garanimals® and customer private label brands. Garan conducts its business through operating subsidiaries located in the United States, Central America and Asia. Garan’s products are sold through its distribution centers in the United States. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets, including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.

K-17

 

The BH Shoe Holdings Group, headquartered in Greenwich, Connecticut, manufactures and distributes work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Tony Lama®, Chippewa®, BØRN®, B•Ø•C®, Carolina®, EuroSofft, Söfft, Double-H Boots®, Nursemates® and Comfortiva®. Brooks Sports, headquartered in Seattle, Washington, markets and sells performance running footwear and apparel to specialty and national retailers and directly to consumers under the Brooks® brand. A significant volume of the shoes sold by Berkshire’s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources located outside the United States. Products are sold worldwide through a variety of channels including department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.

Other consumer products

Forest River, Inc. (“Forest River”) is a manufacturer of recreational vehicles (“RV”), utility cargo trailers, buses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana with products sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has numerous manufacturing facilities located in seven states. Forest River is a leading manufacturer of RVs with numerous brand names, including Forest River, Coachmen RV and Prime Time. Utility cargo trailers are sold under a variety of brand names. Buses are sold under several brand names, including Starcraft Bus. Pontoon boats are sold under the Berkshire, South Bay and Trifecta brand names. The RV industry is very competitive. Competition is based primarily on price, design, quality and service. The industry has consolidated over the past several years and is currently concentrated in a few companies, the largest of which had a market share of approximately 42% based on industry data as of December 2020. Forest River held a market share of approximately 37% at that time.

The Duracell Company (“Duracell’), headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, is a leading manufacturer of high-performance alkaline batteries. Duracell manufactures batteries in the U.S., Europe and China and provides a network of worldwide sales and distribution centers. Costco and Walmart are significant customers, representing approximately 23% of Duracell’s annual revenue. There are several competitors in the battery manufacturing market with Duracell holding an approximately 31% market share of the global alkaline battery market. Management believes there are currently sufficient sources of raw materials available, which are primarily steel, zinc and manganese.

Albecca Inc. (“Albecca”), headquartered in Norcross, Georgia, operates in the U.S., Canada and 12 other countries, with products primarily under the Larson-Juhl® name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass and framing supplies. Complementary to its framing products, Albecca offers art printing and fulfillment services.

Richline Group, Inc., headquartered in New York, New York, operates five strategic business units: Richline Jewelry, Richline Digital, LeachGarner, Rio Grande and Inverness. Each business unit is a manufacturer and/or distributor of precious metal and non-precious metal products to specific target markets including large jewelry chains, department stores, shopping networks, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and artisans plus worldwide manufacturers and wholesalers and the medical, electronics and aerospace industries.

Service and Retailing Businesses

Service Businesses

Berkshire’s service businesses provide grocery and foodservice distribution, professional aviation training programs, shared aircraft ownership programs and distribution of electronic components. Other service businesses include franchising and servicing of quick service restaurants, media businesses (television and information distribution), as well as logistics businesses. Berkshire’s service businesses employed approximately 45,000 people at the end of 2020. Information concerning these activities follows.

McLane Company

McLane Company, Inc. (“McLane”) provides wholesale distribution services in all 50 states to customers that include convenience stores, discount retailers, wholesale clubs, drug stores, military bases, quick service restaurants and casual dining restaurants. McLane provides wholesale distribution services to Walmart, which accounted for approximately 18% of McLane’s revenues in 2020. McLane’s other significant customers include 7-Eleven (approximately 13% of revenues) and Yum! Brands, (approximately 11% of revenues). McLane’s business model is based on a high volume of sales, rapid inventory turnover and stringent expense controls. Operations are currently divided into three business units: grocery distribution, foodservice distribution and beverage distribution.

K-18

 

McLane’s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, maintains a dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to approximately 50,000 retail locations nationwide, including Walmart. McLane’s grocery distribution unit operates 25 distribution facilities in 20 states.

McLane’s foodservice distribution unit, based in Carrollton, Texas, focuses on serving the quick service and casual dining restaurant industry with high quality, timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 46 facilities in 22 states. The foodservice distribution unit services approximately 33,200 restaurants nationwide.

Through its subsidiaries, McLane also operates wholesale distributors of distilled spirits, wine and beer. The beverage unit operates as Empire Distributors and operations are conducted through 14 distribution centers in Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Colorado. Empire Distributors services approximately 25,600 retail locations in the southeastern United States and Colorado.

FlightSafety International

FlightSafety International Inc. (“FlightSafety”) is an industry leading provider of professional aviation training services and flight simulation products. FlightSafety and FlightSafety Textron Aviation Training, a joint venture with Textron which began operations in 2019, provide high technology training to pilots, aircraft maintenance technicians, flight attendants and dispatchers who operate and support a wide variety of business, commercial and military aircraft. The training is provided using a large fleet of advanced full flight simulators at learning centers and training locations in the United States, Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, Hong Kong, Japan, Norway, South Africa and the United Kingdom. The vast majority of the instructors, training programs and flight simulators are qualified by the United States Federal Aviation Administration and other aviation regulatory agencies around the world.

FlightSafety is also a leader in the design and manufacture of full flight simulators, visual systems, displays and other advanced technology training devices. This equipment is used to support FlightSafety training programs and is offered for sale to airlines and government and military organizations around the world. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma, Missouri and Texas. FlightSafety strives to maintain and manufacture simulators and develop courseware using state-of-the-art technology and invests in research and development as it builds new equipment and training programs.

NetJets

NetJets Inc. (“NetJets”) is the world’s leading provider of shared ownership programs for general aviation aircraft. NetJets’ global headquarters is located in Columbus, Ohio, with most of its logistical and flight operations based at John Glenn Columbus International Airport. NetJets’ European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal. The shared ownership concept is designed to meet the travel needs of customers who require the scale, flexibility and access of a large fleet that whole aircraft ownership cannot deliver. In addition, shared ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or add capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft.

With a focus on safety and service, NetJets’ programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, predictable operating costs and increased liquidity. NetJets’ shared aircraft ownership programs permit customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows customers to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours annually. In addition, NetJets offers prepaid flight cards and other aviation solutions and services for aircraft management, customized aircraft sales and acquisition, ground support and flight operation services under a number of programs including NetJets Shares™, NetJets Leases™ and the Marquis Jet Card®.

NetJets is subject to the rules and regulations of the United States Federal Aviation Administration, the Portuguese Civil Aviation Authority and the European Union Aviation Safety Agency. Regulations address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues and other matters. NetJets maintains a comprehensive training and development program in compliance with regulatory requirements for pilots, flight attendants, maintenance mechanics, and other flight operations specialists.

TTI, Inc.

TTI, Inc. (“TTI”), headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect, electromechanical, discrete, and semiconductor components used by customers in the manufacturing and assembling of electronic products. TTI’s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, electronic manufacturing services, original design manufacturers and military and commercial customers, as well as design and system engineers. TTI’s distribution agreements with the industry’s leading suppliers allow it to uniquely leverage its product cost and to expand its business by providing new lines and products to its customers. TTI operates sales offices and distribution centers from more than 100 locations throughout North America, Europe, Asia and Israel.

K-19

 

TTI services a variety of industries including telecommunications, medical devices, computers and office equipment, military/aerospace, automotive and industrial electronics. TTI’s core customers include businesses in the design through production stages in the electronic component supply chain, which supports its high-volume business, and its Mouser subsidiary, which supports a broader base of customers with lower volume purchases through internet-based marketing.

Other services

XTRA Corporation (“XTRA”), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease® brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 86,000 units located at 48 facilities throughout the United States. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage trailers, chassis, temperature-controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing equipment. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity to its customers, XTRA’s utilization rates and operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad selection of equipment and quick response times.

International Dairy Queen develops and services a worldwide system of over 7,000 franchised restaurants operating primarily under the names DQ Grill and Chill®, Dairy Queen® and Orange Julius® that offer various dairy desserts, beverages, prepared foods and blended fruit drinks. Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases to the media, online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and in 45 languages. Approximately 93% of Business Wire’s revenues derive from its core news distribution business. CORT Business Services Corporation is a leading national provider of rental furniture and related services in the “rent-to-rent” segment of the furniture rental industry. CORT’s primary revenue streams include furniture rental to individuals, businesses, government agencies, the trade show and events industry and retail sales of used furniture. WPLG, Inc. is an ABC affiliate broadcast station in Miami, Florida and Charter Brokerage is a leading non-asset based third party logistics provider to the petroleum and chemical industries. Until March 2020, other services included the newspaper publishing businesses conducted through The Buffalo News and BH Media Group, Inc. These operations were sold in 2020.

Retailing Businesses

Berkshire’s retailing businesses include automotive, home furnishings and several other operations that sell various consumer products to consumers. Information regarding each of these operations follows. Berkshire’s retailing businesses employed approximately 25,000 people at the end of 2020.

Berkshire Hathaway Automotive

The Berkshire Hathaway Automotive Group, Inc. (“BHA”) is one of the largest automotive retailers in the United States, currently operating 104 new vehicle franchises through 81 dealerships located primarily in major metropolitan markets in the United States. The dealerships sell new and used vehicles, vehicle maintenance and repair services, extended service contracts, vehicle protection products and other aftermarket products. BHA also arranges financing for its customers through third-party lenders. BHA operates 29 collision centers directly connected to the dealerships’ operations and owns and operates two auto auctions and a fluid maintenance products distribution company.

Dealership operations are highly concentrated in the Arizona and Texas markets, with approximately 70% of dealership-related revenues derived from sales in these markets. BHA currently maintains franchise agreements with 27 different vehicle manufacturers, although it derives a significant portion of its revenue from the Toyota/Lexus, General Motors, Ford/Lincoln, Nissan/Infiniti and Honda/Acura brands. Approximately 90% of BHA’s annual revenues are from dealerships representing these manufacturers.

The retail automotive industry is highly competitive. BHA faces competition from other large public and private dealership groups, as well as individual franchised dealerships and competition via the Internet. Given the pricing transparency available via the Internet, and the fact that franchised dealers acquire vehicles from the manufacturers on the same terms irrespective of volume, the location and quality of the dealership facility, customer service and transaction speed are key differentiators in attracting customers.

BHA’s overall relationships with the automobile manufacturers are governed by framework agreements. The framework agreements contain provisions relating to the management, operation, acquisition and the ownership structure of BHA’s dealerships. Failure to meet the terms of these agreements could adversely impact BHA’s ability to acquire additional dealerships representing those manufacturers. Additionally, these agreements contain limitations on the number of dealerships from a specific manufacturer that may be owned by BHA.

K-20

 

Individual dealerships operate under franchise agreements with the manufacturer, which grants the dealership entity a non-exclusive right to sell the manufacturer’s brand of vehicles and offer related parts and service within a specified market area, as well as the right to use the manufacturer’s trademarks. The agreements contain various requirements and restrictions related to the management and operation of the franchised dealership and provide for termination of the agreement by the manufacturer or non-renewal for a variety of causes. The states generally have automotive dealership franchise laws that provide substantial protection to the franchisee, and it is difficult for a manufacturer to terminate or not renew a franchise agreement outside of bankruptcy or with “good cause” under the applicable state franchise law.

BHA also develops, underwrites and administers various vehicle protection plans as well as life and accident and health insurance plans sold to consumers through BHA’s dealerships and third-party dealerships. BHA also develops proprietary training programs and materials and provides ongoing monitoring and training of the dealership’s finance and insurance personnel.

Home furnishings retailing

The home furnishings businesses consist of Nebraska Furniture Mart (“NFM”), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings (“R.C. Willey”), Star Furniture Company (“Star”) and Jordan’s Furniture, Inc. (“Jordan’s”). These businesses offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and other home furnishings and offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business volume by offering significant value to their customers.

NFM operates its business from four retail complexes with almost 4.5 million square feet of retail, warehouse and administrative facilities located in Omaha, Nebraska, Clive, Iowa, Kansas City, Kansas and The Colony, Texas. NFM also owns Homemakers Furniture located in Urbandale, Iowa, which has approximately 600,000 square feet of retail, warehouse and administrative space. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in each of these markets. R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, currently operates twelve full-line retail home furnishings stores and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.5 million square feet of retail space with six stores located in Utah, one store in Meridian, Idaho, three stores in Nevada (Las Vegas and Reno) and two stores in the Sacramento, California area.

Jordan’s operates a retail furniture business from seven locations with approximately 890,000 square feet of retail space in stores located in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Maine and Connecticut. The retail stores are supported by an 800,000 square foot distribution center in Taunton, Massachusetts. Jordan’s is the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan’s is well known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns. Star has operated home furnishings retail stores in Texas for many years. Star’s retail facilities currently include about 700,000 square feet of retail space in 11 locations in Texas, including eight in Houston.

Other retailing

Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. (“Borsheims”) operates from a single store in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high-volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg’s Diamond Shops, LLC. (“Helzberg”) is based in North Kansas City, Missouri, and operates a chain of 213 retail jewelry stores in 36 states, which includes approximately 500,000 square feet of retail space. Helzberg’s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers, power strip centers and outlet malls, and all stores operate under the name Helzberg Diamonds® or Helzberg Diamonds Outlet®. The Ben Bridge Corporation (“Ben Bridge Jeweler”), based in Seattle, Washington, operates 75 retail jewelry stores under three different brand names, located primarily in major shopping malls in 10 western states and in British Columbia, Canada. Thirty-six of its retail locations are upscale jewelry stores selling loose diamonds, finished jewelry and high-end timepieces. Thirty-eight of its retail locations are concept stores operating under a franchise agreement that sell only Pandora jewelry. One store is a Breitling concept store, selling only Breitling timepieces.

See’s Candies (“See’s”) produces boxed chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco and one smaller facility in Burlingame, California. See’s operates approximately 250 retail and quantity discount stores located mainly in California and other Western states, as well as over 110 seasonal in-line locations. See’s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately half of its annual revenues earned in the fourth quarter.

The Pampered Chef, Ltd. (“Pampered Chef”) is a premier direct seller of distinctive high-quality kitchenware products with sales and operations in the United States, Canada, Germany, Austria and France and operations in China. Pampered Chef’s product portfolio consists of approximately 650 Pampered Chef® branded kitchenware items in categories ranging from stoneware and cutlery to grilling and entertaining. Pampered Chef’s products are available through its sales force of independent cooking consultants and online.

K-21

 

Oriental Trading Company (“OTC”) is a leading multi-channel retailer and online destination for value-priced party supplies, arts and crafts, toys and novelties, school supplies, educational games, patient giveaways and personalized products. OTC, headquartered in Omaha, Nebraska, serves a broad base of nearly four million customers annually, including consumers, schools, churches, non-profit organizations, medical and dental offices and other businesses. OTC offers a unique assortment of over 50,000 products and utilizes sophisticated digital and print marketing efforts to drive significant traffic and industry leading customer satisfaction.

Detlev Louis Motorrad (“Louis”), headquartered in Hamburg, Germany, is a leading retailer of motorcycle apparel and equipment in Europe. Louis carries over 32,000 different products from more than 600 manufacturers, primarily covering the clothing, technical equipment and leisure markets. Louis has over 80 stores in Germany, Austria, Switzerland and the Netherlands and also sells through catalogs and via the Internet throughout most of Europe.

Additional information with respect to Berkshire’s businesses

Revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to Berkshire’s reportable business segments are included in Note 27 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Berkshire’s investments in fixed maturity and equity securities is included in Notes 3 and 4, respectively, to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire owns 26.6% of the outstanding common stock of The Kraft Heinz Company (“Kraft Heinz”). Kraft Heinz is one of the largest food and beverage companies in the world, with sales in numerous countries within developed and emerging markets and territories. Kraft Heinz manufactures and markets food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee and other grocery products, throughout the world, under a diverse mix of iconic and emerging brands. Berkshire subsidiaries also own a 50% joint venture interest in Berkadia Commercial Mortgage LLC (“Berkadia”), a 38.6% interest in Pilot Travel Centers LLC (“Pilot”) and a 50% joint venture interest in Electric Transmission Texas, LLC (“ETT”). Information concerning these investments is included in Note 5 to Berkshire’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Berkshire maintains a website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries’ websites can be found. Berkshire’s periodic reports filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC’s website (http://www.sec.gov) and indirectly through Berkshire’s website (http://www.berkshirehathaway.com). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. 
