General
BXP, a Delaware corporation organized in 1997, is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed REIT, and is one of the largest publicly-traded office REITs (based on total market capitalization as of December 31, 2020) in the United States that develops, owns and manages primarily Class A office properties.
Our properties are concentrated in five markets—Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC. At December 31, 2020, we owned or had joint venture interests in a portfolio of 196 commercial real estate properties, aggregating approximately 51.2 million net rentable square feet of primarily Class A office properties, including six properties under construction/redevelopment totaling approximately 3.7 million net rentable square feet. As of December 31, 2020, our properties consisted of:
 
•177 office properties (including six properties under construction/redevelopment);
•12 retail properties;
•six residential properties; and
•one hotel.
We consider Class A office properties to be well-located buildings that are modern structures or have been modernized to compete with newer buildings and professionally managed and maintained. As such, these properties attract high-quality tenants and command upper-tier rental rates. Our definition of Class A office properties may be different than those used by other companies.
We are a full-service real estate company, with substantial in-house expertise and resources in acquisitions, development, financing, capital markets, construction management, property management, marketing, leasing, accounting, risk management, tax and legal services. BXP manages BPLP as its sole general partner. Our principal executive office and Boston regional office are located at The Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199 and our telephone number is (617) 236-3300. In addition, we have regional offices at 3250 Ocean Park Boulevard, Suite 300, Santa Monica, California 90405, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, Four Embarcadero Center, San Francisco, California 94111 and 2200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20037.
Our internet address is http://www.bxp.com. On our website, you can obtain free copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. You may also obtain BXP’s and BPLP’s reports by accessing the EDGAR database at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov, or we will furnish an electronic or paper copy of these reports free of charge upon written request to: Investor Relations, Boston Properties, Inc., Prudential Center, 800 Boylston Street, Suite 1900, Boston, Massachusetts 02199. “Boston Properties” is a registered trademark and the “bxp” logo is a trademark, in both cases, owned by BPLP.
Boston Properties Limited Partnership
BPLP is a Delaware limited partnership organized in 1997, and the entity through which BXP conducts substantially all of its business and owns, either directly or through subsidiaries, substantially all of its assets. BXP is the sole general partner of BPLP and, as of February 22, 2021, the owner of approximately 89.8% of the economic interests in BPLP. Economic interest was calculated as the number of common partnership units of BPLP owned by BXP as a percentage of the sum of (1) the actual aggregate number of outstanding common partnership units of BPLP and (2) the number of common units issuable upon conversion of all outstanding long term incentive plan units of BPLP, or LTIP Units, for which all performance conditions have been satisfied for such conversion. We exclude from (1) and (2) above other LTIP Units issued in the form of Multi-Year Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards in 2019 or later (“MYLTIP Awards”), which remain subject to performance conditions. An LTIP Unit is generally the economic equivalent of a share of BXP’s restricted common stock, although LTIP Units issued in the form of MYLTIP Awards are only entitled to receive one-tenth (1/10th) of the regular quarterly distributions (and no special distributions) prior to being earned.
Preferred units of BPLP have the rights, preferences and other privileges set forth in an amendment to the limited partnership agreement of BPLP. As of December 31, 2020 and February 22, 2021, BPLP had one series of
2
Table of Contents
Preferred Units outstanding consisting of 80,000 Series B Preferred Units. The Series B Preferred Units have a liquidation preference of $2,500 per share (or an aggregate of approximately $193.6 million at December 31, 2020 and February 22, 2021, after deducting the underwriting discount and transaction expenses). The Series B Preferred Units were issued by BPLP on March 27, 2013 in connection with BXP’s issuance of 80,000 shares (8,000,000 depositary shares each representing 1/100th of a share) of 5.25% Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock (the “Series B Preferred Stock”). BXP contributed the net proceeds from the offering to BPLP in exchange for Series B Preferred Units having rights, performance and privileges generally mirroring those of the Series B Preferred Stock. BXP will pay cumulative cash dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock at a rate of 5.25% per annum of the $2,500 liquidation preference per share. On and after March 27, 2018, BXP, at its option, may redeem the Series B Preferred Stock for a cash redemption price of $2,500 per share, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends. The Series B Preferred Stock is not redeemable by the holders, has no maturity date and is not convertible into any other security of ours or our affiliates.
Transactions During 2020
Dispositions
For information explaining why BXP and BPLP may report different gains on sales of real estate, see the Explanatory Note that follows the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
On January 28, 2020, we entered into a joint venture with a third party to own, operate and develop properties at our Gateway Commons complex located in South San Francisco, California. We contributed our 601, 611 and 651 Gateway properties and development rights with an agreed upon value aggregating approximately $350.0 million for our 50% interest in the joint venture. 601, 611 and 651 Gateway consist of three Class A office properties aggregating approximately 768,000 net rentable square feet. The partner contributed three properties and development rights with an agreed upon value aggregating approximately $280.8 million at closing and will contribute cash totaling approximately $69.2 million in the future for its 50% ownership interest in the joint venture. As a result of the partner’s deferred contribution, we have an initial approximately 55% interest in the joint venture. Future development projects will be owned 49% by us and 51% by our partner. Upon the partner’s contribution, we ceased accounting for the joint venture entity on a consolidated basis and are accounting for the joint venture entity on an unconsolidated basis using the equity method of accounting, as we have reduced our ownership interest in the joint venture entity and no longer have a controlling financial or operating interest in the joint venture entity (See Note 6). We recognized a gain on the retained and sold interest in the real estate contributed to the joint venture totaling approximately $217.7 million for BXP and $222.4 million for BPLP during the year ended December 31, 2020 within Gains on Sales of Real Estate on the respective Consolidated Statements of Operations, as the fair value of the real estate exceeded its carrying value (See “Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures” below).
On February 20, 2020, we completed the sale of New Dominion Technology Park located in Herndon, Virginia for a gross sale price of $256.0 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $254.0 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $192.3 million for BXP and approximately $197.1 million for BPLP. New Dominion Technology Park is comprised of two Class A office properties aggregating approximately 493,000 net rentable square feet.
On June 25, 2020, we completed the sale of a portion of our Capital Gallery property located in Washington, DC for a gross sale price of approximately $253.7 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $246.6 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $203.5 million for BXP and approximately $207.0 million for BPLP. Capital Gallery is an approximately 631,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property. The portion sold was comprised of approximately 455,000 net rentable square feet of commercial office space. We continue to own the land, underground parking garage and remaining commercial office and retail space containing approximately 176,000 net rentable square feet at the property.
On December 16, 2020, we completed the sale of a parcel of land located in Marlborough, Massachusetts for a gross sale price of approximately $14.3 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $14.2 million, resulting in a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $5.2 million.
Developments/Redevelopments
As of December 31, 2020, we had six office properties under construction/redevelopment, which we expect will total approximately 3.7 million net rentable square feet. We estimate our share of the total investment to complete these projects, in the aggregate, is approximately $2.2 billion, of which approximately $848.7 million
3
Table of Contents
remains to be invested as of December 31, 2020. Approximately 87% of the commercial space in these development projects was pre-leased as of February 22, 2021. For a detailed list of the properties under construction/redevelopment see “Liquidity and Capital Resources” within “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
On March 26, 2020, we completed and fully placed in-service 17Fifty Presidents Street located in Reston, Virginia. 17Fifty Presidents Street is a build-to-suit project with approximately 276,000 net rentable square feet of Class A office space that is 100% leased.
On June 1, 2020, we completed and fully placed in-service 20 CityPoint, a Class A office project with approximately 211,000 net rentable square feet located in Waltham, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 2020, the office portion of the property was 100% leased, including a lease with a future commencement.
On June 26, 2020, we completed the acquisition of real property at 777 Harrison Street (known as Fourth + Harrison and formerly known as 425 Fourth Street) located in San Francisco, California for a gross purchase price, including entitlements, totaling approximately $140.1 million. On July 31, 2020 and December 16, 2020, we acquired real property at 759 Harrison Street located in San Francisco, California, which is expected to be included in the Fourth + Harrison development project, for an aggregate purchase price totaling approximately $4.5 million. 759 Harrison Street and Fourth + Harrison are expected to support the development of approximately 850,000 square feet of primarily commercial office space.
On August 15, 2020, we completed and fully placed in-service The Skylyne, an approximately 331,000 square foot project comprised of 402 residential units and retail space located in Oakland, California.
On November 3, 2020, we signed an approximately 138,000 square-foot, 10-year lease with a new tenant at 200 West Street in Waltham, Massachusetts. We are currently redeveloping a portion of 200 West Street into life sciences space with expected completion in 2021. With this lease, the property is 100% leased.
Ground Lease
On July 29, 2020, we entered into a 99-year ground lease with a third-party hotel developer for land at our Reston Next property located in Reston, Virginia, which will support the development of a 270-room, approximately 241,000 square foot hotel property. The lease commenced on October 21, 2020 and, upon commencement, we performed classification testing. The ground lease is subject to termination rights with respect to the hotel developer’s ability to obtain construction financing for the property and, as of the lease commencement date, we were not reasonably certain that those termination rights would not be exercised and as such we have accounted for this as an operating lease that will expire on August 28, 2022.
Unsecured Debt
On May 5, 2020, BPLP completed a public offering of $1.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of its 3.250% unsecured senior notes due 2031. The notes were priced at 99.850% of the principal amount to yield an effective rate (including financing fees) of approximately 3.343% per annum to maturity. The notes will mature on January 30, 2031, unless earlier redeemed. The aggregate net proceeds from the offering were approximately $1.24 billion, after deducting underwriting discounts and transaction expenses.
Equity Transactions
During the year ended December 31, 2020, BXP acquired an aggregate of 856,811 common units of limited partnership interest, including 88,168 common units issued upon the conversion of LTIP Units, 2012 OPP Units, 2013 MYLTIP Units, 2014 MYLTIP Units, 2015 MYLTIP Units, 2016 MYLTIP Units and 2017 MYLTIP Units presented by the holders for redemption, in exchange for an equal number of shares of BXP common stock.
Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures
On January 28, 2020, we entered into a joint venture with a third party to own, operate and develop properties at our Gateway Commons complex located in South San Francisco, California. We contributed our 601, 611 and 651 Gateway properties and development rights with an agreed upon value aggregating approximately $350.0 million for our 50% interest in the joint venture (See Note 3). 601, 611 and 651 Gateway consist of three Class A office properties aggregating approximately 768,000 net rentable square feet. The partner contributed three properties and development rights with an agreed upon value aggregating approximately $280.8 million at closing and will contribute cash totaling approximately $69.2 million in the future for its 50% ownership interest in the joint
4
Table of Contents
venture. As a result of the partner’s deferred contribution, we had an initial approximately 55% interest in the joint venture. Future development projects will be owned 49% by us and 51% by our partner (See “Dispositions” above).
On February 20, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 55% interest acquired the land underlying the ground lease at its Platform 16 property located in San Jose, California for a purchase price totaling approximately $134.8 million. The joint venture had previously made a deposit totaling $15.0 million, which was credited against the purchase price. Platform 16 consists of a parcel of land totaling approximately 5.6 acres that is expected to support the development of approximately 1.1 million square feet of commercial office space.
On June 9, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 20% interest refinanced with a new lender the mortgage loan collateralized by its Metropolitan Square property located in Washington, DC. The outstanding balance of the loan totaled approximately $155.9 million, bore interest at a fixed rate of 5.75% per annum and was scheduled to mature on August 5, 2020. The new mortgage loan totaling $325.0 million, of which $288.0 million was advanced at closing, bears interest at a variable rate equal to (1) the greater of (x) LIBOR or (y) 0.65%, plus (2) 4.75% per annum, and matures on July 7, 2022, with two, one-year extension options, subject to certain conditions. The joint venture entered into an interest rate cap agreement with a financial institution to limit its exposure to increases in the LIBOR rate at a cap of 3.00% per annum on a notional amount of $325.0 million through July 7, 2022. The joint venture distributed excess loan proceeds from the new mortgage loan totaling approximately $112.7 million, of which our share totaled approximately $22.5 million. Metropolitan Square is a Class A office property with approximately 654,000 net rentable square feet.
On June 25, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest completed the sale of Annapolis Junction Building Eight and two land parcels located in Annapolis, Maryland for a gross sale price of $47.0 million. Net cash proceeds totaled approximately $45.8 million after the payment of transaction costs. We recognized a gain on sale of real estate totaling approximately $5.8 million, which is included in Income (Loss) from Unconsolidated Joint Ventures in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. The joint venture distributed approximately $36.8 million of available cash and the net proceeds from the sale after the pay down of the mortgage loan, of which our share totaled approximately $18.4 million. Annapolis Junction Building Eight is an approximately 126,000 net rentable square foot Class A office property, which is vacant. The two land parcels will support the development of approximately 300,000 square feet of commercial office space with one parcel currently containing surface parking for approximately 511 vehicles.
On June 25, 2020, in conjunction with the joint venture’s sale of Annapolis Junction Building Eight, the joint venture in which we have a 50% interest modified the mortgage loan collateralized by Annapolis Junction Building Seven and Building Eight with the release of Annapolis Junction Building Eight as collateral under the loan in exchange for a principal pay down of approximately $16.1 million using a portion of the net proceeds from the sale of the property. At the time of the modification, the outstanding balance of the loan totaled approximately $34.5 million, bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.35% per annum and was scheduled to mature on June 30, 2020. The modified mortgage loan totaling approximately $18.4 million is collateralized by Annapolis Junction Building Seven, continues to bear interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.35% per annum and matures on March 25, 2021. Annapolis Junction Building Seven is a Class A office property with approximately 127,000 net rentable square feet located in Annapolis, Maryland.
On July 23, 2020, we acquired a 50% interest in a joint venture entity that owns Beach Cities Media Campus, a 6.4-acre parcel of land located in El Segundo, California, for a purchase price of approximately $21.2 million. Beach Cities Media Campus is expected to support the development of approximately 275,000 square feet of Class A office space.
On July 24, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest completed and fully placed in-service Hub50House, an approximately 320,000 square foot project comprised of 440 residential units located in Boston, Massachusetts.
On September 1, 2020, we entered into an agreement with our partner in the joint venture that owns 1265 Main Street located in Waltham, Massachusetts to (1) form additional joint ventures to own and develop a mixed-use property containing approximately 1.2 million square feet to be developed in phases on an approximately 41-acre site adjacent to 1265 Main Street and (2) share the costs of certain offsite infrastructure improvements with our joint venture partner and other third-party abutting land owners. We will serve as the development manager and expect to own a 50% interest in each of the joint ventures.
5
Table of Contents
On September 30, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest extended the mortgage loan collateralized by its Market Square North property. At the time of the extension, the outstanding balance of the loan totaled approximately $114.2 million, bore interest at a fixed rate of 4.85% per annum and was scheduled to mature on October 1, 2020. The extended loan was scheduled to mature on November 1, 2020. On October 30, 2020, the joint venture refinanced the mortgage loan. The outstanding balance of the loan totaled approximately $114.2 million, bore interest at a fixed rate of 4.85% per annum and was scheduled to mature on November 1, 2020. The new mortgage loan totals $125.0 million, bears interest at a variable rate equal to (1) the greater of (x) LIBOR or (y) 0.50%, plus (2) 2.30% per annum, and matures on November 10, 2025, with one, one-year extension option, subject to certain conditions. Market Square North is a Class A office property with approximately 418,000 net rentable square feet.
On October 1, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest completed and fully placed in-service Dock 72, a Class A office project with approximately 669,000 net rentable square feet located in Brooklyn, New York that is 33% leased. During December 2020, we recognized a non-cash impairment charge totaling approximately $60.5 million, which represented the other-than temporary decline in the fair value below the carrying value of our investment in the unconsolidated joint venture that owns Dock 72. The non-cash impairment charge was the result of an increase in costs and an extension of the projected period to fully lease the property and lower projected rental rates due to the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in a current fair value that was less than the carrying value of our investment. We assessed the impairment and concluded that it was other than temporary. We determined that our valuation of the investment was categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as it utilized significant unobservable inputs in its assessment including an exit capitalization rate of 5.25%, a discount rate on our equity investment (the property is encumbered by mortgage debt) of 8.0% and an average lease commencement on currently vacant space of mid-2023. In addition, on December 14, 2020, the joint venture extended the mortgage loan collateralized by the property. At the time of the extension, the outstanding balance of the loan totaled approximately $198.6 million, bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.25% per annum and was scheduled to mature on December 18, 2020. The extended mortgage loan has a total commitment amount of $250.0 million, bears interest at an initial variable rate equal to (1) the greater of (x) LIBOR or (y) 0.25%, plus (2) 2.85% per annum and matures on December 18, 2023.
On November 13, 2020, a joint venture in which we have a 50% interest extended the mortgage loan collateralized by its Annapolis Junction Building Six property located in Annapolis, Maryland. At the time of the extension, the outstanding balance of the loan totaled approximately $12.0 million, bore interest at a variable rate equal to LIBOR plus 2.00% per annum and was scheduled to mature on November 17, 2020. The extended mortgage loan has a total commitment amount of approximately $13.2 million, bears interest at a variable rate equal to (1) the greater of (x) LIBOR or (y) 0.50%, plus (2) 2.50% per annum and matures on November 16, 2021. Annapolis Junction Building Six is a Class A office property with approximately 119,000 net rentable square feet.
Stock Option and Incentive Plan
On February 4, 2020, BXP’s Compensation Committee approved a new equity-based, multi-year, long-term incentive program (the “2020 MYLTIP”) as a performance-based component of our overall compensation program. Under the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 718 “Compensation - Stock Compensation,” the 2020 MYLTIP has an aggregate value of approximately $13.7 million, which amount will generally be amortized into earnings over the four-year plan period under the graded vesting method (See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
On February 6, 2020, the measurement period for our 2017 MYLTIP awards ended and, based on BXP’s relative TSR performance, the final awards were determined to be 83.8% of target or an aggregate of approximately $17.6 million (after giving effect to employee separations). As a result, an aggregate of 270,942 2017 MYLTIP Units that had been previously granted were automatically forfeited.
Business and Growth Strategies
Business Strategies
Our primary business objective is to maximize return on investment to provide our investors with the greatest possible total return in all points of the economic cycle. Our strategies to achieve this objective are:
•to target a few carefully selected geographic markets—Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC—and to be one of the leading, if not the leading, developers, owners and managers in
6
Table of Contents
each of those markets with a full-service office in each market providing property management, leasing, development, construction and legal expertise. We select markets and submarkets with a diverse economic base and a deep pool of prospective tenants in various industries and where tenants have demonstrated a preference for high-quality office buildings and other facilities. Additionally, our markets have historically been able to recruit new talent to them and as such created job growth that results in growth in rental rates and occupancy over time. We have explored, and may continue to explore for future investment, select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits, including specifically Seattle;
•to emphasize markets and submarkets within those markets where the difficulty of receiving the necessary approvals for development and the necessary financing constitute high barriers to the creation of new supply, and where skill, financial strength and diligence are required to successfully develop, finance and manage high-quality office and life sciences space, as well as selected retail and residential space;
•to take on complex, technically challenging development projects, leveraging the skills of our management team to successfully develop, acquire or reposition properties that other organizations may not have the capacity or resources to pursue;
•to own and develop high-quality real estate designed to meet the demands of today’s tenants who require sophisticated telecommunications and related infrastructure, support services, sustainable features and amenities, and to manage those facilities so as to become the landlord of choice for both existing and prospective clients;
•to opportunistically acquire assets that increase our market share in the markets in which we have chosen to concentrate, as well as potential new markets, which exhibit an opportunity to improve returns through repositioning (through a combination of capital improvements and shift in marketing strategy), changes in management focus and leasing;
•to explore joint venture opportunities with (1) existing property owners located in desirable locations, who seek to benefit from the depth of development and management expertise we are able to provide and our access to capital and (2) strategic institutional partners, leveraging our skills as developers, owners and managers of Class A office space and mixed-use complexes;
•to pursue on a selective basis the sale of properties or interests therein, including core properties, to either (1) take advantage of the demand for our premier properties and realize the value we have created or (2) pare from our portfolio properties that we believe have slower future growth potential;
•to seek third-party development contracts to enable us to retain and utilize our existing development and construction management staff, especially when our internal development is less active or when new development is less-warranted due to market conditions; and
•to enhance our capital structure through our access to a variety of sources of capital and proactively manage our debt expirations. In the current economic climate with relatively low interest rates we have and will continue to attempt to lower the cost of our debt capital and seek opportunities to lock in such low rates through early debt repayment, refinancings and interest rate hedges.
Growth Strategies
External Growth Strategies
We believe that our development experience, our organizational depth and our balance sheet position us to continue to selectively develop a range of property types, including high-rise urban developments, mixed-use developments (including office, residential and retail), low-rise suburban office properties and life sciences space, within budget and on schedule. We believe we are also well-positioned to achieve external growth through acquisitions. Other factors that contribute to our competitive position include:
•our control of sites (including sites under contract or option to acquire) in our markets that could support approximately 16.7 million additional square feet of new office, life sciences, retail and residential development;
•our reputation gained through 51 years of successful operations and the stability and strength of our existing portfolio of properties;
7
Table of Contents
•our relationships with leading national corporations, universities and public institutions, including government agencies, seeking new facilities and development services;
•our relationships with nationally recognized financial institutions that provide capital to the real estate industry;
•our track record and reputation for executing acquisitions efficiently provide comfort to domestic and foreign institutions, private investors and corporations who seek to sell commercial real estate in our market areas;
•our ability to act quickly on due diligence and financing;
•our relationships with institutional buyers and sellers of high-quality real estate assets;
•our ability to procure entitlements from multiple municipalities to develop sites and attract land owners to sell or partner with us; and
•our relationship with domestic and foreign investors who seek to partner with companies like ours.
Opportunities to execute our external growth strategy fall into three categories:
•Development in selected submarkets. We believe the selected development of well-positioned office, life sciences and residential buildings and mixed-use complexes may be justified in our markets. We believe in acquiring land after taking into consideration timing factors relating to economic cycles and in response to market conditions that allow for its development at the appropriate time. While we purposely concentrate in markets with high barriers-to-entry, we have demonstrated throughout our 51-year history, an ability to make carefully timed land acquisitions in submarkets where we can become one of the market leaders in establishing rent and other business terms. We believe that there are opportunities at key locations in our existing and other markets for a well-capitalized developer to acquire land with development potential.
In the past, we have been particularly successful at acquiring sites or options to purchase sites that need governmental approvals for development. Because of our development expertise, knowledge of the governmental approval process and reputation for quality development with local government regulatory bodies, we generally have been able to secure the permits necessary to allow development and to profit from the resulting increase in land value. We seek complex projects where we can add value through the efforts of our experienced and skilled management team leading to attractive returns on investment.
Our strong regional relationships and recognized development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn relatively significant returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.
•Acquisition of assets and portfolios of assets from institutions or individuals. We believe that due to our size, management strength and reputation, we are well positioned to acquire portfolios of assets or individual properties from institutions or individuals if valuations meet our criteria. In addition, we believe that our market knowledge and our liquidity and access to capital may provide us with a competitive advantage when pursuing acquisitions. Opportunities to acquire properties may also come through the purchase of first mortgage or mezzanine debt. We are also able to appeal to sellers wishing to contribute on a tax-deferred basis their ownership of property for equity in a diversified real estate operating company that offers liquidity through access to the public equity markets in addition to a quarterly distribution. Our ability to offer common and preferred units of limited partnership in BPLP to sellers who would otherwise recognize a taxable gain upon a sale of assets for cash or BXP’s common stock may facilitate this type of transaction on a tax-efficient basis. Recent Treasury regulations may limit certain of the tax benefits previously available to sellers in these transactions.
•Acquisition of underperforming assets and portfolios of assets. We believe that because of our in-depth market knowledge and development experience in each of our markets, our national reputation with brokers, financial institutions, owners of real estate and others involved in the real estate market and our access to competitively-priced capital, we are well-positioned to identify and acquire existing, underperforming properties for competitive prices and to add significant additional value to such properties
8
Table of Contents
through our effective marketing strategies, repositioning/redevelopment expertise and a responsive property management program.
Internal Growth Strategies
We believe that opportunities will exist to increase cash flow from our existing properties through an increase in occupancy and rental rates because they are of high quality and in desirable locations. Additionally, our markets have diversified economies that have historically experienced job growth and increased use of office space, resulting in growth in rental rates and occupancy over time. Our strategy for maximizing the benefits from these opportunities is three-fold: (1) to provide high-quality property management services using our employees in order to encourage tenants to renew, expand and relocate in our properties, (2) to achieve speed and transaction cost efficiency in replacing departing tenants through the use of in-house services for marketing, lease negotiation and construction of tenant and capital improvements and (3) to work with new or existing tenants with space expansion or contraction needs, leveraging our expertise and clustering of assets to maximize the cash flow from our assets. We expect to continue our internal growth as a result of our ability to:
•Cultivate existing submarkets and long-term relationships with credit tenants. In choosing locations for our properties, we have paid particular attention to transportation and commuting patterns, physical environment, adjacency to established business centers and amenities, proximity to sources of business growth and other local factors.
The weighted-average lease term of our in-place leases, including leases signed by our unconsolidated joint ventures, was approximately 7.4 years at December 31, 2020, and we continue to cultivate long-term leasing relationships with a diverse base of high-quality, financially stable tenants. Based on leases in place at December 31, 2020, leases with respect to approximately 8.1% of the total square feet in our portfolio, including unconsolidated joint ventures, will expire in calendar year 2021. 
•Directly manage our office properties to maximize the potential for tenant retention. We provide property management services ourselves, rather than contracting for this service, to maintain awareness of and responsiveness to tenant needs. We and our properties also benefit from cost efficiencies produced by an experienced work force attentive to preventive maintenance and energy management and from our continuing programs to assure that our property management personnel at all levels remain aware of their important role in tenant relations. In addition, we reinvest in our properties by adding new services and amenities that are desirable to our tenants.
•Replace tenants quickly at best available market terms and lowest possible transaction costs. We believe that we are well-positioned to attract new tenants and achieve relatively high rental and occupancy rates as a result of our well-located, well-designed and well-maintained properties, our reputation for high-quality building services and responsiveness to tenants, and our ability to offer expansion and relocation alternatives within our submarkets.
•Extend terms of existing leases to existing tenants prior to expiration. We have also successfully structured early tenant renewals, which have reduced the cost associated with lease downtime while securing the tenancy of our highest quality credit-worthy tenants on a long-term basis and enhancing relationships.
•Re-development of existing assets. We believe the select re-development of assets within our portfolio, where through the ability to increase the building size and/or to increase cash flow and generate appropriate returns on incremental investment after consideration of the asset’s current and future cash flows, may be desirable. This generally occurs in situations in which we are able to increase the building’s size, improve building systems, including conversion to higher yielding life sciences uses, and sustainability features, and/or add tenant amenities, thereby increasing tenant demand, generating acceptable returns on incremental investment and enhancing the long-term value of the property and the company. In the past, we have been particularly successful at gaining local government approval for increased density at several of our assets, providing the opportunity to enhance value at a particular location. Our strong regional relationships and recognized re-development expertise have enabled us to capitalize on unique build-to-suit opportunities. We intend to seek and expect to continue to be presented with such opportunities in the near term allowing us to earn attractive returns on these development opportunities through multiple business cycles.
9
Table of Contents
Sustainability
Our Sustainability Strategy
We actively work to promote our growth and operations in a sustainable and responsible manner across our five regions. The BXP sustainability strategy is to conduct our business, the development and operation of new and existing buildings, in a manner that contributes to positive economic, social and environmental outcomes for our customers, shareholders, employees and the communities we serve. Our investment philosophy is shaped by our core strategy of long-term ownership and our commitment to our communities and the centers of commerce and civic life that make them thrive. We are focused on developing and maintaining healthy, high-performance buildings, while simultaneously mitigating operational costs and the potential external impacts of energy, water, waste, greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. To that end, we have publicly adopted long-term energy, emissions, water and waste goals that establish aggressive reduction targets and have been aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. BXP is a corporate member of the U.S. Green Building Council® (“USGBC”) and has a long history of owning, developing and operating properties that are certified under USGBC’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design™ (LEED®) rating system. In 2018, we announced a partnership with a leading healthy building certification system, Fitwel, to support healthy building design and operational practices across our portfolio, becoming a Fitwel Champion. We completed our Fitwel Champion commitments in 2019, adding 12.4 million square feet of Fitwel certified buildings.
In addition, we have been an active participant in the green bond market since 2018, which provides access to sustainability-focused investors interested in the positive environmental externalities of our business activities. BXP and its employees also make a social impact through charitable giving, volunteerism, public realm investments and diversity and inclusion. Through these efforts, we demonstrate that operating and developing commercial real estate can be conducted with a conscious regard for the environment and wider society while mutually benefiting our stakeholders.
Industry Leadership in Sustainability
We continue to be recognized as an industry leader in sustainability. In 2020, BXP ranked among the top real estate companies in the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) assessment, earning a fifth consecutive 5 Star rating, the highest rating and recognition for being an industry leader. It was the ninth consecutive year that BXP earned the GRESB “Green Star” designation, achieving the highest scores in several categories, including: Data Monitoring & Review, Targets, Policies, Reporting and Leadership. BXP was also named one of America’s Most Responsible Companies by Newsweek magazine in 2020. BXP ranked 56th overall out of 400 companies included. It was the second highest ranking of all property companies and the highest ranking of any office REIT. In 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018 and 2019, BXP was selected by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit”) as a Leader in the Light Award winner. Nareit's annual Leader in the Light Awards honor Nareit member companies that have demonstrated superior and sustained sustainability practices.
BXP has adopted sustainable development and operational practices across its portfolio. BXP became a proud signatory of the We Are Still In pledge after the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, and has aligned emissions reduction targets with climate science. The SBTi Target Validation Team has classified BXP’s emissions reduction target ambition and has determined that it is in line with a 1.5°C trajectory, currently the most ambitious designation available. As of the end of 2020, BXP is one of six North American Real Estate companies with this distinction and the only North American office company in that group. We have LEED certified 28.8 million square feet of our portfolio, of which 96% is certified at the highest Gold and Platinum levels. BXP’s master lease form includes green lease clauses that support a more sustainable tenant-landlord relationship. In 2020, BXP was named a Green Lease Leader at the highest Gold level by the Institute for Market Transformation and the U.S. Department of Energy for exhibiting a strong commitment to high performance and sustainability in buildings and best practices in leasing. Through active asset management and tenant engagement, BXP has been a leader in energy efficiency and healthy building practices. In 2020 BXP was recognized by the Environmental Performance Agency (“EPA”) as an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for Sustained Excellence. This award is reserved for ENERGY STAR partners demonstrating outstanding leadership, year over year. Partners must perform at a superior level of energy management, demonstrate best practices across the organization and prove organization-wide energy savings. BXP was named a 2020 Best in Building Health award winner. We completed the first Fitwel Design Certified project in the world in 2019 and executed more Fitwel certifications by count and building area than any other company in 2019. BXP has 11 Fitwel Ambassadors among our Sustainability, Development and Property Management teams.
10
Table of Contents
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”)
The Real Estate Sustainability Accounting Standard issued by SASB in 2018 proposes sustainability accounting metrics designed for disclosure in mandatory filings, such as the Annual Report on Form 10-K, and serves as the framework against which we have aligned our disclosures for sustainability information. The recommended energy and water management activity metrics for the real estate industry include energy consumption data coverage as a percentage of floor area (“Energy Intensity”); percentage of eligible portfolio that is certified ENERGY STAR® (“ENERGY STAR certified”); total energy consumed by portfolio area (“Total Energy Consumption”); water withdrawal as a percentage of total floor area (“Water Intensity”); and total water withdrawn by portfolio area (“Total Water Consumption”). Energy and water data is collected from utility bills and submeters and is assured by a third-party, including all SASB 2019 energy and water metrics, which have been assured. During the 2019 calendar year, 45 buildings representing 42% of our eligible portfolio were ENERGY STAR certified. A licensed professional has verified all ENERGY STAR applications.
The charts below detail our Energy Intensity, Total Energy Consumption, Water Intensity and Total Water Consumption for 2015 through 2019 for which data on occupied and actively-managed properties was available.1,2,3,4,5
bxp-20201231_g1.jpg
_______________
(1)Full 2020 calendar year energy and water data will not be available to be assured by a third party until March 31, 2021. 2019 is the most recent year for which complete energy and water data is available and assured by a third party.
(2)The charts reflect the performance of our occupied and actively-managed office building portfolio in Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC. Occupied office buildings are buildings with no more than 50% vacancy. Actively-managed buildings are buildings where we have operational control of building system performance and investment decisions. At the end of the 2019 calendar year, this included 102 buildings totaling 40.9 million gross square feet.
(3)Floor area is considered to have complete energy consumption data coverage when energy consumption data (i.e., energy types and amounts consumed) is obtained by us for all types of energy consumed in the relevant floor area during the calendar year, regardless of when such data was obtained.
(4)The scope of energy includes energy purchased from sources external to us and our tenants or produced by us or our tenants and energy from all sources, including fuel, gas, electricity and steam. Energy use intensity (kBtu/SF) has been weather normalized.
(5)Water sources include surface water (including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes and oceans), groundwater, rainwater collected directly and stored by the registrant, wastewater obtained from other entities, municipal water supplies or supply from other water utilities.
Climate Resilience
As a long-term owner and active manager of real estate assets in operation and under development, we take a long-term view of potential risks, including climate change. We are in the process of evaluating physical and transition risks associated with climate change. We view this as an opportunity to protect asset value by proactively assessing climate risk, implementing measures, planning and decision-making processes to protect our investments by improving resilience. We are preparing for long-term climate risk by considering climate change scenarios and will continue to assess climate change vulnerabilities resulting from potential future climate scenarios and sea level rise. In 2020, we began using Four Twenty Seven climate risk scoring to evaluate the forward-looking physical
11
Table of Contents
climate risk exposure of our entire portfolio. Event-driven (acute) and longer-term (chronic) physical risks that may result from climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. Management’s role in assessing and managing these climate-related risks and initiatives is spread across multiple teams across our organization, including our executive leadership and our Sustainability, Risk Management, Development, Construction and Property Management departments. Climate resilience measures include training and implementation of emergency response plans and the engagement of our executives and BXP’s Board of Directors on climate change and other environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) aspects.
Reporting
A notable part of our commitment to sustainable development and operations is our commitment to transparent reporting of ESG performance indicators, as we recognize the importance of this information to investors, lenders and others in understanding how BXP assesses sustainability information and evaluates risks and opportunities. We publish an annual sustainability report that is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative reporting framework, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the SASB framework and includes our strategy, key performance indicators, annual like-for-like comparisons, achievements and historical sustainability reports, which is available on our website at http://www.bxp.com under the heading “Sustainability.” In addition, we continue to work to further align our reporting with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) to disclose climate-related financial risks and opportunities.
In 2018 and 2019, BPLP issued an aggregate of $1.85 billion of green bonds. The terms of the green bonds have use of proceeds restrictions limiting its allocation to “eligible green projects.” We published our first Green Bond Allocation Report in June 2019, disclosing the full allocation of approximately $988 million in net proceeds from BPLP’s inaugural green bond offering to the eligible green project at our Salesforce Tower property in San Francisco, California. We recently published our September 30, 2020 Green Bond Allocation Report disclosing the full allocation of approximately $841 million in net proceeds from BPLP’s green bond offering in June 2019. The Green Bond Allocation Reports are available on our website at http://www.bxp.com under the heading “Sustainability.”
Except for the documents specifically incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, information contained on our website or that can be accessed through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Human Capital Management
Our company culture supports and nurtures our employees and provides a unique competitive advantage. We believe our employees are a significant distinguishing factor that sets BXP apart. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 750 employees. Our operational and financial performance depends on their talents, energy, experience and well-being. Our ability to attract and retain talented people depends on a number of factors, including work environment, career development and professional training, compensation and benefits, and the health, safety and wellness of our employees. We have an established reputation for excellence and integrity and these core values are inherent in our culture and play a critical role in achieving our goals and overall success.
Diversity & Inclusion
We strive to create a diverse and inclusive workplace. It has been, and will continue to be, our policy to recruit, hire, assign, promote and train in all job titles without regard to race, national origin, religion, age, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, or protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by local, state, or federal laws, rules, or regulations. By implementing this policy, we aim to ensure that all employees have the opportunity to make their maximum contribution to us and to their own career goals.
In 2020, we took concrete steps to formalize and elevate our focus on diversity and equity within our company and in the communities we serve. We launched the Diversity & Inclusion Committee in early 2020 with the mission of promoting diversity, inclusion, equality and transparency as part of our culture, business activities and decision-making practices, while also providing an additional mechanism through which we can make a positive impact in the communities in which we operate. Areas of priority include recruiting, retention and professional development, review and assessment of our policies with a focus on business partner diversity and other relationships, and community outreach. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer is a signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity campaign, which is the largest CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion in the workplace.
12
Table of Contents
Diversity & Inclusion at BXP(1)
								
TOTAL WORKFORCE(2)
	
MANAGER & ABOVE(2)
	BOARD OF DIRECTORS
bxp-20201231_g2.jpgbxp-20201231_g3.jpgbxp-20201231_g4.jpg
bxp-20201231_g5.jpgbxp-20201231_g6.jpg bxp-20201231_g7.jpg
 _______________
(1) As of December 31, 2020. We determine race and gender based on our employees' self-identification. Ethnic minorities are defined as those included in the EEO Ethnicity and Race Categories: Asian, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native American or Pacific Islander, or multiracial background.
(2) Represents percentages for all of our employees excluding union employees for which the unions control all aspects of the hiring process.
Culture & Employee Engagement
We believe that the success of our business is tied to the quality of our workforce, and we strive to maintain a corporate environment without losing the entrepreneurial spirit with which we were founded more than 50 years ago. By providing a quality workplace and comprehensive benefit programs, we recognize the commitment of our employees to bring their talent, energy and experience to us. Our continued success is attributable to our employees’ expertise and dedication.
We conduct employee engagement surveys to monitor our employees’ satisfaction in all aspects of their employment, including leadership, communication, development and benefits offerings. Employee responsiveness to the engagements surveys have been consistently high and the results help inform us on matters that our employees view as key contributors to a positive work experience. Based on the employee engagement survey conducted in 2020, with 93% responsiveness, the overall company-wide favorability result was a “very favorable” rating with ratings exceeding 80% favorability in all categories.
The success of our efforts in the workplace is demonstrated by the satisfaction and long tenure of our employees, 32% of whom have worked at BXP for ten or more years. The average tenure of our employees is approximately 9.8 years and that of our executive leadership is 18.2 years. In 2020, our total workforce turnover rate was 10.2%, which is below the total turnover rate of 18.0% reported in the Nareit 2020 Compensation & Benefits Survey (based on 2019 data).
Career Development & Training
We invest significant resources in our employees’ personal and professional growth and development and provide a wide range of tools and development opportunities that build and strengthen employees’ leadership and professional skills. These development opportunities include in-person and virtual training sessions, in-house learning opportunities, various management trainings, departmental conferences, executive townhalls and external programs.
13
Table of Contents
One particularly relevant training that was offered to all employees in 2020 was Unconscious/Implicit Bias training. We offered this training as part of our commitment to recognize that we all have a role to play to mitigate unconscious bias in the work environment and support an inclusive workforce. We strive for a truly inclusive environment where all employees feel valued and provided the opportunity to succeed. This training, coupled with other trainings and initiatives, aims to enhance awareness, knowledge, collaboration and teamwork and overall enrich our culture.
Compensation & Benefits
Our employee benefit programs are designed to meet the needs of our diverse workforce, support our employees and their families by offering comprehensive programs that provide flexibility and choice in coverage, make available valuable resources to protect and enhance financial security and help balance work and personal life. Some of the benefits that we offer our employees include:
•health, telehealth, dental and vision insurance,
•a 401(k) plan with a generous matching contribution,
•an employee stock purchase plan,
•health care and dependent care reimbursement accounts,
•income protection through our sick pay, salary continuation and long-term disability policies,
•a scholarship program for the children of non-officer employees,
•a commuter subsidy to support the use of public transportation,
•tuition reimbursement, and
•paid vacation, holiday, personal and volunteer days to balance work and personal life.
Health, Safety & Wellness
As one of the largest publicly-traded office REITs (based on total market capitalization as of December 31, 2020) in the United States, we are keenly aware of the influence of buildings on human health and its importance to our tenants and employees. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, our focus on healthy buildings has become even more important. The health, safety and security of our employees, tenants, contractors and others is our highest priority. In early 2020, we convened a Health Security Task Force of subject matter experts from both inside and outside BXP to develop the BXP Health Security Plan, which we published in May of 2020. The BXP Health Security Plan is a comprehensive set of building operational measures, including cleaning and disinfection, air and water quality, physical distancing, screening and personal protective equipment and health security communication. We conduct health and security quality audits to ensure implementation and effectiveness of the plan at our properties.
We believe the success of our employees is dependent upon their overall well-being, including their physical health, mental health, work-life balance and financial well-being. In addition to the benefits outlined above, we also offer our employees an Employee Wellness Program and an Employee Assistance Program. The Employee Wellness Program was established in 2016 to encourage employees to improve their health and well-being by offering activities facilitated through an engaging and personalized approach. Program participants receive a reduction in their health insurance deduction cost. The Employee Assistance Program includes services for childcare, eldercare, personal relationship information, financial planning assistance, stress management, mental illness and general wellness and self-help.
Policies with Respect to Certain Activities
The discussion below sets forth certain additional information regarding our investment, financing and other policies. These policies have been determined by BXP’s Board of Directors and, in general, may be amended or revised from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Investment Policies
Investments in Real Estate or Interests in Real Estate
Our investment objectives are to provide quarterly cash dividends/distributions to our securityholders and to achieve long-term capital appreciation through increases in our value. We have not established a specific policy regarding the relative priority of these investment objectives.
14
Table of Contents
We expect to continue to pursue our investment objectives primarily through the ownership of our current properties, development projects and other acquired properties. We currently intend to continue to invest primarily in developments of properties and acquisitions of existing improved properties or properties in need of redevelopment, and acquisitions of land that we believe have development potential, primarily in our existing markets of Boston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco and Washington, DC and the target market of Seattle. We have explored and may continue to explore for future investment select domestic and international markets that exhibit these same traits. Future investment or development activities will not be limited to a specified percentage of our assets. We intend to engage in such future investment or development activities in a manner that is consistent with the maintenance of BXP’s status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. In addition, we may purchase or lease income-producing commercial and other types of properties for long-term investment, expand and improve the real estate presently owned or other properties purchased, or sell such real estate properties, in whole or in part, when circumstances warrant. We do not have a policy that restricts the amount or percentage of assets that will be invested in any specific property, however, our investments may be restricted by our debt covenants.
We may also continue to participate with third parties in property ownership, through joint ventures or other types of co-ownership. These investments may permit us to own interests in larger assets without unduly restricting diversification and, therefore, add flexibility in structuring our portfolio.
Equity investments may be subject to existing mortgage financing and other indebtedness or such financing or indebtedness as may be incurred in connection with acquiring or refinancing these investments. Debt service on such financing or indebtedness will have a priority over any distributions with respect to BXP’s common stock. Investments are also subject to our policy not to be treated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”). 
Investments in Real Estate Mortgages
While our current portfolio consists primarily of, and our business objectives emphasize, equity investments in commercial real estate, we may, at the discretion of the Board of Directors of BXP, invest in mortgages and other types of real estate interests consistent with BXP’s qualification as a REIT. Investments in real estate mortgages run the risk that one or more borrowers may default under such mortgages and that the collateral securing such mortgages may not be sufficient to enable us to recoup our full investment. We may invest in participating, convertible or traditional mortgages if we conclude that we may benefit from the cash flow, or any appreciation in value of the property or as an entrance to the fee ownership. As of December 31, 2020, we had three note receivables outstanding, which aggregated approximately $96.3 million.
Securities of or Interests in Entities Primarily Engaged in Real Estate Activities
Subject to the percentage of ownership limitations and gross income and asset tests necessary for BXP’s REIT qualification, we also may invest in securities of other REITs, other entities engaged in real estate activities or securities of other issuers, including for the purpose of exercising control over such entities.
Dispositions
We decide to dispose or partially dispose of properties based upon the periodic review of our portfolio and the determination by the Board of Directors of BXP that doing so is in our best interests. Any decision to dispose of a property will be authorized by the Board of Directors of BXP or a committee thereof. Some holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP could incur adverse tax consequences upon the sale of certain of our properties that differ from the tax consequences to BXP. Consequently, holders of limited partnership interests in BPLP may have different objectives regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of any such sale. Such different tax treatment derives in most cases from the fact that we acquired these properties in exchange for partnership interests in contribution transactions structured to allow the prior owners to defer taxable gain. Generally, this deferral continues so long as we do not dispose of the properties in a taxable transaction. Unless a sale by us of these properties is structured as a like-kind exchange under Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), or in a manner that otherwise allows deferral to continue, recognition of the deferred tax gain allocable to these prior owners is generally triggered by a sale. As of December 31, 2020, we had no properties that were subject to a tax protection agreement.
15
Table of Contents
Financing Policies 
The agreement of limited partnership of BPLP and BXP’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. Further, we do not have a policy limiting the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, nor have we established any limit on the number or amount of mortgages that may be placed on any single property or on our portfolio as a whole. However, our mortgages, credit facilities, joint venture agreements and unsecured debt securities contain customary restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness. In addition, we evaluate the impact of incremental leverage on our debt metrics and the credit ratings of BPLP’s publicly traded debt. A reduction in BPLP’s credit ratings could result in us borrowing money at higher interest rates.
The Board of Directors of BXP will consider a number of factors when evaluating our level of indebtedness and when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, including the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing, the entering into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts and the ability of particular properties and us as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. 
Policies with Respect to Other Activities
As the sole general partner of BPLP, BXP has the authority to issue additional common and preferred units of limited partnership interest of BPLP. BXP has issued, and may in the future issue, common or preferred units of limited partnership interest to persons who contribute their direct or indirect interests in properties to us in exchange for such common or preferred units. We have not engaged in trading, underwriting or agency distribution or sale of securities of issuers other than BXP and BPLP does not intend to do so. At all times, we intend to make investments in such a manner as to enable BXP to maintain its qualification as a REIT, unless, due to changes in circumstances or to the Code, the Board of Directors of BXP determines that it is no longer in the best interest of BXP to qualify as a REIT. We may make loans to third parties, including, without limitation, to joint ventures in which we participate or in connection with the disposition of a property. We intend to make investments in such a way that we will not be treated as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Our policies with respect to these and other activities may be reviewed and modified or amended from time to time by the Board of Directors of BXP. 
Governmental Regulations
General
Compliance with various governmental regulations has an impact on our business, including our capital expenditures, earnings and competitive position, which can be material. We incur costs to monitor and take actions to comply with governmental regulations that are applicable to our business, which include, among others, (1) federal securities laws and regulations, (2) applicable stock exchange requirements, and (3) federal, state and local laws and regulations related to (a) our status as a REIT and other tax laws and regulations, and (b) real property, the improvements thereon and the operation thereof, such as laws and regulations relating to the environment, health and safety, zoning, usage, building, fire and life safety codes, (4) the requirements of the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury and (5) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. In addition to the discussion below, see “Item 1A – Risk Factors” for a discussion of these governmental regulations and other material risks to us, including, to the extent material, to our competitive position, and see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” together with our consolidated financial statements, including the related notes included therein, for a discussion of material information relevant to an assessment of our financial condition and results of operations, including, to the extent material, the effects that compliance with governmental regulations may have upon our capital expenditures and earnings.
Environmental Matters
It is our policy to retain independent environmental consultants to conduct or update Phase I environmental assessments (which generally do not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling) and asbestos surveys in connection with our acquisition of properties. These pre-purchase environmental assessments have not revealed environmental conditions that we believe will have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and we are not otherwise aware of environmental conditions with respect to our properties that we believe would have such a material adverse effect. However, from time to time environmental conditions at our properties have required and may in the future require environmental testing and/or regulatory filings, as well as remedial action. 
16
Table of Contents
For example, in February 1999, we (through a joint venture) acquired from Exxon Corporation a property in Massachusetts that was formerly used as a petroleum bulk storage and distribution facility and was known by the state regulatory authority to contain soil and groundwater contamination. We developed an office park on the property. We engaged a specially licensed environmental consultant to oversee the management of contaminated soil and groundwater that was disturbed in the course of construction. Under the property acquisition agreement, Exxon agreed to (1) bear the liability arising from releases or discharges of oil and hazardous substances which occurred at the site prior to our ownership, (2) continue monitoring and/or remediating such releases and discharges as necessary and appropriate to comply with applicable requirements, and (3) indemnify us for certain losses arising from preexisting site conditions. Any indemnity claim may be subject to various defenses and contractual limitations, including time limits, and there can be no assurance that the amounts paid under the indemnity, if any, would be sufficient to cover the liabilities arising from any such releases and discharges. 
Environmental investigations at some of our properties and certain properties owned by our affiliates have identified groundwater contamination migrating from off-site source properties. In each case we engaged a licensed environmental consultant to perform the necessary investigations and assessments, and to prepare any required submittals to the regulatory authorities. In each case the environmental consultant concluded that the properties qualify under the regulatory program or the regulatory practice for a status which eliminates certain deadlines for conducting response actions at a site. We also believe that these properties qualify for liability relief under certain statutory provisions or regulatory practices regarding upgradient releases. Although we believe that the current or former owners of the upgradient source properties may bear responsibility for some or all of the costs of addressing the identified groundwater contamination, we will take such further response actions (if any) that we deem necessary or advisable. Other than periodic testing at some of these properties, no such additional response actions are anticipated at this time. 
Some of our properties and certain properties owned by our affiliates are located in urban, industrial and other previously developed areas where fill or current or historical use of the areas have caused site contamination. Accordingly, it is sometimes necessary to institute special soil and/or groundwater handling procedures and/or include particular building design features in connection with development, construction and other property operations in order to achieve regulatory closure and/or ensure that contaminated materials are addressed in an appropriate manner. In these situations, it is our practice to investigate the nature and extent of detected contamination, including potential issues associated with vapor intrusion concerns and/or potential contaminant migration to or from the subject property in ground water, assess potential liability risks and estimate the costs of required response actions and special handling procedures. We then use this information as part of our decision-making process with respect to the acquisition, deal structure and/or development of the property. For example, we own a parcel in Massachusetts which was formerly used as a quarry/asphalt batching facility. Pre-purchase testing indicated that the site contained relatively low levels of certain contaminants. We have developed an office park on this property. Prior to and during redevelopment activities, we engaged a specially licensed environmental consultant to monitor environmental conditions at the site and prepare necessary regulatory submittals based on the results of an environmental risk characterization. A submittal has been made to the regulatory authorities in order to achieve regulatory closure at this site. The submittal included an environmental deed restriction that mandates compliance with certain protective measures in a portion of the site where low levels of residual soil contamination have been left in place in accordance with applicable laws. 
We expect that resolution of the environmental matters described above will not have a material impact on our business, assets, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, we cannot assure you that we have identified all environmental liabilities at our properties, that all necessary remediation actions have been or will be undertaken at our properties, that we will be indemnified, in full or at all, or that we will have insurance coverage in the event that such environmental liabilities arise. 
Corporate Governance
BXP is currently governed by an eleven-member Board of Directors. The current members of the Board of Directors of BXP are Kelly A. Ayotte, Bruce W. Duncan, Karen E. Dykstra, Carol B. Einiger, Diane J. Hoskins, Joel I. Klein, Douglas T. Linde, Matthew J. Lustig, Owen D. Thomas, David A. Twardock and William H. Walton III. All directors of BXP stand for election for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders.
17
Table of Contents
Joel I. Klein currently serves as the Chairman of BXP’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors of BXP also has Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. The membership of each of these committees is described below.
																																						
Independent Director	  	Audit	 	Compensation	 	Nominating and
Corporate Governance
Kelly A. Ayotte							X	(1)			X	
Bruce W. Duncan			X								X	
Karen E. Dykstra			X									
Carol B. Einiger	  				 		X		 	 		
Diane J. Hoskins											X	
Joel I. Klein (2)	  				 	 		  	 			
Matthew J. Lustig											X	(1)
David A. Twardock	  		X	(1)	 	 	X		 	 		  
William H. Walton III							X					
 
X=Committee member, (1)=Committee Chair, (2)=Chairman of BXP’s Board of Directors
BXP has the following corporate governance documents and procedures in place:
•The Board of Directors has adopted charters for each of its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. A copy of each of these charters is available on our website at http://www.bxp.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Committee Charters.”
•The Board of Directors has adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bxp.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Documents” with the name “Governance Guidelines.”
•The Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which governs business decisions made and actions taken by BXP’s directors, officers and employees. A copy of this code is available on our website at http://www.bxp.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Documents” with the name “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.” BXP intends to disclose on this website any amendment to, or waiver of, any provisions of this Code applicable to the directors and executive officers of BXP that would otherwise be required to be disclosed under the rules of the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange.
•The Board of Directors has established an ethics reporting system that employees may use to anonymously report possible violations of the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, including concerns regarding questionable accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters, by telephone or over the internet.
•The Board of Directors has adopted a Policy on our Political Spending, a copy of which is available on our website at http://www.bxp.com under the heading “Corporate Governance” and subheading “Governance Documents” with the name “Policy on Political Spending.”
Competition
We compete in the leasing of office, life sciences, retail and residential space with a considerable number of other real estate companies, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us. In addition, our hotel property competes for guests with other hotels, some of which may have greater marketing and financial resources than are available to us and to the manager of our one hotel, Marriott International, Inc. 
Principal factors of competition in our primary business of owning, acquiring and developing office properties are the quality of properties, leasing terms (including rent and other charges and allowances for tenant improvements), attractiveness and convenience of location, the quality and breadth of tenant services and amenities provided, and reputation as an owner and operator of quality office properties in the relevant market. Additionally, our ability to compete depends upon, among other factors, trends in the national and local economies, investment alternatives, financial condition and operating results of current and prospective tenants, availability and
18
Table of Contents
cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, taxes, utilities, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends. 
In addition, we currently have six residential properties and may in the future decide to acquire or develop additional residential properties. As an owner, we will also face competition for prospective residents from other operators/owners whose properties may be perceived to offer a better location or better amenities or whose rent may be perceived as a better value given the quality, location and amenities that the resident seeks. We will also compete against condominiums and single-family homes that are for sale or rent. Because the scale of our residential portfolio is relatively small, we expect to continue to retain third parties to manage our residential properties.
Our Hotel Property
We operate our hotel property through a taxable REIT subsidiary. The taxable REIT subsidiary, a wholly-owned subsidiary of BPLP, is the lessee pursuant to a lease for the hotel property. As lessor, BPLP is entitled to a percentage of gross receipts from the hotel property. The hotel lease is intended to provide the economic benefits of ownership of the underlying real estate to flow to us as rental income, while our taxable REIT subsidiary earns the profit from operating the property as a hotel. Marriott International, Inc. continues to manage the hotel property under the Marriott name and under terms of the existing management agreements. Marriott has been engaged under a separate long-term incentive management agreement to operate and manage the hotel on behalf of the taxable REIT subsidiary. 
