Company Overview

CBRE Group, Inc. is a Delaware corporation. References to “CBRE,” “the company,” “we,” “us” and “our” refer to CBRE Group, Inc. and include all of its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated or the context requires otherwise.

We are the world’s largest commercial real estate services and investment firm, based on 2020 revenue, with leading global market positions in our leasing, property sales, occupier outsourcing and valuation businesses. As of December 31, 2020, the company has more than 100,000 employees (excluding affiliates) serving clients in more than 100 countries.

Our business is focused on providing services to real estate investors and occupiers. For investors, we provide capital markets (property sales, mortgage origination, sales and servicing), property leasing, investment management, property management, valuation and development services, among others. For occupiers, we provide facilities management, project management, transaction (both property sales and leasing) and consulting services, among others. We provide services under the following brand names: “CBRE” (real estate advisory and outsourcing services); “CBRE Global Investors” (investment management); “Trammell Crow Company” (U.S. development); “Telford Homes” (U.K. development) and “Hana” (flexible-space solutions). In 2020, CBRE sponsored a special purpose acquisition company (SPAC), CBRE Acquisition Holdings, Inc. (CBRE Acquisition Holdings), which has the sole purpose of acquiring a privately held company with significant growth potential and to create value by supporting the company in the public markets. The company that it acquires is expected to operate in an industry that will benefit from the experience, expertise and operating skills of CBRE. CBRE Acquisition Holdings trades on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbols “CBAH,” “CBAH.U,” and “CBAH.W.”

Our revenue mix has shifted toward more stable revenue sources, particularly occupier outsourcing, and our dependence on highly cyclical property sales and lease transaction revenue has declined markedly over the past decade. We believe we are well-positioned to capture a substantial and growing share of market opportunities at a time when investors and occupiers increasingly prefer to purchase integrated, account-based services on a national and global basis. We generate revenue from both management fees (large multi-year portfolio and per-project contracts) and commissions on transactions.

In 2020, we generated revenue from a highly diversified base of clients, including more than 90 of the Fortune 100 companies. We have been an S&P 500 company since 2006 and in 2020 we were ranked #128 on the Fortune 500. We have been voted the most recognized commercial real estate brand in the Lipsey Company survey for 20 years in a row (including 2021). We have also been rated a World’s Most Ethical Company by the Ethisphere Institute for eight consecutive years (including 2021), and are included in both the Dow Jones World Sustainability Index and the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index for two years in a row.

CBRE History

We will mark our 115th year of continuous operations in 2021, tracing our origins to a company founded in San Francisco in the aftermath of the 1906 earthquake. Since then, we have grown into the largest global commercial real estate services and investment firm (in terms of 2020 revenue) through organic growth and strategic acquisitions.

Our Business Segments and Primary Services

CBRE Group, Inc. is a holding company that conducts all of its operations through its indirect subsidiaries. CBRE Group, Inc. does not have any independent operations or employees. CBRE Services, Inc., our direct wholly-owned subsidiary, is also a holding company and is the primary obligor or issuer with respect to most of our long-term indebtedness.

We report our operations through the following business segments: (1) Advisory Services, (2) Global Workplace Solutions and (3) Real Estate Investments.
1
Table of Contents
Advisory Services

Advisory Services provides a comprehensive range of services globally, including property leasing, property sales, mortgage services, property management, project management and valuation. Most of our Advisory Services operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary CBRE, Inc. Our mortgage services, the vast majority of which are in the United States (U.S.), are conducted exclusively through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary operating under the name CBRE Capital Markets, Inc. (CBRE Capital Markets) and its affiliates.

The primary services within Advisory Services are further described below.

Leasing Services

We provide strategic advice and execution for owners/investors, and occupiers/tenants of real estate, primarily in connection with the leasing of office, industrial and retail space. In 2020, we negotiated leases valued at approximately $108.5 billion globally. While the majority of our leasing revenue is reported in the Advisory Services segment, we also earn leasing revenue for certain contractual occupier clients in the Global Workplace Solutions segment that arises as a direct result of a business relationship with that segment.

We generate significant business from account-based occupier clients, where we are retained to negotiate leases for all or a portion of their portfolio. This results in recurring revenue over time. We believe we are the market leader for leasing services in most leading U.S. metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau), including Atlanta, Austin, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Kansas City, Los Angeles, New York, Orlando, Philadelphia, Phoenix, San Francisco, Seattle and St. Louis.

Capital Markets

We offer clients property sales and mortgage services. The close integration of these services helps to meet marketplace demand for comprehensive capital markets solutions. During 2020, we closed approximately $234.8 billion of capital markets transactions globally, including $181.6 billion of property sales transactions and $53.2 billion of mortgage originations and loan sales.

We are the leading property sales advisor globally. In the U.S., we accounted for approximately 17% of investment sales transactions greater than $2.5 million across all property types in 2020, according to Real Capital Analytics. Our mortgage brokerage professionals arrange, originate and service commercial mortgage loans through relationships established with investment banking firms, national and regional banks, credit companies, insurance companies, U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprises (GSEs), and pension funds.

Globally, our loan origination and sales volume in 2020 was $53.2 billion, including approximately $21.4 billion for U.S. GSEs. Most of the GSE loans were financed through revolving warehouse credit lines through a CBRE subsidiary that is dedicated exclusively for this purpose and were substantially risk mitigated by either obtaining a contractual purchase commitment from the GSE or confirming a forward-trade commitment for the issuance and purchase of a mortgage-backed security to be secured by the loan. We also oversee a loan servicing portfolio, which totaled approximately $268.6 billion globally at year-end 2020.

In many countries that we operate in (including the U.S.), our real estate services professionals (both leasing and capital markets) are compensated primarily through commissions, which are payable upon completion of an assignment. This mitigates the effect of compensation, our largest expense, on our operating margins during difficult market conditions. We strive to retain top professionals through an attractive compensation program tied to productivity as well as investments in support resources, including professional development and training, market research and data/information, technology, branding and marketing.

2
Table of Contents
Property and Project Management Services

We provide property management services on a contractual basis, primarily for owners of and investors in office, industrial and retail properties. These services include construction management, marketing, building engineering, accounting and financial services. As of December 31, 2020, we managed 2.7 billion square feet of properties globally for property owners/investors. We are compensated for our services through a monthly management fee earned based on either a specified percentage of the monthly rental income, rental receipts generated from the property under management or a fixed fee. We are also often reimbursed for our administrative and payroll costs directly attributable to the properties under management. Our management agreements with our property management services clients may be terminated by either party with notice generally ranging between 30 to 90 days; however, we have developed long-term relationships with many of these clients and the typical contract continues for multiple years. We believe our contractual relationships with these clients put us in an advantageous position to provide other services to them, including leasing, refinancing, disposition and appraisal.

Project management services are provided to owners, investors and occupiers of real estate in local markets. Revenues from project management services generally include fixed management fees, variable fees and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues from project management may also include reimbursement of payroll and related costs for personnel providing the services and subcontracted vendor costs. While the majority of our project management revenue is reported in our Global Workplace Solutions segment, we also report one-off and non-contractual project management revenue in our Advisory Services segment. In 2020, project management revenue in our Advisory Services segment represented approximately 31% of total project management revenue for CBRE.

Valuation Services

We provide valuation services that include market-value appraisals, litigation support, discounted cash flow analyses, feasibility studies as well as consulting services such as property condition reports, hotel advisory and environmental consulting. Our valuation business has developed proprietary systems for data management, analysis and valuation report preparation, which we believe provide us with an advantage over our competitors. We believe that our valuation business is one of the largest in the commercial real estate industry. During 2020, we completed over 200,800 valuation, appraisal and advisory assignments, excluding residential valuations in Asia Pacific.

Global Workplace Solutions

Global Workplace Solutions provides a broad suite of integrated, contractually-based outsourcing services to occupiers of real estate, including facilities management, project management and transaction services (leasing and sales).

We believe the outsourcing of corporate real estate services is a long-term trend in our industry, with multi-national corporations, and other large occupiers of space utilizing global, full-service real estate firms to achieve better workplaces for their people, while attempting to lower their cost of occupancy. We typically enter into multi-year, often multi-service, outsourcing contracts with services delivered via dedicated account teams and/or an on-demand basis. The key outsourcing services offered through this business segment are described below.

Facilities Management Services

Facilities Management involves the day-to-day management of client-occupied space for traditional office space, such as headquarter buildings, regional offices and administrative offices, as well as facilities serving specialized industries, such as data centers, life science and medical facilities, distribution warehouses, government facilities and retail stores. Contracts for facilities management services are often structured so that we are reimbursed for client-dedicated personnel costs and subcontracted vendor costs as well as associated overhead expenses plus a monthly fee, and in some cases, annual incentives tied to agreed-upon performance targets, with any penalties typically capped. In addition, we have contracts for facilities management services based on fixed-fee unit prices or guaranteed maximum prices. Fixed-fee contracts are typically structured where an agreed-upon scope of work is delivered for a fixed price while guaranteed maximum price contracts are structured with an agreed upon scope of work that will be provided to the client for a not-to-exceed price. We furnish facilities management services to clients with single or multiple-location assets as well as regional, national and global portfolios. As of December 31, 2020, we managed approximately 4.3 billion square feet of facilities on behalf of occupiers.

3
Table of Contents
Project Management Services

Project management services are typically provided on a portfolio-wide or programmatic basis. Revenues from project management services generally include fixed management fees, variable fees, lump sum and incentive fees if certain agreed-upon performance targets are met. Revenues from project management may also include reimbursement of payroll and related costs for personnel providing the services and subcontracted vendor costs. In 2020, we were responsible for implementing project management contracts valued at approximately $93.0 billion. While the majority of our project management revenue is reported in our Global Workplace Solutions segment, as previously mentioned, we also report project management revenue in our Advisory Services segment. In 2020, project management revenue in our Global Workplace Solutions segment represented approximately 69% of total project management revenue for CBRE.

Transaction Services

We provide strategic advice and execution for occupiers of real estate in connection with the leasing, sale or acquisition of office, industrial and retail space. Within the Global Workplace Solutions business, transaction services are performed for account-based clients, often as a key part of an integrated suite of commercial real estate services (with leasing being the most meaningful revenue stream included in our Global Workplace Solutions revenue). In 2020, leasing revenue included in our Global Workplace Solutions revenue represented approximately 2% of global leasing revenue for CBRE.

Real Estate Investments

Real Estate Investments includes: (i)  investment management services provided globally; (ii) development services in the U.S. and United Kingdom (U.K.); and (iii) flexible office space solutions.

Investment Management Services

Investment management services are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CBRE Global Investors, LLC (CBRE Global Investors) and its global affiliates. CBRE Global Investors provides investment management services to pension funds, insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, foundations, endowments and other institutional investors seeking to generate returns and diversification through investment in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure, master limited partnerships and other assets. We sponsor investment programs that span the risk/return spectrum in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. In some strategies, CBRE Global Investors and its investment teams co-invest with its limited partners.

CBRE Global Investors’ offerings are organized into five primary categories: (1) direct real estate investments through sponsored funds; (2) direct real estate investments through separate accounts; (3) indirect real estate and infrastructure investments through listed securities; (4) indirect real estate, infrastructure and private equity investments through multi-manager investment programs; and (5) credit investments backed by real estate through sponsored funds, separate accounts or pooled strategies.

Assets under management (AUM) totaled $122.7 billion at December 31, 2020 as compared to $112.9 billion at December 31, 2019, an increase of $9.8 billion ($5.2 billion in local currency).

Development Services

Development services are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Trammell Crow Company, LLC, which provides commercial real estate development services in the U.S., and Telford Homes Plc, a developer of residential multi-family properties in the U.K.

Trammell Crow Company pursues opportunistic, risk-mitigated development and investment strategies for users of and investors in commercial real estate, as well as for its own account. The company is active in industrial, office, residential multi-family/mixed-use projects, life sciences and healthcare facilities of all types (medical office buildings, hospitals and ambulatory surgery centers) and retail properties. Trammell Crow Company is compensated by its clients on a fee basis with
4
Table of Contents
no, or limited, ownership interest in a property; in partnership with its clients through co-investment – either on an individual project basis or through programs with certain strategic capital partners or for its own account with 100% ownership. Development services activity in which Trammell Crow Company has an ownership interest is conducted through subsidiaries that are consolidated or unconsolidated for financial reporting purposes, depending primarily on the extent and nature of our ownership interest.

Telford Homes is a developer of residential-led, mixed-use sites in locations across London, where the need for homes exceeds supply. In recent years, Telford has undertaken a strategic shift to focus on the growing build-to-rent/multifamily market and is pursuing such opportunities with a number of third-party investors.

At December 31, 2020, we had $14.9 billion of development projects in process, and our development pipeline (prospective projects that we estimate have a greater than 50% chance of closing or where land has been acquired and the projected construction start date is more than one year out) totaled $6.1 billion at December 31, 2020.

Flexible-Space Solutions

Flexible-space solutions operations are conducted through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CBRE Hana, LLC (Hana). Hana develops and operates integrated, scalable, flexible workspaces, with a particular focus on dedicated office suites that appeal to large enterprises. It also offers flexible conference room and event workspaces and communal co-working space. Hana helps institutional property owners meet the rapidly growing demand from real estate occupiers for flexible office space solutions.

Competition

We face competition across our lines of business on an international, national, regional and local level. Although we are the largest commercial real estate services firm in the world in terms of 2020 revenue, our relative competitive position varies significantly across geographic markets, property types and services. We face competition from other global, national, regional and local commercial real estate service providers; companies that traditionally competed in limited portions of our facilities management business and have expanded into other outsourcing offerings; in-house corporate real estate departments and property owners/developers that self-perform real estate services; investment banking firms, investment managers and developers that compete with us to raise and place investment capital; and accounting/consulting firms that advise on real estate strategies. Some of these firms may have greater financial resources than we do.

Despite ongoing consolidation, the commercial real estate services industry remains highly fragmented and competitive. Although many of our competitors are substantially smaller than we are, some of them are larger on a regional or local-market basis or have a stronger position in a specific market segment or service offering. Among our primary competitors are other large national and global firms, such as Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated (JLL), Cushman & Wakefield plc, Colliers International Group Inc., Savills plc, and Newmark Group Inc.; market-segment specialists, such as Eastdil Secured, Marcus & Millichap, Inc. and Walker & Dunlop, Inc.; and firms with business lines that compete with our occupier outsourcing business, such as ISS, and Sodexo S.A. In addition, in recent years, providers of flexible office-space solutions, such as WeWork, IWG/Regus/Spaces, Industrious National Management Company LLC (“Industrious”) and Knotel, have offered services directly to occupiers, providing competition, particularly for smaller space requirements. These providers also compete directly with our flexible-space solutions subsidiary, Hana.

Seasonality

In a typical year, a significant portion of our revenue is seasonal, which an investor should keep in mind when comparing our financial condition and results of operations on a quarter-by-quarter basis. Historically, our revenue, operating income, net income and cash flow from operating activities have tended to be lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter of each year. Revenue, earnings and cash flow have generally been concentrated in the fourth calendar quarter due to the focus on completing sales, financing and leasing transactions prior to year-end. The severe and ongoing impact of the novel coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic may cause seasonality to deviate from historical patterns.

5
Table of Contents
Human Capital

People & Culture

People are at the center of our strategy. As a services organization, we aspire to deliver measurably superior client outcomes. Attracting, retaining and developing the best talent is essential to achieving these goals. Our human capital programs help prepare our professionals for critical roles and future leadership positions, reward our people with competitive pay and benefits, foster an engaging and inclusive workplace, and improve employee productivity through investments in technology, tools and resources. At December 31, 2020, excluding our independent affiliates, we had more than 100,000 employees worldwide, approximately 48% of whose costs are fully reimbursed by clients and are mostly in our Global Workplace Solutions segment and our property management line of business within our Advisory Services segment. At December 31, 2020, approximately 13% of our employees worldwide were subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our global workforce at December 31, 2020 is comprised of approximately 33% female employees and 67% male employees.

RISE Values

We champion four key values—Respect, Integrity, Service, Excellence—which serve as the foundation upon which our company is built and as a touchstone for how our employees conduct themselves.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We are committed to creating an inclusive workplace—one that promotes and values diversity, and thrives when our people feel safe, valued and heard. To lead this effort, we created the role of Chief Responsibility Officer, a senior executive-level position reporting directly to our Chief Executive Officer. We also continue to implement internal initiatives to increase diversity in our workforce and strengthen an inclusive culture. Among them is a company policy which provides that a diverse candidate should be included at the in-person interview stage for all positions at the Director level and above, the interview panel for all positions at the Director level and above should include a diverse interviewer, and at least one diversity and inclusion-focused hiring objective is included in all performance appraisals for Director level and above employees. Another significant way we advance workplace diversity is through our employee business resource groups, which are an integral component of our DE&I efforts. The resource groups offer career and professional development opportunities, connections and networking possibilities across all business lines and regions, and community involvement opportunities. The company has also rolled out four different programs that fund diversity recruiting and committed to spending $1 billion with diverse suppliers in 2021, and to grow this spend to $3 billion in five years. In 2020, our policies and practices earned the company a place in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index and the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index.

Total Rewards

We recognize and appreciate that compensation and benefits are an important part of the employment relationship. We provide competitive total rewards programs in all the markets in which we operate, including fixed and variable pay, and comprehensive, company-specific benefits that complement legislatively required programs. Additionally, managers may implement flexible work arrangements, such as compressed work weeks and flextime, after considering several factors such as the nature of the employee’s work. We remain committed to providing eligible employees with meaningful and affordable benefits. We provide a variety of programs to support holistic physical and behavioral health, short- and long-term financial stability, family planning and emotional resiliency for employees at any stage in their career.

Learning and Development

We prioritize and invest in a multitude of training and development programs that enable employees to build satisfying careers. These include webinars, classroom training, self-paced e-learning, coaching, mentoring and a variety of on-the-job projects. To increase diversity, equity and inclusion awareness and adoption, we also launched a new mandatory diversity training program in 2020 for all employees globally. As part of this diversity training program, our senior leaders completed an intercultural development inventory self-assessment, attended a 3-hour instructor-led virtual session and developed an inclusive leader personal action plan.

6
Table of Contents
Communication and Engagement

Our success depends on employees understanding how their work contributes to the company’s overall strategy. We use a variety of channels to facilitate two-way communication, including open forums with executives, employee experience surveys and engagement through our employee resource groups.

Workplace Safety and Well-Being

We drive a culture where safety and well-being are incorporated into every business decision. We insist on high global standards and leadership accountability and strive to continually improve safety outcomes. We define well-being across five dimensions: occupational, social, environmental, physical, and intellectual. In 2020, we hosted a globally coordinated Safety and Well-Being Week. We also launched the “Be Well” campaign, focused on supporting employee well-being and produced and published throughout the year well-being awareness podcasts and articles under the banner “Stay Well.”

Communities and Giving

We are committed to supporting and adding value to the communities where our employees live and work around the world, as well as in communities where the need is greatest. In 2020, we raised approximately $15.4 million for Covid-19 relief efforts, our largest-ever fund-raising program, thanks to the generosity of our people and a substantial company contribution. These funds are supporting organizations doing vital work in communities worldwide, and through our newly formed Employee Resilience Fund, our CBRE colleagues who are struggling financially due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Following social unrest in the U.S. in 2020, we launched a similar fund-raising program and raised approximately $2.3 million for organizations that are working for racial justice.

Intellectual Property

We regard our intellectual property as an important part of our business. We hold various trademarks and trade names worldwide, which include the “CBRE,” “Hana” and “Telford” marks. Although we believe our intellectual property plays a role in maintaining our competitive position in a number of the markets that we serve, we do not believe we would be materially, adversely affected by the expiration or termination of our trademarks or trade names or the loss of any of our other intellectual property rights other than the “CBRE” and “Trammell Crow Company” marks. We maintain trademark registrations for the “CBRE,” “Hana” and “Telford” service marks in jurisdictions where we conduct significant business.

We hold a license to use the “Trammell Crow Company” trade name pursuant to a license agreement with CF98, L.P., an affiliate of Crow Realty Investors, L.P., d/b/a Crow Holdings, which may be revoked if we fail to satisfy usage and quality control covenants under the license agreement.

In addition to trademarks and trade names, we have acquired and developed proprietary technologies for the provision of complex services and analysis. We have a number of pending patent applications relating to these proprietary technologies. We will continue to file additional patent applications on new inventions, as appropriate, demonstrating our commitment to technology and innovation. We also offer proprietary research to clients through our CBRE Research and CBRE Econometric Advisors commercial real estate market information and forecasting groups and we offer proprietary investment analysis and structures through our CBRE Global Investors business.

Material Governmental Matters

Environment

Federal, state and local laws and regulations in the countries in which we do business impose environmental liabilities, controls, disclosure rules and zoning restrictions that affect the ownership, management, development, use or sale of commercial real estate. Certain of these laws and regulations may impose liability on current or previous real property owners or operators for the cost of investigating, cleaning up or removing contamination caused by hazardous or toxic substances at a
7
Table of Contents
property, including contamination resulting from above-ground or underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos or lead at a property. If contamination occurs or is present during our role as a property or facility manager or developer, we could be held liable for such costs as a current “operator” of a property, regardless of the legality of the acts or omissions that caused the contamination and without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The operator of a site also may be liable under common law to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from exposure to hazardous substances or environmental contamination at a site, including liabilities arising from exposure to asbestos-containing materials. Under certain laws and common law principles, any failure by us to disclose environmental contamination at a property could subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of the property. Further, federal, state and local governments in the countries in which we do business have enacted various laws, regulations and treaties governing environmental and climate change, particularly for “greenhouse gases,” which seek to tax, penalize or limit their release. Such regulations could lead to increased operational or compliance costs over time.

While we are aware of the presence or the potential presence of regulated substances in the soil or groundwater at or near several properties owned, operated or managed by us that may have resulted from historical or ongoing activities on those properties, we are not aware of any material noncompliance with the environmental laws or regulations currently applicable to us, and we are not the subject of any material claim for liability with respect to contamination at any location. However, these laws and regulations may discourage sales and leasing activities and mortgage lending with respect to some properties, which may adversely affect both the commercial real estate services industry in general and us. Environmental contamination or other environmental liabilities may also negatively affect the value of commercial real estate assets held by entities that are managed by our investment management and development services businesses, which could adversely affect the results of operations of these business lines.

Available Information

Our Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report), Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available on the Investor Relations section of our website (https://ir.cbre.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). We also make available through our website other reports filed with or furnished to the SEC under the Exchange Act, including reports filed by our officers and directors under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act. All of the information on our Investor Relations website is available to be viewed free of charge. The SEC maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

Our website (http://www.cbre.com) contains information concerning us. We routinely use our website as a channel of distribution for our information, including financial and other material information. Information contained on our website is not part of this Annual Report or our other filings with the SEC. We have included the web addresses of the company and the SEC as inactive textual references only. Except as specifically incorporated by reference into this document, information on these websites is not part of this document.

8
