Overview
We own, operate and lease shared communications infrastructure that is geographically dispersed throughout the U.S., including approximately (1) 40,000 towers and other structures, such as rooftops (collectively, "towers"), and (2) 80,000 route miles of fiber primarily supporting small cell networks ("small cells") and fiber solutions. We refer to our towers, fiber and small cells assets collectively as "communications infrastructure," and to our customers on our communications infrastructure as "tenants." Our operating segments consist of (1) Towers and (2) Fiber, which includes both small cells and fiber solutions. Our core business is providing access, including space or capacity, to our shared communications infrastructure via long-term contracts in various forms, including lease, license, sublease and service agreements (collectively, "tenant contracts"). We seek to increase our site rental revenues by adding more tenants on our shared communications infrastructure, which we expect to result in significant incremental cash flows due to our low incremental operating costs. We operate as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. See "Item 1. Business—REIT Status" and notes 2 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements.
Over the last two decades, we have assembled a leading portfolio of towers predominately through acquisitions from large wireless carriers or their predecessors. More recently, both through acquisitions and new construction of small cells and fiber, we have extended our communications infrastructure presence by investing significantly in our Fiber segment. Through our product offerings of towers and small cells, we seek to provide a comprehensive solution to enable our wireless tenants to expand coverage and capacity for wireless networks. Furthermore, within our Fiber segment, we seek to generate cash flow growth and stockholder return by deploying our fiber for both small cells' and fiber solutions' tenants.
Approximately 56% and 71% of our towers are located in the 50 and 100 largest U.S. basic trading areas ("BTAs"), respectively. Our towers have a significant presence in each of the top 100 BTAs. We derive approximately 40% of our Towers site rental gross margin from towers located on land that we own, including through fee interests and perpetual easements, and we derive approximately 60% of our Towers site rental gross margin from towers located on land that we lease, sublease, manage or license. The contracts for the land under our towers have an average total remaining life of approximately 36 years (including all renewal terms exercisable at our option), weighted based on Towers site rental gross margin. The majority of our small cells and fiber are located in major metropolitan areas, including a presence within every major U.S. market. The vast majority of our fiber assets are located on public rights-of-way.
Our largest tenants are T-Mobile (which merged with Sprint in April 2020), AT&T and Verizon Wireless, which collectively accounted for approximately 76% of our 2020 consolidated site rental revenues (including revenues previously derived from Sprint). See note 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our largest tenants. Site rental revenues represented 91% of our 2020 consolidated net revenues, of which approximately 66% and 34% were from our Towers segment and our Fiber segment, respectively. Within our Fiber segment, 70% and 30% of our 2020 Fiber site rental revenues related to fiber solutions and small cells, respectively. The vast majority of our site rental revenues are of a recurring nature and are derived from long-term tenant contracts with our tenants.
Our site rental revenues derived from wireless tenants typically result from long-term tenant contracts with (1) initial terms of five to 15 years, (2) multiple renewal periods of five to 10 years each, exercisable at the option of the tenant, (3) limited termination rights for our tenants and (4) monthly rental payments with contractual escalations of the rental price and, in some cases, an additional upfront payment. Our site rental revenues derived from our fiber solutions tenants (including from organizations with high-bandwidth and multi-location demands) typically result from tenant contracts with (1) initial terms that generally vary between three to 20 years and (2) a fixed monthly recurring fee and, in some cases, an additional upfront payment. Exclusive of renewals exercisable at the tenants' option, our tenant contracts have a weighted-average remaining life of approximately five years and represent $27 billion of expected future cash inflows.
As part of our effort to provide comprehensive communications infrastructure solutions, as an ancillary business, we also offer certain services primarily relating to our Towers segment, predominately consisting of (1) site development services primarily relating to existing or new tenant equipment installations, including: site acquisition, architectural and engineering, or zoning and permitting (collectively, "site development services") and (2) tenant equipment installation or subsequent augmentations (collectively, "installation services").
4

Strategy
As a leading provider of shared communications infrastructure in the U.S., our strategy is to create long-term stockholder value via a combination of (1) growing cash flows generated from our existing portfolio of communications infrastructure, (2) returning a meaningful portion of our cash generated by operating activities to our common stockholders in the form of dividends and (3) investing capital efficiently to grow cash flows and long-term dividends per share. Our strategy is based, in part, on our belief that the U.S. is the most attractive market for shared communications infrastructure investment with the greatest long-term growth potential. We measure our efforts to create "long-term stockholder value" by the combined payment of dividends to stockholders and growth in our per-share results. The key elements of our strategy are to:
•Grow cash flows from our existing communications infrastructure. We are focused on maximizing the recurring site rental cash flows generated from providing our tenants with long-term access to our shared infrastructure assets, which we believe is the core driver of value for our stockholders. Tenant additions or modifications of existing tenant equipment (collectively, "tenant additions") enable our tenants to expand coverage and capacity in order to meet increasing demand for data while generating high incremental returns for our business. We believe our product offerings of towers and small cells provide a comprehensive solution to our wireless tenants' growing network needs through our shared communications infrastructure model, which is an efficient and cost-effective way to serve our tenants. Additionally, we believe our ability to share our fiber assets across multiple tenants to deploy both small cells and offer fiber solutions allows us to generate cash flows and increase stockholder return.
•Return cash generated by operating activities to common stockholders in the form of dividends. We believe that distributing a meaningful portion of our cash generated by operating activities appropriately provides common stockholders with increased certainty for a portion of expected long-term stockholder value while still allowing us to retain sufficient flexibility to invest in our business and deliver growth. We believe this decision reflects the translation of the high-quality, long-term contractual cash flows of our business into stable capital returns to common stockholders.
•Invest capital efficiently to grow cash flows and long-term dividends per share. In addition to adding tenants to existing communications infrastructure, we seek to invest our available capital, including the net cash generated by our operating activities and external financing sources, in a manner that will increase long-term stockholder value on a risk-adjusted basis. These investments include constructing and acquiring new communications infrastructure that we expect will generate future cash flow growth and attractive long-term returns by adding tenants to those assets over time. Our historical investments have included the following (in no particular order):
◦construction of towers, fiber and small cells;
◦acquisitions of towers, fiber and small cells;
◦acquisitions of land interests (which primarily relate to land assets under towers);
◦improvements and structural enhancements to our existing communications infrastructure;
◦purchases of shares of our common stock from time to time; and
◦purchases, repayments or redemptions of our debt.
Our strategy to create long-term stockholder value is based on our belief that there will be considerable future demand for our communications infrastructure based on the location of our assets and the rapid growth in the demand for data. We believe that such demand for our communications infrastructure will continue, will result in growth of our cash flows due to tenant additions on our existing communications infrastructure, and will create other growth opportunities for us, such as demand for newly constructed or acquired communications infrastructure, as described above. Further, we seek to augment the long-term value creation associated with growing our recurring site rental cash flows by offering certain ancillary site development and installation services within our Towers segment.
REIT Status
We operate as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, we are generally entitled to a deduction for dividends that we pay and therefore are not subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our net taxable income that is currently distributed to our stockholders. We may be subject to certain federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income or assets, including (1) taxes on any undistributed income, (2) taxes related to our taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs"), (3) franchise taxes, (4) property taxes and (5) transfer taxes. In addition, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code"), to maintain qualification for taxation as a REIT.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which was signed into law in 2017 ("Tax Reform Act"), made substantial changes to the Code. Among the many changes impacting corporations are a significant reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the repeal
5

of the corporate alternative minimum tax for years beginning in 2018 and limitations on the deductibility of interest expense. In addition, under the Tax Reform Act, qualified REIT dividends (within the meaning of Section 199A(e)(3) of the Code) constitute a part of a non-corporate taxpayer's "qualified business income amount" and thus our non-corporate U.S. stockholders may be eligible to take a qualified business income deduction in an amount equal to 20% of such dividends received from us. Without further legislative action, the 20% deduction applicable to qualified REIT dividends will expire on January 1, 2026. The Tax Reform Act has not had a material impact on us.
The vast majority of our assets and revenues are in the REIT. See notes 2 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements. Additionally, we have included in TRSs certain other assets and operations. Those TRS assets and operations will continue to be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income taxes or to foreign taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located.
Our foreign assets and operations (including our tower operations in Puerto Rico) most likely will be subject to foreign income taxes in the jurisdictions in which such assets and operations are located, regardless of whether they are included in a TRS.
To remain qualified and be taxed as a REIT, we will generally be required to annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, after the utilization of our NOLs (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) (see notes 2 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements). Our quarterly common stock dividend will delay the utilization of our NOLs and may cause certain of the NOLs to expire without utilization. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for risks associated with our REIT Status.
Industry Overview
Consumer demand for data continues to grow due to increases in data consumption and increased penetration of bandwidth-intensive devices. This increase in data consumption is driven by factors such as growth in (1) mobile entertainment (such as mobile video, mobile applications and social networking), (2) mobile internet usage (supporting web browsing and trends in telehealth, remote working and other remote communications), (3) machine-to-machine applications or the "Internet of Things" (such as connected cars and smart city technologies), and (4) the adoption of other bandwidth-intensive applications (such as cloud services and video communications). As a result, consumer wireless devices are trending toward bandwidth-intensive devices, including smartphones, laptops, tablets, wearables and other emerging and embedded devices, and U.S. wireless carriers are among the first carriers in the world to begin offering commercial 5th Generation ("5G") mobile cellular communications services to further support such growth.
We expect the following anticipated factors to contribute to potential demand for our communications infrastructure:
•consumers' growing wireless data consumption likely resulting in major wireless carriers continuing to upgrade and enhance their networks through the efficient use of both towers and small cells, including in connection with 5G deployments, in an effort to improve network quality and capacity and customer retention or satisfaction;
•prior and future potential spectrum auctioned, licensed or made available by the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") enabling additional wireless carrier network development;
•next-generation technologies and new uses for wireless communications may potentially result in new entrants or increased demand in the wireless industry, which may include companies involved in the continued evolution and deployment of the Internet of Things;
•the continued adoption of bandwidth-intensive applications could result in demand for high-capacity, multi-location, fiber-based network solutions; and
•increased government initiatives to expand broadband infrastructure to support connectivity throughout the U.S.
The Company
Virtually all of our operations in both our Towers and Fiber operating segments are located in the U.S. For more information about our operating segments, see "Item 7. MD&A—General Overview" and note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. Our core business is providing access, including space or capacity, to our shared communications infrastructure via long-term tenant contracts in the U.S. We believe our communications infrastructure is integral to our tenants' networks and organizations. See "Item 1. Business—Strategy."
6

Towers Segment. We believe towers are the most efficient and cost-effective solution for providing coverage and capacity for wireless carrier network deployments. We acquired ownership interests or exclusive rights to the majority of our towers directly or indirectly from the largest U.S. wireless carriers (or their predecessors) through transactions consummated since 1999, including transactions with (1) AT&T in 2013 ("AT&T Acquisition"), (2) T-Mobile in 2012 ("T-Mobile Acquisition"), (3) Global Signal Inc. in 2007 ("Global Signal Acquisition"), which had originally acquired the majority of its towers from Sprint (prior to Sprint's merger with T-Mobile, which was completed in 2020), (4) companies now part of Verizon Wireless in 1999 and 2000 and (5) companies now part of AT&T in 1999 and 2000.
We generally receive monthly rental payments from our Towers tenants pursuant to long-term tenant contracts. Typically, we negotiate initial contract terms of five to 15 years, with multiple renewal periods of five to 10 years each, exercisable at the option of the tenant, and our tenant contracts typically include fixed escalations (which generally exceed expected non-renewals, as discussed below). We strive to negotiate with our existing tenant base for longer contractual terms, which often contain fixed escalation rates.
Our Towers tenant contracts, while amended and re-negotiated over time, have historically led to a long-term relationship with tenants on our towers, resulting in a retention rate generally between 97% and 99% each year. In general, each renewable tenant contract automatically renews at the end of its term unless (1) the tenant provides prior notice of its intent not to renew or (2) the contract is amended or re-negotiated. See note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the minimum rental payments due to us by tenants pursuant to tenant contracts without consideration of tenant renewal options.
The average monthly rental payment from a new tenant added to towers can vary based on (1) aggregate tenant volume, (2) the region in the U.S. where the tower is located, or (3) the amount of space granted to a tenant, which can be influenced by the physical size, weight and shape of the tenant's antenna installation or related equipment. When possible, we seek to receive rental payment increases in connection with tenant contract amendments, pursuant to which our tenants add antennas or other equipment to our towers on which they already have equipment pursuant to preexisting tenant contracts. Our Towers tenant contracts and pricing are not influenced by whether or not we perform the respective site development or installation services. See "—Services" below for a further discussion of our tower installation services.
As of December 31, 2020, the average number of tenants (calculated as a unique license together with any related amendments thereto) per tower is approximately 2.1. The following chart sets forth the number of existing tenants per tower as of December 31, 2020 (see "Item 7. MD&A—Accounting and Reporting Matters—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" for a discussion of our impairment evaluation and our towers with no tenants).
cci-20201231_g2.jpg
Fiber Segment. Our Fiber segment includes both small cells and fiber solutions.
•Our small cells offload data traffic from towers and bolster our tenants' network capacity where data demand is the greatest and are typically attached to public right-of-way infrastructure, including utility poles and street lights.
•We offer certain fiber solutions to organizations with high-bandwidth and multi-location demands. Our fiber solutions provide essential connectivity resources needed to create integrated networks and support organizations.
7

Our fiber assets include those we acquired from: (1) NextG Networks, Inc. in 2012 , (2) Quanta Fiber Networks, Inc. in 2015, (3) FPL FiberNet Holdings, LLC and certain other subsidiaries of NextEra Energy, Inc. in 2017, (4) Wilcon Holdings LLC in 2017 and (5) LTS Group Holdings LLC in 2017.
We generally receive monthly recurring payments from our Fiber tenants and, in some cases, receive upfront payments, pursuant to tenant contracts. The average monthly rental payment from a new tenant can vary based on the amount or cost of (1) construction for initial and subsequent tenants, (2) fiber strand requirements and supply, (3) equipment at the site, (4) the region in the U.S. where the fiber is located and (5) any upfront payment received.
Additional site rental information. For both our Towers and Fiber segments, we have existing master agreements with our largest tenants, including T-Mobile, AT&T and Verizon Wireless. Such agreements provide certain terms (including economic terms) that govern underlying contracts (entered into during the term of the master agreements) regarding the right to use our communications infrastructure by such tenants.
Approximately half of our site rental cost of operations consists of Towers ground lease expenses, and the remainder includes fiber access expenses (primarily leases of fiber assets and other access agreements to facilitate our communications infrastructure), property taxes, repairs and maintenance, employee compensation or related benefit costs, and utilities. Assuming current leasing activity levels, our cash operating expenses generally tend to escalate at approximately the rate of inflation. We seek to add tenants to our existing communications infrastructure assets at a low incremental operating cost, delivering high incremental returns to our business. Once constructed, our communications infrastructure portfolio requires minimal sustaining capital expenditures, including maintenance or other non-discretionary capital expenditures, which are typically approximately 2% of net revenues. See note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for a tabular presentation of the rental payments we owe to landlords pursuant to our operating lease agreements.
Services. As part of our effort to provide comprehensive communications infrastructure solutions, as an ancillary business, we also offer certain services primarily relating to our Towers segment, predominately consisting of (1) site development services and (2) installation services. For 2020, approximately 65% of our services and other revenues related to installation services, and the remainder predominately related to site development services. We seek to grow our service revenues by capitalizing on (1) increased leasing volumes that may result from carrier network upgrades, (2) promoting site development services, (3) expanding the scope of our services, and (4) focusing on tenant service and deployment speed. We have the capability and expertise to install, with the assistance of our network of subcontractors, equipment or antenna systems for our tenants. We do not always provide the installation services or site development services for our tenants on our communications infrastructure as other service providers also provide these services (see also "—Competition" below). These activities are typically non-recurring and highly competitive, with several competitors in most markets. Typically, our installation services are billed on a cost-plus profit basis and site development services are billed on a fixed fee basis. The terms and pricing of both site development services and installation services are negotiated separately from our tenant contracts.
Customers. Our Towers customers are primarily comprised of large wireless carriers that operate national networks.
Our Fiber customers generally consist of large wireless carriers and organizations with high-bandwidth and multi-location demands, such as enterprise, government, education, healthcare, wholesale, financial, legal, media and entertainment, content distribution, and energy and utilities customers.
8

Our three largest tenants are T-Mobile, AT&T and Verizon Wireless. Collectively, these three tenants accounted for approximately 76% of our 2020 site rental revenues (including revenues previously derived from Sprint). See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for risks associated with our dependence on a small number of customers and note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. For 2020, our site rental revenues by tenant were as follows:
cci-20201231_g3.jpg
(a)Includes revenues previously derived from Sprint. On April 1, 2020, T-Mobile and Sprint announced the completion of their previously disclosed merger.
Sales and Marketing. Our sales organization markets our communications infrastructure with the objective of contracting access with tenants to existing communications infrastructure or to new communications infrastructure prior to construction. We seek to become the critical partner and preferred independent communications infrastructure provider for our tenants and increase tenant satisfaction relative to our peers by leveraging our (1) existing unique communications infrastructure footprint, (2) tenant relationships, (3) process-centric approach, (4) technological tools and (5) construction capabilities and expertise.
Our sales team is organized based on a variety of factors, including tenant type (such as large wireless carriers, vertical customers and organizations), product offering and geography. A team of national account directors maintains our relationships with our largest tenants. These directors work to develop new business opportunities, as well as to ensure that tenants' communications infrastructure needs are efficiently translated into new contracts for our communications infrastructure. Sales personnel in our local offices develop and maintain relationships with our tenants that are expanding their networks, entering new markets, seeking new or additional communication infrastructure offerings, bringing new technologies to market or requiring maintenance or add-on business. In addition to our full-time sales or marketing staff, a number of senior-level employees spend a significant portion of their time on sales and marketing activities and call on existing or prospective tenants.
Competition. We face competition for site rental tenants from various sources, including (1) other independent communications infrastructure owners or operators, including competitors that own, operate, or manage towers, rooftops, broadcast or transmission towers, utility poles, fiber (including non-traditional competitors such as cable providers) or small cells, (2) tenants who elect to self-perform or (3) new alternative deployment methods for communications infrastructure.
Some of our largest competitors in the Towers segment are American Tower Corporation and SBA Communications Corporation. Our Fiber segment business competitors can vary significantly based on geography. Some of the larger competitors in the Fiber segment include other owners of fiber, as well as recent and potential entrants into small cells and the fiber solutions business. We believe that location, existing communications infrastructure footprint, deployment speed, quality of service, expertise, reputation, capacity and price have been and will continue to be the most significant competitive factors affecting our businesses. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for a discussion of competition in our industry.
Competitors to our services offering can include site acquisition consultants, zoning consultants, real estate firms, right-of-way consulting firms, construction companies, tower owners or managers, radio frequency engineering consultants, our tenants' internal staff or contractors, or telecommunications equipment vendors who can provide turnkey site development services through multiple subcontractors. We believe that our tenants base their decisions on the outsourcing of services on criteria such as a company's experience, record of accomplishment, reputation, price and time for completion of a project.


9

Human Capital
The people who work for Crown Castle are essential to our ability to execute on our strategy. At January 31, 2021, we employed approximately 4,900 people, all of whom were based in the U.S. Of our total employees, approximately 24% were field workers. From time to time, we also add contingent workers to support our business.
We believe attracting, developing and retaining talented employees is paramount to serving our customers and our communities and creating value for our shareholders. Our B3 values (Be Real, Be Accountable and Be an Owner) shape our culture, drive our decision-making and guide our interactions with one another and our customers. For 2020, our voluntary employee turnover rate was approximately 3.5%. Our 2020 annual employee survey indicated strong employee engagement exceeding U.S. company norms.
We continue to focus on building a more diverse workforce and a more inclusive community to make our company stronger and more innovative. We actively partner with non-profit and community organizations to create a diverse talent pipeline. In addition, our board of directors is currently comprised of 40% female or racially diverse directors, including each of the four most recently appointed directors.
The well-being of our employees is a crucial element of our safety culture, employee engagement and productivity. We offer a competitive total rewards package which includes market-based pay, performance-based annual incentive awards, healthcare and retirement benefits, parental and family leave, holiday and paid time off and tuition assistance. We further invest in our employees' professional growth and development by providing resources and opportunities to hone their skills and expand their subject-matter expertise, which empowers them to advance their careers and enables our business to prosper.
We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements and have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. See also "Item 7. MD&A⸺General Overview⸺Coronavirus (COVID-19)" for information on the measures we have taken with respect to our workforce in light of the global outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19).
Regulatory and Environmental Matters
We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state and local regulations and laws in the U.S., including FCC and Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA") regulations and those discussed under "—Environmental" below. To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international regulations, including any environmental regulations. The summary below is based on regulations currently in effect, and such regulations are subject to review or modification by the applicable governmental authority from time to time. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we may be fined or even lose our rights to conduct some of our business.
Federal Regulations. Both the FCC and the FAA regulate towers used for wireless communications, radio, or television broadcasting. Such regulations control the siting, construction, modification, lighting, and marking of towers and may, depending on the characteristics of particular towers, require the registration of tower facilities with the FCC and the issuance of determinations confirming no hazard to air traffic. Wireless communications devices operating on towers are separately regulated and independently licensed based upon the particular frequency used. In addition, the FCC and the FAA have developed standards to consider proposals for new or modified tower or antenna structures based upon the height or location, including proximity to airports. Proposals to construct or to modify existing tower or antenna structures above certain heights are reviewed by the FAA to ensure the structure will not present a hazard to aviation, which determination may be conditioned upon compliance with lighting or marking requirements. The FCC requires its licensees to operate communications devices only on towers that comply with FAA rules and are registered with the FCC, if required by its regulations. Where tower lighting is required by FAA regulation, tower owners bear the responsibility of notifying the FAA of any tower lighting outage and ensuring the timely restoration of such outages.
State and Local Regulations. The U.S. Telecommunications Act of 1996 amended the Communications Act of 1934 to preserve state and local zoning authorities' jurisdiction over the siting of communications towers and small cells. The law, however, limits state and local zoning authority by prohibiting actions by such authorities that discriminate between different service providers of wireless communications or prohibit altogether (actually or effectively) the provision of wireless communications. Additionally, the law prohibits state and local restrictions based on the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions to the extent the facilities comply with FCC regulations.
Local regulations include city and other local ordinances (including subdivision and zoning ordinances), approvals for construction, modification and removal of towers and small cells, and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers. These regulations vary greatly, but typically require us to obtain prior approval from local officials. Local zoning authorities may render decisions that prevent the construction or modification of towers or small cells, or place conditions on such
10

construction or modifications that are responsive to community residents' concerns regarding the height, visibility, or other characteristics of such infrastructure. Over the last several years, the FCC has adopted regulations and 28 states have passed legislation intended to expedite and streamline the deployment of wireless networks, including establishing presumptively reasonable timeframes for reviews by local and state governments. Notwithstanding such developments, decisions of local regulatory authorities and utilities in certain jurisdictions may continue to adversely affect deployment timing and cost.
Certain of our subsidiaries hold state authorizations, including authorizations to act as competitive local exchange carriers ("CLECs"), to provide intrastate telecommunication services in addition to FCC authorization to provide domestic interstate telecommunication services. State authorizations may help promote access to public rights-of-way, which is beneficial to the timely deployment of fiber and small cells, and often allow us to deploy such infrastructure in locations where zoning restrictions might otherwise delay, restrict, or prevent building or expanding traditional wireless tower and rooftop sites. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for additional information regarding rights to our infrastructure.
Environmental. We are required to comply with a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations protecting environmental quality, including air and water quality, and wildlife. To date, we have not incurred any material fines or penalties or experienced any material adverse effects to our business as a result of any domestic or international environmental regulations or matters. See "Item 1A. Risk Factors" for additional information regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
The construction of new towers and small cells or, in some cases, their modification in the U.S. may be subject to environmental review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended ("NEPA"), which requires federal agencies to evaluate the environmental impact of major federal actions. NEPA regulations require applicants to investigate the potential environmental impact of the proposed tower or small cells construction. If the FCC determines that the proposed tower or small cells construction or modification presents a significant environmental impact, the FCC is required to prepare an environmental impact statement, which is subject to public comment. Such determination could significantly delay the FCC's approval of the construction or modification.
Our operations are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the management, use, storage, disposal, emission, or remediation of, or exposure to, hazardous or non-hazardous substances, materials, or wastes. As an owner, lessee, or operator of real property, we are subject to certain environmental laws that impose strict, joint-and-several liability for the cleanup of on-site or off-site contamination relating to existing or historical operations; or we could also be subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to such contamination. In general, our tenant contracts prohibit our tenants from using or storing any hazardous substances on our communications infrastructure sites in violation of applicable environmental laws and require our tenants to provide notice of certain environmental conditions caused by them.
We are subject to Occupational Safety and Health Administration and similar guidelines regarding employee protection from radio frequency exposure. In recent years, the scientific community has extensively studied low-level radio frequency emissions to determine whether they have any connection to certain negative health effects, such as cancer.
We have compliance programs and monitoring projects designed to promote compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the costs of compliance with existing or future environmental laws will not have a material adverse effect on us.
Available Information
We maintain a website at www.crowncastle.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K (and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("Exchange Act")), proxy statements and other information about us are made available, free of charge, through the investor relations section of our website at http://investor.crowncastle.com and at the SEC's website at http://sec.gov as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.
In addition, our corporate governance guidelines, business practices, ethics policy and financial code of ethics and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee are available through the investor relations section of our website at http://www.crowncastle.com/investors/corporate-governance, and such information is also available in print to any stockholder who requests it. We intend to post to our website any amendments to or waivers from each of the ethics policy and financial code of ethics applicable to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Controller that are required to be disclosed.
11
