OVERVIEW OF BUSINESS

We were founded in 1846 and incorporated in Delaware in 1925.  We develop, manufacture and market a broad range of consumer household and personal care products and specialty products focused on animal and food production, chemicals and cleaners. Our consumer products marketing efforts are focused principally on our 13 “power brands.” These well-recognized brand names include ARM & HAMMER® baking soda, cat litter, laundry detergent, carpet deodorizer and other baking soda based products; TROJAN® condoms, lubricants and vibrators; OXICLEAN® stain removers, cleaning solutions, laundry detergents and bleach alternatives; SPINBRUSH® battery-operated toothbrushes; FIRST RESPONSE® home pregnancy and ovulation test kits; NAIR® depilatories; ORAJEL® oral analgesic; XTRA® laundry detergent; L’IL CRITTERS® and VITAFUSION® gummy dietary supplements for children and adults, respectively; BATISTE® dry shampoo; WATERPIK® water flossers and showerheads, FLAWLESS® products and ZICAM® cold remedy products.

We sell our consumer products under a variety of brands through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, dollar and other discount stores, pet and other specialty stores and websites and other e-commerce channels, all of which sell our products to consumers. We sell our specialty products to industrial customers, livestock producers and through distributors.

Sustainability and Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”)

We believe that sustainable operations are both financially and operationally beneficial to our business, and critical to the health of the communities in which we operate. Accordingly, each year we publish a Sustainability Report that discloses our business and corporate responsibility commitments by detailing our environmental, social and governance performance, including our metrics and targets and other key components of our sustainability platform. Our 2019 Sustainability Report is available on our web site at https://churchdwight.com/responsibility/sustainability-reports.aspx, and our 2020 Sustainability Report will be available in April 2021 (the “2020 Sustainability Report” and together with the 2019 Sustainability Report, the “Sustainability Reports”).   References to our Sustainability Reports are for informational purposes only and neither the Sustainability Reports nor the other information on our website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  See pages 11-12 in this Item 1 of this Annual Report under “Employees and Human Capital” for a discussion of our human capital management.

Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations relating to environmental concerns, including air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management activities, and the safety of our employees. We endeavor to take actions necessary to comply with such regulations. These steps include periodic environmental and health and safety audits of our facilities. The audits, conducted by independent firms with expertise in environmental, health and safety compliance, include site visits at each location, as well as, a review of documentary information, to determine compliance with such federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations. However, our environmental priorities extend beyond our compliance efforts.

Our global sustainability platform is one of our leadership strategies, which we have derived from our heritage and organizational values. The following six pillars are the core focus of our sustainability efforts, and are identified with their corresponding primary ESG priorities:

•
	

Our Brands: Delight consumers with our brands and contribute towards a more sustainable world (Environmental and Social).

•
	

Products: Provide safe and effective products for consumers and the environment (Environmental and Social).

•
	

Packaging: Utilize consumer friendly and environmentally responsible packaging (Environmental).

•
	

Employees and Communities: Embrace the principles of diversity, equity and inclusion and good corporate citizenship and social responsibility within the communities we can impact (Social).

•
	

Responsible Sourcing: Improve our suppliers’ environmental, labor, health & safety and ethical practices (Environmental and Social).

•
	

Environment: Minimize environmental impact of our global operations, with a focus on increased renewable energy usage, reduced water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions and solid waste to landfills (Environmental).

Our governance focus includes the processes, resources and systems in support of our sustainability and ESG efforts, as well as our corporate governance, which is separate from our sustainability program, all as will be described in our Proxy Statement for our upcoming Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption “Sustainability and ESG” and in our 2020 Sustainability Report.   Our Corporate Issues Council (the “Council”), comprised of senior executives representing all of our key functional areas, guides the integration of sustainability with all

4

 

parts of our business and drives continuous improvement in our sustainability approach and performance. The Council takes the lead in defining and implementing our sustainability strategies across the six pillars of our global sustainability program. Our Board of Directors, acting principally through its Governance & Nominating Committee, oversees our sustainability and ESG efforts, with that Committee and the Compensation & Organization and Audit Committees each focusing on specified areas of sustainability and ESG. Our Independent Lead Director is responsible for ensuring that stockholder sustainability requests, recommendations and proposals are evaluated by the Governance & Nominating Committee, additional committees within the Board as appropriate, and then by the Board of Directors, if needed.

In 2020, our continued progress in key areas of sustainability earned recognition from various third parties, Newsweek’s America’s Most Responsible Companies Top 100 List, the EPA’s Green Power Partnership Top 100 list, and the FTSE4Good Index Series, among others.

We use the standards and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, Sustainability Accounting Standards Board industry specific standards and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures to inform our sustainability and ESG disclosures included in this Annual Report, our Proxy Statement and our Sustainability Reports.  The “materiality” thresholds in those standards and guidelines may differ from the concept of “materiality” for purposes of the federal securities laws and disclosures required by the Commission’s rules in this Annual Report.  Moreover, the inclusion of sustainability and ESG disclosures in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the Commission does not necessarily imply that we consider them to be material for purposes of the federal securities laws or the Commission’s rules and regulations governing such disclosure.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS AND PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

 

As discussed in more detail below, we operate in three principal segments: Consumer Domestic, Consumer International, and our Specialty Products Division (“SPD”). Refer to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and the discussion in “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for information concerning the results of each of our segments.

All domestic brand “rankings” contained in this Annual Report are based on dollar share rankings from ACNielsen AOC (All Outlets Combined) for the 52 weeks ended December 31, 2020. Foreign brand “rankings” are derived from several sources.

 

Recent Acquisitions

On December 1, 2020, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Consumer Health Holdco LLC, the owner of the ZICAM® brand and cold remedy products business (the “Zicam Acquisition”).  We paid $512.7, net of cash acquired, at closing and deferred an additional cash payment of $20.0 related to certain indemnifications provided by the seller.  The additional amount is payable five years from the closing.  Zicam’s annual net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 were approximately $107.0.  The acquisition was financed by us with a combination of cash on hand and short-term borrowings.  The ZICAM business is managed in the Consumer Domestic segment.

 

Consumer Domestic

Our founders first marketed sodium bicarbonate, otherwise known as baking soda, in 1846 for use in home baking. Today, this product has a wide variety of uses in the home, including as a refrigerator and freezer deodorizer, scratch-free cleaner and deodorizer for kitchen surfaces and cooking appliances, bath additive, dentifrice, cat litter deodorizer and swimming pool pH stabilizer. We specialize in baking soda-based products, as well as other products which use the same raw materials or technology or which are sold in the same markets.  Our Consumer Domestic segment includes each of our 13 power brands, as well as other well-known brands and household and personal care products.  We divide the Consumer Domestic segment into household and personal care product groups.  


5

 

Household Products

In 2020, household products constituted approximately 54% of our Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 42% of our consolidated net sales.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda remains the number one leading brand of baking soda in terms of consumer recognition of the brand name and reputation for quality and value. The cleaning and deodorizing properties of baking soda have led to the development of numerous baking soda-based household products. For example, we market ARM & HAMMER FRIDGE FRESH®, a refrigerator deodorizer equipped with a baking soda filter to help keep food tasting fresher, and ARM & HAMMER Carpet Deodorizer.  Our other primary household products include laundry detergents marketed under the ARM & HAMMER, OXICLEAN and XTRA brands, fabric softener sheets marketed under the ARM & HAMMER brand, cat litter under our ARM & HAMMER brand, and household cleaning products under the CLEAN SHOWER®, SCRUB FREE®, ORANGE GLO®, OXICLEAN and KABOOM® brands.  Our laundry detergents constitute our largest consumer business, measured by net sales.

 

Personal Care Products

In 2020, personal care products constituted approximately 46% of our Consumer Domestic sales and approximately 35% of our consolidated net sales.

Our personal care business was founded on the unique strengths of our ARM & HAMMER trademark and baking soda technology. We have expanded our personal care business through the acquisition of antiperspirants, oral care products, depilatories, reproductive health products, oral analgesics, nasal saline moisturizers, and dietary supplements under a variety of other leading brand names.

ARM & HAMMER Baking Soda, when used as a dentifrice, helps whiten and polish teeth, removes plaque and leaves the mouth feeling fresh and clean. These properties led to the development of a complete line of sodium bicarbonate-based dentifrice products that are marketed and sold nationally primarily under the ARM & HAMMER brand name. Our other personal care products include antiperspirants and deodorants under the ARRID® and ARM & HAMMER brands, condoms under the TROJAN brand (the number one condom brand in the U.S.), battery-operated toothbrushes under the SPINBRUSH brand (the number two leading brand of battery-operated toothbrushes in the U.S. in 2020), water flossers and showerheads under the WATERPIK brand (the number one water flosser and replacement showerhead brand in the U.S.), home pregnancy and ovulation test kits under the FIRST RESPONSE brand (the number one selling brand in the U.S.), hair-removal products under the NAIR, FLAWLESS and FINISHING TOUCH brands, oral analgesics and oral care products under the ORAJEL brand (the market leader in the toothache, canker sore, and children’s teething categories in the U.S.), children’s gummy dietary supplements under the L’IL CRITTERS brand and adult gummy dietary supplements under the VITAFUSION brand (both number one leading brands in their respective categories), ZICAM brand (the #1 zinc supplement in the United States in the vitamins, minerals, and supplements cough/cold shortening category), a growing number of hair products under the BATISTE (the number one dry shampoo in the U.S.), VIVISCAL (the number one leading supplement for thinning hair), TOPPIK® (the number one leading brand of cosmetics for thinning hair), and XFUSION® brands, and nasal saline moisturizers and solutions under the SIMPLY SALINE® brand.

Consumer International

Our Consumer International segment markets a variety of personal care, household and over-the-counter products in international subsidiary markets, including Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Mexico and the United Kingdom and in over 130 global export markets around the world, including China and Japan (the “Global Markets Group” or “GMG”).

Total Consumer International net sales represented approximately 17% of our consolidated net sales in 2020.  Net sales of the subsidiary businesses originating in Europe, Canada, Australia and Mexico accounted for 34%, 27%, 8% and 7%, respectively, of our 2020 international net sales in this segment. No other country in which we operate accounts for more than 20% of our total international net sales and no product line accounts for more than 20% of total international net sales.

Some of our U.S. power brands such as ARM & HAMMER, BATISTE, NAIR, OXICLEAN, TROJAN, L’IL CRITTERS, SPINBRUSH, WATERPIK, FLAWLESS and VITAFUSION are distributed in many of our international markets. In addition, we also export unique brands such as STERIMAR®, natural nasal decongestant out of France and FEMFRESH®, feminine hygiene portfolio out of the United Kingdom, to many countries around the world.

We also market the CURASH® line of babycare products in Australia, and GRAVOL® anti-nauseant and RUB-A535 topical analgesic in Canada and other international markets.  We also sell WATERPIK water flossers and showerheads in Australia, Canada, Germany, France, the United Kingdom, Mexico and in other international markets.


6

 

Specialty Products Division

Our SPD segment focuses on sales to businesses and participates in three product areas: Animal and Food Production, Specialty Chemicals and Specialty Cleaners, and accounted for approximately 6% of our consolidated net sales in 2020.  

Animal and Food Production Products

Since the ARM & HAMMER Animal and Food Production business began in 1972, with its launch of ARM & HAMMER baking soda as a feed additive to help dairy cows produce more milk, we have built a leading portfolio of nutritional supplements designed to help improve the health and productivity of dairy cows.  Today our portfolio of dairy nutritional supplements includes brands such as MEGALAC® rumen bypass fat– a supplement made from natural oils – which enables cows to maintain energy levels during the period of high milk production, resulting in improved milk yields.  In addition, we market a line of high-quality protein and amino acid products, including BIO-CHLOR® and FERMENTEN®, which are designed to help reduce health issues associated with calving, as well as provide needed protein to ensure proper growth and milk production.

Over the last five years, we have expanded our product offerings to include unique prebiotics and probiotics.  CELMANAX® Refined Functional Carbohydrate is a yeast-based prebiotic that helps ensure a well-functioning gastrointestinal track in dairy cows, beef cattle, poultry and other livestock.  On May 1, 2017, we acquired the Agro Biosciences, Inc. business and we now market the CERTILLUS® family of probiotics products in the poultry, dairy, beef and swine industries.  On March 8, 2018, we acquired Passport Food Safety Solutions, Inc., focused on providing pre- and post-harvest food safety solutions for beef, poultry, and swine primarily for the application to carcasses to reduce food borne pathogens.

Specialty Chemicals

Our specialty chemicals business primarily encompasses the manufacture, marketing and sale of sodium bicarbonate in a range of grades and granulations for use in industrial markets. In industrial markets, sodium bicarbonate is used by other manufacturing companies as a leavening agent for commercial baked goods, as an antacid in pharmaceuticals, as a carbon dioxide release agent in fire extinguishers, as an alkaline agent in swimming pool chemicals, and as a buffer in kidney dialysis.  

We and Occidental Chemical Corporation are equal partners in a joint venture, Armand Products Company, which manufactures and markets potassium carbonate and potassium bicarbonate for sale in domestic and international markets. The potassium-based products are used in a wide variety of applications, including agricultural products, specialty glass and ceramics, and potassium silicates. Armand also manufactures a potassium carbonate-based animal feed additive for sale by us in the dairy industry, described above under “Animal and Food Production Products.”  Armand’s results are included in our Corporate segment.

Specialty Cleaners

We also provide a line of cleaning and deodorizing products for use in commercial and industrial applications such as office buildings, hotels, restaurants and other facilities.

We and Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. (“Safety-Kleen”) are equal partners in a joint venture, ARMAKLEEN®, which has built a specialty cleaning products business based on our technology and Safety-Kleen’s sales and distribution organization. In North America, this joint venture distributes our proprietary product line of aqueous cleaners along with our ARMEX® blast media line, which is designed for the removal of a wide variety of surface coatings.  These results are included in our Corporate segment.  

COMPETITION

We compete in the household and personal care consumer product categories, which are highly innovative categories, characterized by a continuous flow of new products and line extensions, and require significant advertising and promotion. We compete in these categories primarily on the basis of product innovation and performance, brand recognition, price, value and other consumer benefits. Consumer products, particularly laundry and dietary supplements, are subject to significant price competition. As a result, we, from time to time, may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures and to maintain market share.  Product introductions typically involve heavy marketing and trade spending in the year of launch, and we usually are not able to determine whether the new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of the new products or the extension of the product line.

Because of the competitive retail environment, we face pricing pressure from our retail customers and customers selling through other channels, particularly high-volume retail customers including, internet-based retailers, who have increasingly sought to obtain pricing concessions or better trade terms that could reduce our margins. Furthermore, if we are unable to maintain price or trade terms acceptable to our customers, they could increase product purchases from competitors and reduce purchases from us, which would harm our sales and profitability.

7

 

Our competitors in the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International segments include, among others, Procter & Gamble Company (“P&G”), The Clorox Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Nestle Purina PetCare Company, Henkel, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Johnson & Johnson, Ansell Limited, Pfizer Inc., Bayer AG, Alere Inc., NBTY, Inc., Koninklijke Philips N.V., Unilever PLC and Pharmavite LLC. Many of these companies have greater financial resources than we do and have the capacity to outspend us in their attempts to gain market share.  In addition, the growing number of sales channels and business models, such as niche brands, internet-only brands and discounter channels, have increased competition in certain product categories, such as oral care, from less well capitalized competitors.

Competition within our animal and food production and our specialty chemicals product lines is intense. The specialty chemicals business operates in a competitive environment influenced by capacity utilization, customers’ leverage and the impact of raw material and energy costs. Product introductions typically involve introductory educational costs in the year of launch, and we usually are not able to determine whether new products and line extensions will be successful until a period of time has elapsed following the introduction of new products or the extension of the product lines. Our key competitors with respect to our SPD segment are Cargill Incorporated, Lallemand Inc., Solvay Chemicals, Inc., Genesis Alkali and Natural Soda, Inc.  For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."

DISTRIBUTION OF OUR PRODUCTS

Our Consumer Domestic and Consumer International segments products are marketed primarily through a broad distribution platform that includes supermarkets, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, drugstores, convenience stores, home stores, dollar and other discount stores, pet and other specialty stores, and websites and other e-commerce channels, all of which sell our products to consumers. The Consumer Domestic Segment employs a sales force based regionally throughout the U.S. and utilizes the services of independent brokers, who represent our products in the food, mass, pet, dollar, club, and numerous other classes of trade. Our Consumer International segment conducts business through subsidiaries and global export markets. Our subsidiaries employ local sales and marketing teams that manage the retailer and trade relationships while export sales and marketing professionals also manage an extensive distributor network in our global export markets.  Our products are stored in our plants and third-party owned warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at our facilities.

SPD markets sodium bicarbonate and other chemicals to industrial and agricultural customers primarily throughout the U.S. and Canada. Distribution is accomplished through a dedicated sales force supplemented by manufacturers’ representatives and independent distributors. Our products in this segment are stored in our plants and public warehouses and are either delivered by independent trucking companies or picked up by customers at our facilities.

SEASONALITY

 

Our business is generally not seasonal, although the Consumer Domestic and Consumer International segments are affected by sales of SPINBRUSH battery-operated toothbrushes and WATERPIK water flossers (which typically are higher during the fall, in advance of the holiday season), sales of NAIR depilatories and waxes (which typically are higher in the spring and summer months),  sales of VITAFUSION and L’IL CRITTERS dietary supplements and ZICAM cold remedy products (which typically are slightly higher in the fourth quarter of each year, in advance of the cold and flu season and renewed commitments to health), and sales of FLAWLESS (which are typically higher in the second half of the year). In SPD, several of our Animal and Food Production products experience higher demand in warmer weather months creating higher seasonal demand in the second and third quarters of the year.  

RAW MATERIALS AND SOURCES OF SUPPLY

We manufacture sodium bicarbonate for our consumer and specialty products businesses at our plants located at Green River, Wyoming and Old Fort, Ohio. The primary source of soda ash, a basic raw material used in the production of sodium bicarbonate, is the mineral trona, which is found in abundance in southwestern Wyoming near our Green River plant. We have adequate trona reserves under mineral leases to support our sodium bicarbonate requirements for the foreseeable future.

We are a party to a partnership agreement with Tata Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners, which mines and processes trona reserves in Wyoming.  We fulfill a substantial amount of our soda ash requirements through the partnership and related supply and services agreements, enabling us to achieve some of the economies of an integrated business capable of producing sodium bicarbonate and related products from the basic raw material. We also have an agreement for the supply of soda ash from another company. The partnership agreement and other supply agreements between the Tata Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners and us are terminable upon two years notice by either of us. We believe that sufficient alternative sources of soda ash supply are available.

We believe that ample sources of raw materials are available for all our other major products. Detergent chemicals are used in a variety of our products and are available from a number of sources. Bottles, paper products and clay are available from multiple suppliers, although we choose to source most of these materials from single sources under long-term supply agreements in order to gain favorable economies of scale. We also use certifiable sustainable palm oil derivatives in a number of products, including primarily in our rumen bypass fats products. Alternative sources of supply are available in case of the disruption or termination of the supply agreements.

8

 

The cost of raw materials, including surfactants, diesel fuel and oil-based raw and packaging materials used primarily in our consumer businesses, were higher in 2020 relative to 2019, increasing our core commodity costs. Increases in the prices of certain raw materials could materially impact our costs and financial results if we are unable to pass such costs along in the form of price increases to our customers.

We utilize the services of third party contract manufacturers around the world for certain products.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

Our trademarks appear in upper case letters throughout this Annual Report. The majority of our trademarks are registered with either the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or with the trademark offices of many foreign countries. The ARM & HAMMER trademark has been used by us since 1867 and is a valuable asset and important to the successful operation of our business. Our products are sold under many other valuable trademarks held by us, including TROJAN, NAIR, ORAJEL, WATERPIK, FIRST RESPONSE, XTRA, OXICLEAN, SPINBRUSH, BATISTE, SIMPLY SALINE, L’IL CRITTERS, VITAFUSION, FLAWLESS and ZICAM. Our portfolio of trademarks represents substantial value in the businesses using the trademarks.

U.S. patents are currently granted for a term of 20 years from the date the patent application is filed. Although we actively seek and maintain a number of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.

CUSTOMERS AND ORDER BACKLOG

In each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, net sales to our largest customer, Walmart Inc. and its affiliates (“Walmart”), were 23%, 24% and 23% respectively, of our consolidated net sales. No other customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales in the three-year period. The time between receipt of orders and shipment is generally short, and as a result, backlog is not significant.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

General

Some of our products are subject to regulation by one or more U.S. agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the Consumer Product Safety Commission (“CPSC”) and foreign agencies.

FDA regulations govern a variety of matters relating to our products, such as product development, manufacturing, premarket clearance or approval, labeling and distribution. The regulations adopted and standards imposed by the FDA and similar foreign agencies evolve over time and can require us to make changes in our manufacturing processes and quality systems to remain in compliance. These agencies periodically inspect manufacturing and other facilities. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations and standards, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines and penalties, the recall of products and cessation of manufacturing and/or distribution.

In addition, we sell products that are subject to regulation under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, both of which are administered by the EPA.

We are also subject to regulation by the FTC in connection with the content and truthfulness of our labeling, advertising, promotion, trade practices and other matters.  The FTC has instituted numerous enforcement actions against companies for failure to adequately substantiate claims made in advertising or for the use of otherwise false or misleading advertising claims. These enforcement actions have resulted in consent decrees and the payment of civil penalties and/or restitution by the companies involved. Such actions can result in substantial financial penalties and significantly restrict the marketing of our products.

The CPSC has jurisdiction over consumer products, regulates their safety and has authority over recalls.  The CPSC administers the Poison Prevention Packaging Act and has issued regulations requiring special child resistant packaging for certain products, including pharmaceuticals, dietary supplements, and dietary substances, containing certain ingredients (e.g., iron).

Our relationship with certain union employees is regulated by various agencies of the countries, states, provinces and other localities in which we sell our products.

Medical Device Clearance and Approval

To be commercially distributed in the U.S., a medical device must, unless exempt, receive clearance or approval from the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”). For lower risk class II devices, we must generally submit a premarket notification requesting clearance for commercial distribution known as a “510(k)” clearance. Our condoms, lubricants, contact lens solution, wound wash, home pregnancy test kits and WATERPIK professional dental products are regulated as class II devices. Some other low risk devices, including SPINBRUSH and other battery powered toothbrushes, and WATERPIK water flossers, are in class I and are generally exempted

9

 

from the 510(k) requirement. To obtain 510(k) clearance, a device must be determined to be substantially equivalent in intended use and in safety and effectiveness to a benchmark device, or “predicate” that is already legally in commercial distribution. Any modification to a 510(k) cleared device that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a change in its intended use, generally requires a new 510(k) clearance. We may determine that a new 510(k) clearance is not required, but if the FDA disagrees, it may retroactively require a 510(k) clearance and may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance is obtained.

OTC Pharmaceutical

We market over-the-counter (“OTC”) pharmaceutical products, such as toothpaste, antiperspirant, and oral analgesics products, that are also subject to FDA and foreign regulation. Under the U.S. OTC monograph system, selected OTC pharmaceutical products are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the submission and approval of a new drug application. The FDA OTC monographs include well-known ingredients and specify requirements for permitted indications, required warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients and dosage levels. Pharmaceutical products marketed under the OTC monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula and labeling requirements.  Products not in the monograph system can be deemed to be unapproved new drugs and can be forced from the market.  This is particularly the case for homeopathic drug products like certain ZICAM products.  Both the FDA and the FTC have taken the position that homeopathic products are unapproved new drugs.  Regulatory action against these products is deemed unlikely unless the products present an unreasonable safety risk.  ZICAM homeopathic products are not currently perceived to pose any such risk.

All facilities where OTC pharmaceutical products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored or distributed must comply with cGMP regulations and/or regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries where the facilities are located. All of our pharmaceutical products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representations made to customers or to regulatory action against us related to the products made in that facility, such as seizure, injunction or recall. Serious product quality concerns could also result in governmental actions against us that, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, product seizures, loss of certain licenses or other governmental penalties, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We are required to report serious adverse events associated with the use of our OTC pharmaceutical products marketed in the U.S.

We cannot predict whether new legislation regulating our activities will be enacted or what effect any legislation would have on our business.

Medical Device and OTC Pharmaceutical Postmarket Regulation

After a medical device and/or OTC pharmaceutical is commercialized, numerous regulatory requirements apply, including:
				

 
	

•
	

the quality system regulation, which imposes FDA current Good Manufacturing Practice (“cGMP”) requirements governing the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, servicing, labeling, storage, installation, and distribution of all finished medical devices and OTC intended for human use;

 
	

•
	

labeling regulations, including a prohibition on product promotion for unapproved or “off label” uses;

 
	

•
	

the medical device reporting regulation requiring a manufacturer to report to the FDA if its device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur and ongoing post-market surveillance of the product and like-products to continuously evaluate the benefit/risk over the life of the product; and

 
	

•
	

the reports of corrections and removals regulation, which requires a manufacturer to report recalls and field actions to the FDA if initiated to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health.

Food Products

We market baking soda and animal feed products, such as rumen fermentation enhancers and Dietary Cation-Anion Difference (“DCAD”) balancers that are also subject to FDA and foreign regulation. The Food Safety Modernization Act (“FSMA”) regulates food and animal feed products and mandates preventive controls, including hazard analysis, risk controls, supplier qualifications and controls and increased record keeping. FSMA grants the FDA the authority to require mandatory recalls for products under certain conditions. The FDA is currently in the process of establishing rules and guidance to implement the provisions of FSMA. The potential impact of these rules and applicable guidance cannot be determined now.


10

 

Dietary Supplements

The processing, formulation, safety, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, advertising, distribution, importing, selling, and storing of dietary supplements are subject to regulation by one or more federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the EPA, and by various agencies of the states and localities in which our products are sold. The FDCA governs the composition, safety, labeling, manufacturing and marketing of dietary supplements.

It is unlawful to market as a dietary supplement any article that is approved as a new drug or is authorized for investigation as a new drug for which substantial clinical investigations have been instituted and made public, unless that article was first marketed as a dietary supplement or food. The FDA has authority to effectively void that restriction through the issuance of a regulation finding the article lawful. To date, the FDA has not exercised that rulemaking authority for any article.

Dietary ingredients that were not marketed in the U.S. before October 15, 1994 must be the subject of a new dietary ingredient notification submitted to the FDA at least 75 days before the initial marketing, unless the ingredient has been present in the food supply as an article used for food without being chemically altered. The notification must provide evidence of a history of use or other evidence establishing that use of the dietary ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe. The FDA may determine that notification does not provide an adequate basis to conclude that a new ingredient is reasonably expected to be safe, which could effectively prevent the marketing of the ingredient. In August of 2016, the FDA issued draft guidance governing notification of new dietary ingredients.  Although the draft guidance was issued for public comment and not for implementation, it is a strong indication of the FDA’s current thinking on the topics discussed in the guidance, including the FDA’s approach to enforcement. If the FDA enforces the applicable statutes and regulations in accord with the draft guidance, that could effectively change the status of dietary ingredients that the industry has marketed as “old” dietary ingredients to “new” dietary ingredients and may require submission of a new dietary ingredient notification.

A company that uses a statement of nutritional support in labeling must possess information substantiating that the statement is truthful and not misleading.  If the FDA determines that a particular statement of nutritional support is an unacceptable drug claim or an unauthorized version of a health claim, or if the FDA determines that a particular claim is not adequately supported by existing scientific evidence or is otherwise false or misleading, the claim could not be used and any product bearing the claim could be subject to regulatory action.

The FDA’s cGMP regulations govern the manufacturing, packaging, labeling and holding operations of dietary supplement manufacturers. As with OTC products, the FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that our dietary supplement facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations. The failure of a facility to be in compliance may lead to a breach of representation made to consumers or to regulatory action against us related to the products made in that facility, seizure, injunction or recall. There is considerable uncertainty with respect to the FDA’s interpretation and implementation of the cGMP regulations. The failure of a manufacturing facility to comply with the cGMP regulations may render products manufactured in that facility adulterated and subjects those products and the manufacturer to a variety of potential FDA enforcement actions. The manufacturer, packer, or distributor of a dietary supplement marketed in the U.S. whose name appears on the label of the supplement is required to report serious adverse events associated with the use of that supplement to the FDA.

Additional legislation may be introduced which, if passed, would impose substantial new regulatory requirements on dietary supplements. The effect of additional domestic or international governmental legislation, regulations, or administrative orders, if and when promulgated, cannot be determined. New legislation or regulations may require the reformulation of certain products to meet new standards and require the recall or discontinuance of certain products not capable of reformulation.  

HUMAN CAPITAL

Overview

We take great pride in fostering an enduring culture of “doing well by doing good.” By having the opportunity to make meaningful contributions to society, each of our employees can help create a stronger, more resilient company while contributing to a better world. In their everyday work, employees embody our core values of integrity, quality, commitment and innovation, and in doing so, directly contribute to our long-standing character and reputation.

Safety and Wellness

Employee safety remains our top priority. We develop and administer company-wide policies to ensure the safety of each team member and compliance with OSHA standards. In 2020, we implemented COVID-19 protocols across all locations in response to the pandemic, to ensure both the safety of our employees and compliance with federal and local requirement and guidelines.


11

 

Our Employees

As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 5,100 global employees, an increase of approximately 300 compared to December 31, 2019.  The increase is primarily due to increased staffing at our global manufacturing plants. Approximately 87% of our workforce is located in the Americas, 10% in Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and 3% in the Asia-Pacific region. About 50% of our employees are salaried and about 50% are paid hourly wages. During fiscal 2020, our turnover rate was approximately 14.9%.  Our revenue per employee in fiscal 2020 was approximately $958,000.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We embrace the diversity of our employees and believe that a diverse workforce reflective of our consumer base fosters innovation and cultivates an environment filled with unique perspectives. As a result, diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI”) are critical to help us meet the needs of our customers and consumers around the world. As of December 31, 2020, females represented 40.6% of our global workforce. We strive to cultivate a culture and processes that support and enhance our ability to recruit, develop and retain diverse talent at every level.

We have established a Diversity & Inclusion Council that provides strategic direction, guidance and advocacy for our DEI initiatives which is led by our Chief Executive Officer and our Director, Diversity & Inclusion and includes diverse employees at every level from around the world. Our Board of Directors, acting principally through its Compensation & Organization Committee, oversees our DEI efforts.

Hiring, Development and Retention

Our talent strategy is focused on attracting the best talent and recognizing and rewarding performance, while continually developing, engaging and retaining our talented employees.

We invest resources in professional development and growth as a means of improving employee performance and improving retention. This includes our bi-annual “LEAP” (Leadership Empowerment Achievement Program), which is aimed at continuous learning, professional training and development opportunities, targeted leadership development courses for new and existing leaders of different levels of seniority, tuition reimbursement, and job specific programs for our employees.  

Compensation and Benefits

As part of our overall effort to attract, develop and retain talented employees, our compensation programs are designed to align the compensation of our employees with our and their performance, and to provide the proper incentives to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve superior results. Moreover, our policies and procedures are designed to ensure compensation is fair for employees of the same job, at the same level, location and performance. These include utilizing pay grades for appropriate job groupings, making pay decisions based on relevant factors, such as education, experience, and performance, and subjecting pay decisions to higher levels of leadership and Human Resources review to ensure those decisions are fair, equitable and align with our equal employment opportunity policies and objectives.

Employees are eligible for health insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental, vision, hospital indemnity, accident, critical illness, and disability insurance, life insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, reproductive rights coverage, and identity theft insurance.

 

Communities

We encourage our employees to become involved in their communities, and in 2020, our Employee Giving Fund supported our communities by providing $1.2 million to 205 deserving organizations through annual grants, disaster relief, and other monetary support.  Employees purchased back-to-school supplies online to support disadvantaged youth, donated clothes and non-perishable items for clothing and food drives and provided supplies for a summer camp and holiday dinner for families in need.  In addition, the Company has contributed approximately $4.8 million to our communities, which includes the retail value of product donations, delivering masks and hand sanitizers to hospitals where we live, donating to local food banks, and supporting local food establishments with gift certificates.

 

 


12

 

PUBLIC INFORMATION

We maintain a website at www.churchdwight.com and on the “Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings” page of reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”). Also available on the “Investors-Corporate Governance” page on our website are our Corporate Governance Guidelines, charters for the Audit, Compensation & Organization and Governance & Nominating Committees of our Board of Directors (the “Board”), our Code of Conduct and our Proxy Statement. We also publish a Sustainability Report that summarizes our business and corporate responsibility commitments and accomplishments including those related to our environmental, social, and governance performance.  For more information regarding our sustainability and ESG initiatives please see the “Responsibility” page on our website and the discussion under the capital “Sustainability and Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”)” included above.  Each of the foregoing is also available in print free of charge and may be obtained upon written request to: Church & Dwight Co., Inc., 500 Charles Ewing Boulevard, Ewing, New Jersey 08628, attention: Secretary. The information presented on our website is not a part of this Annual Report and the reference to our website is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.  
