Overview
C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (“C.H. Robinson,” “the company,” “we,” “us,” or “our”) is one of the largest global logistics companies in the world with consolidated total revenues of $16.2 billion in 2020. Our mission is to improve the world's supply chains through our people, processes, and technology by delivering exceptional value to our customers and suppliers. We provide freight transportation services and logistics solutions to companies of all sizes in a wide variety of industries. During 2020, we handled approximately 19 million shipments and worked with approximately 105,000 customers. We operate through a network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America. We offer a global suite of services using tailored, market-leading technology built by and for supply chain experts. Our global network of supply chain experts work with our customers to drive better supply chain outcomes by leveraging our experience, data, technology, and scale.
As a global logistics platform, we enter into contractual relationships with a wide variety of transportation companies and utilize those relationships to efficiently and cost-effectively arrange the transport of our customers’ freight. We utilized approximately 73,000 contracted transportation companies around the world, including contracted motor carriers, railroads (primarily intermodal service providers), and ocean and air carriers in 2020. Depending on the needs of our customers and their supply chain requirements, we select and hire the appropriate mode of transportation for each shipment. Our model enables us to be flexible and provide solutions that optimize service for our customers. As an integral part of our transportation services, we may also provide a wide range of value-added logistics services, such as freight consolidation, customs brokerage, supply chain consulting and analysis, optimization, and reporting. Most of our global network operates on a single global technology platform called Navisphere® (“Navisphere”) that is used to match customer needs with supplier capabilities, to collaborate with other offices, and to utilize centralized support resources to complete all facets of the transaction.
In addition to transportation and logistics services, we provide sourcing services under the trade name Robinson Fresh® (“Robinson Fresh”). Our sourcing services consist primarily of the buying, selling, and/or marketing of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other value-added perishable items. This was our original business when we were founded in 1905. The foundation for much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and temperature controlled commodities. We supply fresh produce through a network of independent produce growers and suppliers. Our customers include grocery retailers, restaurants, foodservice distributors, and produce wholesalers. In many cases, we also arrange the logistics and transportation of the products we sell and provide related supply chain services, such as replenishment, category management, and managed procurement services. We have developed proprietary brands of produce and have exclusive licensing agreements to distribute fresh and value-added produce under recognized consumer brand names. The produce for these brands is sourced through a preferred grower network and packed to order through contract packing agreements. We have instituted quality assurance and monitoring procedures with each of these preferred growers.
Segment information. We have two reportable segments: North American Surface Transportation (“NAST”) and Global Forwarding with our remaining operating segments reported as All Other and Corporate. The All Other and Corporate segment includes Robinson Fresh, Managed Services, Other Surface Transportation outside of North America, and other miscellaneous revenues and unallocated corporate expenses. See additional disclosure in Note 9, Segment Reporting, to our consolidated financial statements.
NAST provides transportation and logistics services across North America through a network of offices in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. The primary services provided by NAST are truckload and less than truckload (“LTL”) transportation services.
Global Forwarding provides transportation and logistics services through an international network of offices in North America, Europe, Asia, Oceania, and South America; and also contracts with independent agents worldwide. The primary services provided by Global Forwarding include ocean freight services, air freight services, and customs brokerage.
Robinson Fresh provides sourcing services that primarily include the buying, selling, and marketing of fresh fruits, vegetables, and other value-added perishable items. Robinson Fresh sources products from around the world.
Managed Services is primarily comprised of our TMC division, which offers Managed TMS®. Managed TMS combines the use of Navisphere, logistics process expertise, and consulting services in relation to the use of motor carriers chosen by our customers. Customers can access Navisphere, logistics experts, and supply chain engineers to manage their day-to-day operations and optimize supply chain performance.
3
Table of Content
Other Surface Transportation revenues are primarily earned by our Europe Surface Transportation operating segment. Europe Surface Transportation provides transportation and logistics services including truckload and groupage services across Europe.
Sales
Transportation and Logistics Services
C.H. Robinson provides freight transportation and related logistics and supply chain services. Our services range from commitments on a specific shipment to much more comprehensive and integrated relationships. We execute these service commitments by investing in and retaining talented employees, developing innovative proprietary systems and processes, and utilizing a network of contracted transportation providers, including, but not limited to, contracted motor carriers, railroads, and ocean and air carriers. We make a profit driven by the value we provide our customers and the resulting difference between what we charge to our customers for the totality of services provided to them and what we pay to the transportation providers to handle or transport the freight.
We provide the following transportation and logistics services:
•Truckload: Through our contracts with motor carriers, we have access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. We connect our customers with contracted motor carriers that specialize in their transportation lanes and product types, and we help contracted motor carriers optimize the usage of their equipment.
•LTL: LTL transportation involves the shipment of single or multiple pallets of freight. We primarily focus on shipments of a single pallet or larger, although we handle any size shipment. Through our contracts with motor carriers and use of Navisphere, we consolidate freight and freight information to provide our customers with a single source of information on their freight. In many instances, we consolidate partial shipments for several customers into full truckloads.
•Ocean: As a licensed Non-Vessel Ocean Common Carrier (“NVOCC”) and freight forwarder, we consolidate shipments, determine routing, select ocean carriers, contract for ocean shipments, and/or provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments.
•Air: As a certified Indirect Air Carrier (“IAC”) and freight forwarder, we organize air shipments and provide door-to-door service.
•Customs: Our customs brokers are licensed and regulated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other authoritative governmental agencies to assist importers and exporters in meeting regulatory and operational requirements governing imports and exports.
•Other Logistics Services: We provide intermodal transportation service, which is the shipment of freight in trailers or containers by a combination of truck and rail. In addition, we provide fee-based Managed Services, warehousing services, small parcel, and other services.
Customers communicate their freight needs, typically on an order-by-order basis, to the C.H. Robinson team responsible for their account. The team ensures that all necessary information regarding each shipment is available in Navisphere. This information is received electronically by Navisphere from the customers' system, entered by our employees into Navisphere, or by the customer through our web tools. We utilize the information from Navisphere and other available sources to select the best contracted carrier based upon factors such as their service score, equipment availability, freight rates, and other relevant factors.
Once the contracted carrier is selected, we receive the contracted carrier’s commitment to provide the transportation. During the time when a shipment is executed, we connect frequently, either electronically or manually, with the contracted carrier to track the status of the shipment to meet the unique needs of our customers.
For most of our transportation and logistics services, we are a service provider. By accepting the customer’s order, we accept certain responsibilities for transportation of the shipment from origin to destination. The carrier’s contract is with us, not the customer, and we are responsible for prompt payment of freight charges. In the cases where we have agreed to pay for claims for damage to freight while in transit, we pursue reimbursement from the contracted carrier for the claims. In our Managed Services business, we are acting as the shipper’s agent. In those cases, the carrier’s contract is typically with the customer, and we collect a fee for our services.
4
Table of Content
As a result of our logistics capabilities, our technology, and global suite of services, some of our customers have us handle all, or a substantial portion, of their freight transportation requirements. Our employees price our services to provide a profit to us for the totality of services performed for the customer. Our services to the customer may be priced on a spot market, or transactional basis, or prearranged contractual rates. Most of our contractual rate commitments are for one year or less and allow for renegotiation. As is typical in the transportation industry, most of these contracts do not include specific volume commitments. When we enter into prearranged rate agreements for truckload services with our customers, we usually have fuel surcharge agreements that allow for fuel to primarily act as a pass-through cost, in addition to the underlying line-haul portion of the rate.
We purchase most of our truckload services from our contracted truckload carriers on a spot market, or transactional basis, even when we are working with the customer on a contractual basis. In a small number of cases, we may get advance commitments from one or more contracted motor carriers to transport contracted shipments for the length of our customer contract. In those cases, where we have prearranged rates with contracted motor carriers, there is a calculated fuel surcharge based on a mutually agreed-upon formula.
While providing day-to-day transportation services, our employees often identify opportunities for additional logistics services as they become more familiar with our customers’ daily operations and the nuances of our customers’ supply chains. We offer a wide range of logistics services on a global basis that reduce or eliminate supply chain inefficiencies. We analyze customers’ current transportation rate structures, modes of shipping, and carrier selection. We identify opportunities to consolidate shipments for cost savings. We suggest ways to improve operating and shipping procedures and manage claims. We help customers minimize storage through crossdocking and other flow-through operations. Many of these services are provided in connection with providing the transportation services based on the nature of the customer relationship. In addition to these transportation services, we may provide additional logistics services, such as contract warehousing, consulting, transportation management, and other services, for which we are usually paid separately.
We have broadened our relationship with many of our customers through an emphasis on integrated logistics solutions resulting in us managing a greater portion of their supply chains. We often serve our customers through specially created teams and through multiple locations. Our transportation and logistics services are provided to numerous international customers through our worldwide network.
Transportation services accounted for approximately 96 percent of adjusted gross profit in 2020, 2019, and 2018. Adjusted gross profit is a non-GAAP financial measure calculated as total revenues less the total of purchased transportation and related services and the cost of purchased products sourced for resale. For additional information, see Item 7 of Part II, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The table below shows our adjusted gross profit by transportation mode, for the years ended December 31 (in thousands):
																													
	2020		2019		2018		2017		2016
Truckload	$	1,071,873 			$	1,348,878 			$	1,445,916 			$	1,229,999 			$	1,257,191 	
LTL	457,290 			477,348 			471,275 			407,012 			381,817 	
Ocean	350,094 			308,367 			312,952 			290,630 			244,276 	
Air	151,443 			106,777 			120,540 			100,761 			82,167 	
Customs	87,095 			91,828 			88,515 			70,952 			50,509 	
Other Logistics Services	195,159 			149,664 			154,546 			146,262 			138,851 	
Total	$	2,312,954 			$	2,482,862 			$	2,593,744 			$	2,245,616 			$	2,154,811 	

Sourcing
Since we were founded in 1905, we have been in the business of sourcing fresh produce. Much of our logistics expertise can be traced to our significant experience in handling produce and other perishable commodities. Because of its perishable nature, produce must be rapidly packaged; carefully transported within tight timetables, usually in temperature controlled equipment; and quickly distributed to replenish high-turnover inventories maintained by our customers. In many instances, we consolidate an individual customer’s produce orders into truckload quantities at the point of origin and arrange for transportation of the truckloads, often to multiple destinations. Our sourcing customer base includes grocery retailers, restaurants, foodservice distributors, and produce wholesalers.
Our sourcing services include inventory forecasting and replenishment, brand management, and category development services. We have various national and regional branded produce programs, including both proprietary brands and nationally licensed
5
Table of Content
brands. These programs contain a wide variety of high quality, fresh bulk, and value added fruits and vegetables. These brands have expanded our market presence and relationships with many of our retail customers. We have also instituted quality assurance and monitoring programs as part of our branded and preferred grower programs. Sourcing accounted for approximately four percent of our adjusted gross profit in 2020, 2019, and 2018. 
Customer Relationships
We work to establish long-term relationships with our customers and to increase the amount of business done with each customer by providing them with a full range of logistics services and people they can rely on. During 2020, we served approximately 105,000 customers worldwide, ranging from Fortune 100 companies to small businesses in a wide variety of industries. During 2020, our largest customer accounted for approximately one percent of total revenues. In recent years, we have grown by adding new customers and by increasing our volumes with, and providing more services to, our existing customers.
We seek additional business from existing customers and pursue new customers based on our knowledge of the marketplace, our unique information advantage, and the range of logistics services that we can provide. We believe that our account management disciplines, expertise, and technology built by and for supply chain experts, enable our employees to better serve our customers by combining a broad knowledge of logistics and market conditions with a deep, data-driven, understanding of the specific supply chain issues facing individual customers and certain vertical industries. With the guidance of our executive and shared services teams, offices are given significant latitude to pursue opportunities and to commit our resources to serve our customers.
Markets and Resources
Competition
The transportation services industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete against many logistics companies, including technology-based service companies, trucking companies, property freight brokers, carriers offering logistics services, NVOCCs, IACs, and freight forwarders. We also buy from and sell transportation services to companies that compete with us.
In our sourcing business, we compete with produce brokers, produce growers, produce marketing companies, produce wholesalers, and foodservice buying groups. We also buy from and sell produce to companies that compete with us.
We often compete with respect to price, scope of services, or a combination thereof, but believe that our most significant competitive advantages are:
•People: Our knowledgeable, dedicated, and empowered people act as an extension of our customers’ teams – logistics experts they can rely on, to innovate and execute their supply chain strategies;
•Technology: Navisphere, our proprietary technology, provides flexibility, global visibility, customized solutions, easy integration, broad connectivity, and advanced security;
•Process: Proven processes and solutions combine strategy with practical experience for customized action plans that succeed in the real world;
•Network: Our combination of global capability, regional and local expertise, and scale gives our customers a strategic advantage in supply chain execution;
•Relationships: A large number of unique, strong relationships provide global connections and valuable market knowledge;
•Global Suite of Services: A wide selection of services and products help provide our customers with consistent capacity and service levels;
•Scale: Our customers leverage our industry-leading capacity, broad procurement options, global data insights, and substantial shipment volumes for better efficiency, service, and marketplace advantages;
•Information: Our global suite of services, unparalleled quantity of relationships, and scale combine to provide us with an industry leading data estate. We have one of the largest datasets of shipments, routings, and carriers in the world. We use our industry leading data and data analysts to drive smarter solutions for our customers; and
6
Table of Content
•Stability: Our customers and our contract carriers rely on us to support critical elements of their business. Our financial strength, discipline, and consistent track record of success are a key foundation of our ability to sustainably meet their needs.
Proprietary Information Technology and Intellectual Property
Our technology and software platform is essential to service our customers and contracted carriers, and to manage our business. In 2020, we executed approximately 19 million shipments for approximately 105,000 customers with more than 73,000 contracted carriers.
Navisphere and our other operational systems help our employees service customer orders, select the optimal mode of transportation, build and consolidate shipments, identify appropriate carriers, and manage exceptions, all based on customer-specific service parameters. Our industry-leading data estate provides our organization with the necessary business intelligence to allow for the necessary decision support in all areas of our business.
We have committed to investing $1 billion in technology innovation over a five-year period to bring the value of technology, data, and analytics to our customers, help solve their most complex logistics challenges and drive the industry forward. With more than 1,000 data scientists, engineers and developers, we are continuing to invest in global talent in this critical area, building the next generation of tools and processes that will change how supply chains function.
C.H. Robinson® Labs™ is part of this commitment. It is an innovation incubator where the next big ideas in logistics and supply chain are created, tested, and scaled to drive smarter solutions for our customers and contracted carriers. The Robinson Labs team collaborates with customers to create personalized solutions for shippers’ challenges with the industry’s premier technology that is built by and for supply chain experts.
Our operations primarily use Navisphere, a global, multimodal transportation management system that allows customers to communicate worldwide with parties in their supply chain across languages, currencies, and continents. Navisphere offers sophisticated business analytics to help improve supply chain performance and meet increasing customer demands.
The Navisphere Vision® product allows our customers to see their freight across all modes and services globally in a single view. Details of shipment contents, status of shipments based on milestones, disruptions to shipments, and resulting estimated time of arrival adjustment using artificial intelligence are provided for the customer to manage their supply chain exceptions. Collaboration, intelligent notifications, and performance scorecarding allow customers to manage their supply chain and identify inefficiencies.
The Navisphere Carrier platform provides contracted motor carriers access to the functionality necessary to manage their relationship with C.H. Robinson. Contracted motor carriers can access available freight, provide online status updates, keep track of receivables, and upload scanned documentation. Many of our contracted motor carriers’ favorite features from Navisphere Carrier are also available through our Navisphere Carrier mobile application available for Android and iOS mobile operating systems.
The Navisphere Driver mobile application provides contracted motor carriers’ drivers with load status automation capabilities. Drivers can elect to allow the application to automate location services and updates while in transit. Drivers can also capture and upload bill of lading documentation to initiate payment processes. The track and trace capabilities give our systems and customers frequent load status information.
Freightquote by C.H. Robinson is a web-based, mobile-responsive offering designed to streamline the shipping process for small business customers allowing the booking of freight without any shipping knowledge or expertise. Freightquote's small business customers can go online with their phone, tablet, or computer to book their LTL or truckload freight, track shipments, get proactive notifications, and pay for transportation services with a credit card.
We rely on a combination of cyber security, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology. Additionally, we have numerous registered trademarks, trade names, and logos in the United States and international locations.
Relationships with Transportation Providers
We continually work on establishing contractual relationships with qualified transportation providers that also meet both ours and our customers’ service requirements to provide dependable services, favorable pricing, and available capacity during periods when demand for transportation equipment is greater than the supply. We own very little transportation equipment and do not employ the people directly involved with the delivery of our customers’ freight, so these relationships are critical to our success.
7
Table of Content
In 2020, we worked with approximately 73,000 transportation providers worldwide, of which the vast majority are contracted motor carriers. To strengthen and maintain our relationships with contracted motor carriers, our employees regularly communicate with them and try to assist them by increasing their equipment utilization, reducing their empty miles, and repositioning their equipment. To make it easier for contracted motor carriers to work with us, we have a policy of contracted motor carrier invoice payment upon receipt of proof of delivery in accordance with our standard payment terms. For those contracted motor carriers that would like a faster payment, we also offer expedited payment upon receipt of proof of delivery in exchange for a discount, along with offering in-trip cash advances.
Contracted motor carriers provide access to dry vans, temperature controlled vans, flatbeds, and bulk capacity. These contracted motor carriers are of all sizes, including owner-operators of a single truck, small and mid-size fleets, private fleets, and the largest national trucking companies. Consequently, we are not dependent on any one contracted motor carrier. Our largest truck transportation provider was less than two percent of our total cost of transportation in 2020. Contracted motor carriers that had fewer than 100 tractors transported approximately 78 percent of our truckload shipments in 2020. Every United States and Canadian motor carrier which we do business with is required to execute a contract that establishes that the motor carrier is acting as an independent contractor. At the time the contract is executed, and thereafter, through subscriptions with a third party service, we confirm that each United States contracted motor carrier is properly licensed and insured, has the necessary federally-issued authority to provide transportation services, and can provide the necessary level of service on a dependable basis. Our motor carrier contracts require that the contracted motor carrier issue invoices only to and accept payment solely from us for the shipments that they transport under their contract with us and allow us to withhold payment to satisfy previous claims or shortages. Our standard contracts do not include volume commitments, and typically the initial contract rate is modified each time we confirm an individual shipment with a contracted motor carrier.
In our NVOCC ocean transportation business, we have contracts with most of the major ocean carriers, which support a variety of service and rate needs for our customers. We negotiate annual contracts that establish the predetermined rates we agree to pay the ocean carriers. The rates are negotiated based on expected volumes from our customers in specific trade lanes. These contracts are often amended throughout the year to reflect changes in market conditions for our business, such as additional trade lanes.
We operate both as a consolidator and as a transactional IAC in the United States and internationally. We select air carriers and provide for local pickup and delivery of shipments. We execute our air freight services through our relationships with air carriers, through charter services, block space agreements, capacity space agreements, and transactional spot market negotiations. Through charter services, we contract part or all of an airplane to meet customer requirements. Our block space agreements and capacity space agreements are contracts for a defined time period. The contracts include fixed allocations for predetermined flights at agreed upon rates that are reviewed periodically throughout the year. The transactional negotiations afford us the ability to capture excess capacity at prevailing market rates for a specific shipment.
Seasonality
Our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends as a result of, or influenced by, numerous factors, including national holidays, weather patterns, consumer demand, economic conditions, and other similar and subtle forces. Although seasonal changes in the transportation industry have not had a significant impact on our cash flow or results of operations, we expect this trend to continue and we cannot guarantee that it will not adversely impact us in the future.
Government Regulation
Our operations may be regulated and licensed by various federal, state, and local transportation agencies in the United States and similar governmental agencies in foreign countries in which we operate.
We are subject to licensing and regulation as a property freight broker and are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) to arrange for the transportation of property by motor vehicle. The DOT prescribes qualifications for acting in this capacity, including certain surety bonding requirements. We are also subject to regulation by the Federal Maritime Commission (“FMC”) as an ocean freight forwarder and a NVOCC and we maintain separate bonds and licenses for each. We operate as a Department of Homeland Security certified IAC, providing air freight services, subject to commercial standards set forth by the International Air Transport Association (“IATA”) and federal regulations issued by the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”). We provide customs brokerage services as a customs broker under a license issued by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and other authoritative governmental agencies. We also have and maintain other licenses as required by law.
Although Congress enacted legislation in 1994 that substantially preempts the authority of states to exercise economic regulation of motor carriers and brokers of freight, some intrastate shipments for which we arrange transportation may be subject to additional licensing, registration, or permit requirements. We contractually require and rely on the motor carrier
8
Table of Content
transporting the shipment to ensure compliance with these types of requirements. We, along with the contracted motor carriers that we rely on in arranging transportation services for our customers, are also subject to a variety of federal and state safety and environmental regulations. Although compliance with the regulations governing licensees in these areas has not had a materially adverse effect on our operations or financial condition in the past, there can be no assurance that such regulations or changes thereto will not adversely impact our operations in the future. Violation of these regulations could also subject us to fines, as well as increased claims liability.
We buy and sell fresh produce under licenses issued by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) as required by the Perishable Agricultural Commodities Act (“PACA”). Other sourcing and distribution activities may be subject to various federal and state food and drug statutes and regulations.
We are subject to a variety of other U.S. and foreign laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption statutes.
Human Capital
As of December 31, 2020, we had a total of 14,888 employees, 12,977 of whom are network employees, as presented below. Our remaining employees centrally serve our network of offices in areas such as finance, information technology and software engineering, data science and analysis, legal, marketing, and human resources. The following table illustrates our employees by global region:
																																						
		North America		Europe		Asia		Oceania		South America		Total
Network employees		9,049 			1,600 			1,786 			332 			210 			12,977 	
Shared services employees		1,596 			82 			168 			32 			33 			1,911 	
Total Employees		10,645 			1,682 			1,954 			364 			243 			14,888 	
Contractors		610		20		210		36		24		900 	

Talent Strategies
Our talented, empowered, and engaged employees continue to be one of our primary competitive advantages. They are logistics experts and problem solvers, and act as an extension of our customers' teams. Our customers and contract carriers consistently cite our people and the strong, value added relationships with our account teams as a primary reason they choose to work with us. Our innovative talent strategies support the development and empowerment of our people, enabling the success of our customers and contract carriers and helping drive our growth strategy.
Working with their regional or divisional leaders, each team makes hiring decisions, based on balancing business needs with personnel investment and meeting targeted productivity and profitability goals. Our continued success depends in large part on our ability to hire strong, diverse talent and retain and develop successful employees. Our employee turnover ratio, which is calculated as the number of employees who departed the Company in the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, divided by the average number of employees in the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, was 18 percent. On average, our managers lead a team of six direct reports. Because the quality of our employees is essential to our success, we are highly selective in our recruiting and hiring. To support our hiring processes, we have a corporate talent acquisition team that develops a robust, diverse pipeline of qualified candidates that managers can draw from.
Our employees go through onboarding that emphasizes development of the skills necessary to become productive employees, including technology training on our proprietary systems and our customer service philosophy. Centralized training is followed by ongoing, on-the-job training and regular performance and career development reviews. Ongoing employee development is an important component of our talent strategy; therefore, our employees and managers have performance conversations on a regular basis, at least twice per year. In 2020, approximately 97 percent of our workforce received regular performance and career development reviews. In addition, on an annual basis we conduct an employee engagement survey to assess employee engagement, which is measured by willingness to recommend a company, intent to stay, pride, and the experience of intrinsic motivation on the job. The 2020 survey indicated a positive engagement score of 81 percent, which was consistent with benchmark companies.

9
Table of Content
Our market-competitive compensation programs help drive performance and reward success. They include performance-based metrics and cash incentives directly tied to productivity, the achievement of specific performance goals, and the financial performance of the team or the organization overall. A significant portion of management compensation is dependent on the growth and profitability of their team. Senior managers are paid a performance-based bonus, which is measured based on balanced growth in top and bottom line performance of the team they represent for that calendar year. The percentage they can potentially earn is predetermined in an annual bonus contract and is based on their role and the overall success of the team.
A majority of our managers and certain other employees who have significant responsibilities are eligible to receive equity awards because we believe these awards are an effective tool for creating long-term ownership and alignment between employees and our shareholders. Refer to Note 6, Capital Stock and Stock Award Plans, for further discussion related to equity award plan design.
Employees benefit both through the growth and profitability of their team and by achieving individual goals. They are motivated by the opportunity to advance in a variety of career paths, including management, corporate sales, and customer and carrier account management.
Network Employees
We have defined job families and roles to enable our employees to specialize in particular areas of the business and build their expertise. We believe this enables them to perform at a higher level and create more value for our customers and contract carriers. Some of our employees choose to stay in that area of specialization, while others progress across multiple areas of the business to build a broader base of experience. We believe our strategy of having multiple career path opportunities enables our employees to develop to their highest potential and choose a career plan that fits their goals and aspirations. We also believe this drives higher engagement and retention.
Depending on their role, our employees are responsible for developing new business, negotiating and pricing services, receiving and processing service requests from customers, and negotiating with carriers to provide the transportation requested. In addition to routine transportation, employees are often called upon to handle customers’ unusual, seasonal, and emergency needs. We have developed industry leading technology and complex proprietary pricing algorithms based on our information advantage that guide our employees regarding establishing competitive pricing with our customers and contracted motor carriers based on the unique characteristics of each customer's shipment. Employees typically rely on expertise in other offices when contracting and executing truckload, LTL, ocean, and air shipments. Multiple network offices often also work together to service larger, global accounts where the expertise and resources of more than one office are required to meet the customer’s needs. Their efforts are usually coordinated by one lead office on the account.
Employees are generally specialized into roles on new customer sales opportunities, account managing existing customer relationships, managing contracted carrier/supplier relationships for procuring capacity, or ongoing service and operations of shipments. Customer sales opportunities are identified through our internal database, referrals from current customers, leads generated by people through knowledge of their local and regional markets, company marketing efforts, and access to transportation industry shipment databases. Employees who are responsible for recruiting new motor carriers refer them to our centralized carrier services group to confirm they are properly licensed and insured, have acceptable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration issued safety ratings, and will enter into a contract for transportation services with C.H. Robinson.
Shared Services. Our network offices are supported by our shared and centralized services. Approximately 13 percent of our employees provide shared services in centralized centers. Approximately 55 percent of these shared services employees are technology personnel who enhance and maintain our proprietary operating system software and our technology infrastructure.
Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”)

We integrate ESG into our business, driven by our “EDGE” values of evolving constantly, delivering excellence, growing together, and embracing integrity, to help to ensure we deliver value to our customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders, and communities. We have conducted an assessment to identify our priority ESG topics. The results of this assessment and more information is available in our sustainability report. We incorporate these principles and priorities into our business in a number of ways, including:

•Environmental Stewardship: By leveraging our scope, size, and scale, we work with customers to help optimize their supply chain, eliminate empty miles on the road, and reduce their carbon footprint. C.H. Robinson has been an active member of SmartWay®, a transportation program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency since 2005. In 2019, we announced a goal to reduce our Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity 40 percent by 2025. We report according to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures via the Carbon Disclosure Project Climate Change survey. Additionally, we provide products and services to help our customers meet their ESG goals.
10
Table of Content

•Diversity and Inclusion (“D&I”): We work to create a culture of belonging, core to our values, that embraces the unique experiences and diverse backgrounds of our people in order to create a stronger, more innovative, and successful team. This commitment is demonstrated by integrating D&I initiatives into our talent strategies and across our business. Last year, we launched inclusivity training for all employees, created Employee Resource Groups, enhanced our talent acquisition processes, and further integrated D&I into leadership development and succession strategy. We evaluate our success in attracting and retaining a high-performing diverse workforce as the percentage of women and minorities to our total workforce in addition to the percentage of women and minorities in a management position to our total management population. These metrics are summarized below as of December 31, 2020:

					
Women in workforce(1)
	47 	%
Management positions held by women(1)
	38 	%
BIPOC in workforce(2)
	25 	%
Management positions held by BIPOC(2)
	17 	%
________________________________ 
(1) Metric is derived from our worldwide population of employees.
(2) Black, Indigenous, and People of Color ("BIPOC"). Metric is derived from our U.S. population of employees.

•Community Engagement: Involvement in our communities and supporting non-profit organizations is a core element of our culture and source of pride and engagement by our employees. Through our company and the C.H. Robinson Foundation, we contributed over $3 million to more than 800 charities operating around the globe in 2020. We proudly support our people, our industry, and our communities through employee match programs, grantmaking, disaster relief efforts, an employee hardship fund, and scholarship programs. In 2020, we focused additional giving on supporting COVID-19 relief efforts. We also support organizations focusing on social and racial equity.

Information about our Executive Officers
The Board of Directors designates the executive officers annually. Below are the names, ages, and positions of the executive officers as of February 19, 2021:
														
Name		
  Age
		Position
Robert C. Biesterfeld, Jr.		45		President and Chief Executive Officer
Ben G. Campbell		55		Chief Legal Officer and Secretary
Michael Castagnetto		44		President of Robinson Fresh
Jeroen Eijsink		48		President of C.H. Robinson Europe
Angela K. Freeman		53		Chief Human Resources and ESG Officer
Jordan T. Kass		48		President of Managed Services
Michael W. Neill		50		Chief Technology Officer
Christopher J. O’Brien		52		Chief Commercial Officer
Mac Pinkerton		47		President of NAST
Michael J. Short		50		President of Global Freight Forwarding
Michael P. Zechmeister		54		Chief Financial Officer

Robert C. Biesterfeld, Jr. was named Chief Executive Officer in May 2019. Prior to becoming CEO, he held the positions of Chief Operating Officer from February 2018 to May 2019, President of NAST from January 2016 to December 2018, Vice President of Truckload from January 2014 to December 2015, Vice President of Sourcing and Temperature Controlled Transportation from January 2013 to December 2014, and General Manager for the U.S. West Sourcing Region for the company’s Robinson Fresh division from 2003 to 2011. He began his career with C.H. Robinson in 1999 in the Corporate Procurement and Distribution Services office. Bob serves on the Board of Directors for the Transportation Intermediaries Association and is trustee of the Winona State University Foundation. Bob graduated from Winona State University with a Bachelor of Arts degree.
11
Table of Content
Ben G. Campbell was named Chief Legal Officer and Secretary in January 2015. Previous positions with the company include Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from January 2009 to December 2014 and Assistant General Counsel from February 2004 to December 2008. Ben joined C.H. Robinson in 2004. Before coming to C.H. Robinson, Ben was a partner at Rider Bennett, LLP, in Minneapolis, MN. Ben holds a Bachelor of Science degree from St. John’s University and a Juris Doctor from William Mitchell College of Law.
Michael Castagnetto was named President of Robinson Fresh in January 2020. Prior executive positions with the company include Vice President, General Manager, and Director of Sourcing from 2013 to 2019. Prior to his executive roles, Michael held various customer facing roles within the company. He began his career with C.H. Robinson through the acquisition of FoodSource, Inc., in 2005. He is a board member of the United Fresh Produce Association and the Pinky Swear Foundation. He holds a Bachelor of Arts from Saint Mary’s College of California.
Jeroen Eijsink was named President of C.H. Robinson Europe in September 2015. Jeroen previously served as Chief Executive Officer of DHL Freight Germany, where he was responsible for the road and rail transport activities for DHL in Germany from March 2013 to August 2015. He also served as Chief Executive Officer of DHL Freight Belgium, Netherlands, and United Kingdom from January 2011 to February 2013 and managing director of DHL Freight United Kingdom and Ireland from May 2006 to December 2010. Prior to joining Deutsche Post DHL, Jeroen held various management positions at Siemens in Germany.
Angela K. Freeman was named Chief Human Resources Officer in January 2015, and in October 2019 also became ESG Officer. Prior to her current role, she served as Vice President of Human Resources from August 2012 to December 2014. Previous positions with C.H. Robinson include Vice President of Investor Relations and Public Affairs from January 2009 to August 2012, and Director of Investor Relations, and Director of Marketing Communications. She also serves as the president of the C.H. Robinson Worldwide Foundation. In addition to her responsibilities at C.H. Robinson, Angie currently serves on the Board of Directors of The Shyft Group, Inc. (Nasdaq: SHYF) and on the Board of the University of North Dakota Alumni Association & Foundation. Prior to joining C.H. Robinson in 1998, Angie was with McDermott/O’Neill & Associates, a Boston-based public affairs firm. Angie holds a Bachelor of Arts degree and a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of North Dakota, and a Master of Science degree from the London School of Economics.
Jordan T. Kass was named President of Managed Services in January 2015. He previously served as Vice President of Management Services from January 2013 to January 2015. Previous positions with C.H. Robinson include Director of the TMC division. Jordan began his career in 1994 at American Backhaulers and subsequently joined C.H. Robinson in 2000 following our acquisition of American Backhaulers. Jordan holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Indiana University.
Michael W. Neill was named Chief Technology Officer in June 2018. Previous positions with the company include IT Director, Application Development from 2010 to 2018; IT Director, Infrastructure and Security from 2005 to 2010; and Software Development Manager from 2002 to 2004. Prior to joining C.H. Robinson in 2002, Mike held IT management positions at ADC Telecommunications and Trans Consolidated Incorporated. Mike also serves as an industry advisory board member to the University of Minnesota, Duluth, Computer Science Department and on the Board of Advisors of AbeTech. Mike holds a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Minnesota, Duluth and a Master of Science from the University of Minnesota.
Christopher J. O’Brien was named Chief Commercial Officer in January 2015. Prior to that, he served as a Senior Vice President from May 2012 to December 2014. He has served as a Vice President since May 2003. Additional previous positions with C.H. Robinson include President of the company’s European division and manager of the Raleigh, North Carolina, office. Christopher joined the company in 1993. He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Alma College in Michigan.
Mac Pinkerton was named President of NAST in January 2019. Prior executive positions with the company include Vice President, Service Lines from July 2017 to December 2018 and Vice President, Transportation from October 2010 to June 2017. Prior to his executive roles, Mac was General Manager in the Mobile, Alabama, and Dallas, Texas, offices. Mac began his career with C.H. Robinson in 1997 as a transportation representative. He holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Mississippi State University.
Michael J. Short was named President of Global Freight Forwarding in May 2015. He joined C.H. Robinson through the acquisition of Phoenix International ("Phoenix") in 2012 and is a 21-year veteran of the global forwarding industry. Prior to being named President, Mike served as Vice President, Global Forwarding - North America. Prior to joining C.H. Robinson, he held a number of roles at Phoenix, including Regional Manager, Sales Manager, and General Manager of the St. Louis office. He graduated from the University of Missouri in 1993 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Business.
Michael P. Zechmeister was named Chief Financial Officer in August 2019. Before coming to C.H. Robinson, Mike served as Chief Financial Officer of United Natural Foods, Inc., a food wholesaler, from 2015 to August 2019. Prior to joining United
12
Table of Content
Natural Foods, Inc., Mike spent 25 years at General Mills, Inc., holding a variety of leadership roles, including Vice President of Finance for the Pillsbury Division, Vice President of Finance for U.S. Retail Sales, and Treasurer. Mike holds a Bachelor of Science in Business degree from the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota and earned a MBA in Finance, Marketing, and Strategy from the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University.
Investor Information
We were reincorporated in Delaware in 1997 as the successor to a business existing, in various legal forms, since 1905. Our corporate office is located at 14701 Charlson Road, Eden Prairie, Minnesota, 55347-5088, and our telephone number is (952) 937-8500. Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website (www.chrobinson.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the material with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Information contained on our website is not part of this report.
Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of Part II of this report, and other documents incorporated by reference, contain certain “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. When used in this Form 10-K and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in our press releases, presentations to securities analysts or investors, in oral statements made by or with the approval of any of our executive officers, the words or phrases “believes,” “may,” “could,” “will,” “expects,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “will likely result,” “estimates,” “projects,” or similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify such forward-looking statements.
Except for the historical information contained in this Form 10-K, the matters set forth in this document may be deemed to be forward-looking statements that represent our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies concerning future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our historical experience or our present expectations, including, but not limited to, such factors such as changes in economic conditions, including uncertain consumer demand; changes in market demand and pressures on the pricing for our services; fuel price increases or decreases, or fuel shortages; competition and growth rates within the global logistics industry; freight levels and increasing costs and availability of truck capacity or alternative means of transporting freight; changes in relationships with existing contracted truck, rail, ocean, and air carriers; changes in our customer base due to possible consolidation among our customers; cyber-security related risks; risks associated with operations outside of the United States; our ability to successfully integrate the operations of acquired companies with our historic operations; risks associated with litigation, including contingent auto liability and insurance coverage; risks related to the elimination of LIBOR; risks associated with the potential impact of changes in government regulations; risks associated with the produce industry, including food safety and contamination issues; the impact of war on the economy; changes to our capital structure; changes due to catastrophic events including pandemics such as COVID-19, and other risks and uncertainties, including those described in Item 1A, Risk Factors. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update these statements in light of subsequent events or developments.
