OVERVIEW
		
Cigna Corporation, together with its subsidiaries (either individually or collectively referred to as “Cigna,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a global health service organization.
								
 	
Our Purpose and Mission
To improve the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve
	 
 	Our Strategy	 
Champions for affordable, predictable, and simple health care
Making it affordable: We build on our leading, differentiated position to lower the total cost of care.
 	
Making it predictable: We take the surprise out of the system and help people make informed health care choices.
	 
 	
Making it simple: We make it easier for the people we serve to get the care they need.
	 
Cigna is a global health services company uniquely capable of driving affordable, predictable, and simple health care, with expansive and deep capabilities that accelerate our strategy to achieve our mission of improving health, well-being and peace of mind. Cigna’s employees are champions for the people we serve and over the past decade, our focus has shifted to helping individuals and families thrive by offering solutions to prevent and better manage health challenges. When sickness or disability do occur, we support our customers by offering broad choices to help them best access high quality, affordable, whole person care. We see three primary ways to help individuals maintain, improve or recover their physical or mental health: 1) behavioral and lifestyle changes – with more than 1,000 health coaches helping individuals set and meet health goals; 2) affordable, effective medication options – with access to our leading pharmacy services improving health and driving affordability; and 3) targeted medical and surgical interventions – with a clear and proven strategy around partnerships and value-based care quality programs, powered by data and analytics and aligned incentives. We maximize use of evidence-based care, while delivering best-in-class service for our customers with acute and chronic conditions through enhanced real-time insights across an expanded platform with industry-leading solutions to support care decisions.
Our portfolio of offerings solves diverse challenges across the health care system. We offer a differentiated set of pharmacy, medical, behavioral, dental and supplemental products and services, primarily through two brands: Cigna and Evernorth. Our capabilities include: 1) a broad portfolio of solutions and services, some of which can be offered on a stand-alone basis; 2) integrated behavioral, medical and pharmacy management solutions; 3) leading specialty pharmacy, clinical and care management expertise; and 4) advanced analytics that help us engage more meaningfully with individuals, plan sponsors we serve and our provider partners.
We put medicine within reach for patients, and help providers improve access to prescription drugs, by making them more affordable.
We work with key stakeholders across the health care system to improve health outcomes and patient satisfaction, increase efficiency in drug distribution and manage costs of the pharmacy benefit.
In 2020 Cigna launched Evernorth, a new health services platform, and renamed the Health Services segment as Evernorth, accordingly. Evernorth brings together our array of health services capabilities, as well as those from partners across the health care system in pharmacy solutions, benefits management solutions, care solutions and intelligence solutions. Innovative products include: Healthy Ways to WorkSM, a broad suite of solutions to help health plans and employers move forward by addressing unique challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic; FamilyPathSM, a comprehensive fertility solution to reduce avoidable costs, provide holistic care coordination and deliver more flexible options for individuals; and inMyndSM, a solution that helps clients and customers better recognize, treat and support mental health conditions.
1

We present the financial results of our businesses in the following segments (see "Executive Overview" section of the MD&A located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a Financial Summary):
Evernorth includes a broad range of coordinated and point solution health services, including pharmacy solutions, benefits management solutions, care solutions and intelligence solutions, which are provided to health plans, employers, government organizations and health care providers.
U.S. Medical includes Cigna’s U.S. Commercial and U.S. Government businesses that provide comprehensive medical and coordinated solutions to clients and customers. U.S. Commercial products and services include medical, pharmacy, behavioral health, dental, vision, health advocacy programs and other products and services for insured and self-insured customers. U.S. Government solutions include Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D plans for seniors, Medicaid plans, and individual health insurance plans both on and off the public exchanges.
International Markets includes supplemental health, life and accident insurance products and health care coverage in our international markets as well as health care benefits to globally mobile employees of multinational organizations.
Group Disability and Other contains the remainder of our business operations, consisting of the following:
•Group Disability and Life provides group long-term and short-term disability, group life, accident, voluntary and specialty insurance products and related services. The sale of this business to New York Life was completed on December 31, 2020. The transaction with New York Life included the sale of our businesses offering group long-term and short-term disability, group life, accident, and specialty insurance products and related services. Our business that offers group voluntary products and services was not sold to New York Life and results of this business will be reported in the U.S. Medical segment beginning in the first quarter of 2021. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and Liquidity section of the MD&A for additional information on the impacts of this sale on our results of operations, liquidity and financial position.
•Corporate-Owned Life Insurance (“COLI”) offers permanent insurance contracts sold to corporations to provide coverage on the lives of certain employees for financing employer-paid future benefit obligations.
•Run-off businesses:
•Reinsurance: predominantly comprised of guaranteed minimum death benefit (“GMDB”) and guaranteed minimum income benefit (“GMIB”) business effectively exited through reinsurance with Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska (“Berkshire”) in 2013.
•Settlement Annuity business in run-off.
•Individual Life Insurance and Annuity and Retirement Benefits Businesses: comprised of deferred gains from the sales of these businesses.
In 2020, our business was impacted by the emergence and unprecedented global spread of the novel strain of coronavirus ("COVID-19"). COVID-19 was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in March 2020 because the virus had surfaced in nearly all regions around the world. The COVID-19 pandemic has pervasively impacted the economy, financial markets and the global health care delivery systems. Cigna’s COVID-19 response actions focused on customer care, employee care and safety, as well as support for the medical community and execution of business continuity plans over our operations. COVID-19 continues to spread and we are actively managing our response and assessing impacts to our financial position and operating results, as well as adverse developments in our business. While it is difficult to predict the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our results beyond 2020, we believe that such results may be impacted by, among other things, higher medical costs to treat those affected by the virus, lower customer volumes due to rising unemployment, lower future risk adjustment revenue due to disrupted care impeding appropriate documentation of customer risk profiles in our Medicare Advantage business, the return of costs for those who had previously deferred care, vaccine costs, continued cost share waivers, the potential for continued deferral of care, or lower investment returns. Additionally, in response to the pandemic, U.S. federal and state governments have enacted new regulatory requirements as discussed in the "Business - Regulation" section of this Form 10-K.
Other Information
The financial information included in this Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 is in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) unless otherwise indicated. In the segment discussions that follow, we use the terms “adjusted revenues” and “pre-tax adjusted income from operations” to describe segment results. See the introduction to the Management Discussion and Analysis section of this Form 10-K for definitions of those terms. Industry rankings and percentages set forth herein are for the year ended December 31, 2020 unless otherwise indicated. In addition, statements set forth in this document concerning our rank or position in an industry or particular line of business have been developed internally based on publicly available information unless otherwise noted.
2

Cigna Holding Company (formerly Cigna Corporation) was incorporated in Delaware in 1981. Halfmoon Parent, Inc. was incorporated in Delaware in March 2018. Halfmoon Parent, Inc. was renamed Cigna Corporation and Cigna Holding Company became its subsidiary concurrent with the consummation of the combination with Express Scripts on December 20, 2018.
You can access our website at http://www.cigna.com to learn more about our company. We make annual, quarterly and current reports and proxy statements and amendments to those reports available, free of charge through our website (http://www.cigna.com, under the “Investors—Quarterly Reports and SEC Filings” captions) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We also use our website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under the SEC’s Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cigna is routinely posted on and accessible at http://www.cigna.com. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations portion of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings and public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is neither incorporated by reference into nor a part of this report. See also “Code of Ethics and Other Corporate Governance Disclosures” in Part III, Item 10 of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding the availability of our Codes of Ethics on our website.

EVERNORTH
														
				
Evernorth brings together coordinated and point solution health services including pharmacy solutions, benefits management solutions, care solutions and intelligence solutions, and specialized expertise – from inside and outside the company – to deliver custom and flexible solutions that meet the needs of our clients and customers. In 2020, Evernorth reported adjusted revenues of $116.1 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $5.4 billion.

		
HOW WE WIN
Evernorth accelerates delivery of innovative and flexible solutions to create value and meet the diverse needs of health plans, employers, health care providers and government organizations by:

·Partnering in unconventional ways to solve complex problems across a fragmented health care ecosystem, fueled by connected data and expertise that drives purposeful innovation
·Creating flexible and focused solutions tailored to client needs, using Evernorth's combined strengths and capabilities, as well as strategic partnerships, to deliver: better, more efficient care for patients; better experiences for clients, providers and customers; and enhanced choices for clients and customers through our open architecture model
·Evaluating medicines, digital therapeutics and other health solutions for efficacy, adherence, value and price to assist clients in selecting a cost-effective formulary
·Offering home delivery and specialty customer-centric solutions that meet the needs of our clients and customers in ways that unlock greater value and better health services while providing better and specialized clinical care
·Aggregating purchasing volume to deliver discounts and drive risk-sharing and value-based care across the pharmaceutical supply chain
·Promoting the use of generics and lowest-cost, clinically effective brands of medications
3

The following chart depicts a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment with definitions on subsequent pages.
														
Principal Products & Services	Brands/
Subsidiaries	Key Relationships	Primary Competitors
Pharmacy Solutions	
 Express Scripts Pharmacy, Accredo®, Freedom Fertility Pharmacy®,, Therapeutic Resource Center®
	Clients, Customers, Health Care Providers	Independent Pharmacy Benefit Managers (“PBMs”), Managed Care PBMs, Retail Pharmacies, Specialty Pharmacies
Benefits Management Solutions	Pharmacy and Medical Benefits Management	
eviCore Healthcare®, Express Scripts PBM, myMatrixx®, Care Continuum®, Evernorth Embarc Benefit ProtectionSM, Evernorth FamilyPathSM
	Clients, Customers, Health Care Providers, Consultants, Health Plans, Commercial and Government Payors	Health Plans, Independent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third-Party Benefit Administrators, Group Purchasing Organizations, Clinical Solutions and Health Care Data Analytics Companies
Supply Chain Administration and Network Management	
Value Based Programs (Express Scripts SafeGuardRx®, Patient AssuranceSM), National Preferred Formulary, SaveOnSP, Express Scripts MedRx ManagementSM, Express Scripts Parachute RxSM, Ascent Health Services, Econdisc, Inside Rx®
	Clients, Self-paying customers (InsideRx only), Pharmacy Providers	Health Plans, Independent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third Party Benefit Administrators, Group Purchasing Organizations
Care Solutions	
Evernorth Healthy Ways to WorkSM, inMyndSM, Health Connect 360SM, Evernorth Digital Health FormularySM, Advanced Utilization Management, Enhanced Fraud, Waste & Abuse, Advanced Opioid Management®, ScreenRx®, Behavioral Health
	Clients, Customers	Independent PBMs, Managed Care PBMs, Third-Party Benefit Administrators
Evernorth Intelligence Solutions	
Express Scripts Lab, RationalMed®, MediCUBE®, Express Scripts ScriptVisionSM
	Health Care Providers, Clients	Health Care Data Analytics Companies
Provider Services	
CuraScript SD®
	Health Care Providers, Clinics, Hospitals	Specialty Drug Distributors
Principal Products & Services
•Pharmacy Solutions: The pharmacy operations consist of ten order processing pharmacies, five patient contact centers, 26 specialty branch pharmacies and 11 high-volume automated home delivery and specialty dispensing pharmacies located throughout the United States. Dispensing pharmacies are located in Arizona, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Massachusetts, Missouri, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Tennessee.
◦Express Scripts Pharmacy: Express Scripts Pharmacy dispenses approximately 1.5 billion adjusted prescriptions(1) annually to members of pharmacy plans managed by our Express Scripts PBM. The service offers free standard shipping of maintenance medications nationwide, usually in a 90-day supply, directly to the customer's home. The service allows for automatic refills on eligible medications and unrestricted telephone access to specially trained pharmacists who can help answer customer questions. The front-end of our pharmacy is organized in Therapeutic Resource Centers, where specialized pharmacists focus their practice of pharmacy by condition, which offers customers a more personalized experience, while providing enhanced clinical care. Our differentiated practice of pharmacy, coupled with our advanced automated dispensing technology, results in safer and more accurate pharmacy operations when compared to retail pharmacies, convenient access to maintenance medications and better management of our clients' drug costs through operating efficiencies and generic substitutions. Our research shows that Express Scripts Pharmacy achieves a higher level of therapeutic interventions, better adherence and cost savings than is achieved through retail pharmacy networks.
◦Specialty Pharmacy Services: Specialty medications are primarily characterized as high-cost medications for the treatment of complex and rare diseases. These medications broadly include those with frequent dosing adjustments, intensive clinical monitoring, the need for customer training, specialized product administration requirements or medications limited to certain
(1) Non-specialty network scripts filled through 90-day programs and home delivery scripts are multiplied by three. All other network and specialty scripts are counted as one script.
4

specialty pharmacy networks by manufacturers. Through a combination of assets and capabilities, we provide an enhanced level of predictable care and therapy management for customers taking specialty medications, increased visibility and improved outcomes for payors, and custom programs for biopharmaceutical manufacturers. Accredo is focused on dispensing injectable, infused, oral and inhaled drugs that require a higher level of clinical service and support than traditional pharmacies typically offer. Accredo supports successful outcomes for customers and reduces waste for clients through specialty trained clinicians, a nationwide footprint and a network of in-home nursing services, reimbursement and customer assistance programs and biopharmaceutical services. Drug manufacturers occasionally select Accredo for exclusive dispensing of a highly specialized therapy. Freedom Fertility Pharmacy is dedicated exclusively to supporting patients undergoing fertility treatment. Accredo and Freedom Fertility Pharmacy serve customers within a pharmacy benefit plan administered by Express Scripts PBM, as well as customers in a plan administered by other PBMs and health plans.
•Benefits Management Solutions: We drive high-quality, cost-effective care through prescription drug utilization and cost management services. We support our clients' plan design selections to deliver balanced affordability, choice, simplicity and convenience. We focus our solutions to align with our clients' service, care and cost management needs. As a result, we believe we deliver better outcomes, higher customer satisfaction and a more affordable prescription drug benefit. We process drug claims via Express Scripts Pharmacy, Accredo and our retail networks by integrating retail network pharmacy administration, benefit design consultation, drug utilization review, drug formulary management and pharmacy fulfillment services. We administer payments to retail networks and bill benefits costs to our clients through our end-to-end adjudication services.
◦Drug Utilization Review program: When pharmacies submit claims for prescription drugs to us, we review them electronically in real time for health and safety. We then alert the dispensing pharmacy of any detected issues. Clients may also choose to enroll in programs that result in communications about potential therapy concerns being sent to prescribers after the initial claim submission.
◦Benefits Design Consultation: We consult with our clients on how best to structure and leverage the pharmacy benefit to meet plan objectives for affordable access to the prescription medications customers need to stay healthy, and ensure the safe and effective use of those medications.
◦myMatrixx: myMatrixx is a unique PBM with an exclusive focus on workers' compensation. We combine high touch customer service with clinical expertise and state-of-the-art business intelligence systems to deliver simplified solutions and positive outcomes. myMatrixx leverages Express Scripts' robust pharmacy network and provides a smooth and personalized experience for clients and injured workers.
◦eviCore Medical Benefits Management: eviCore healthcare is a leading provider of integrated health benefit management solutions that focus on driving adherence to evidence-based clinical guidelines, improving the quality of patient outcomes and reducing the cost of care. eviCore provides technology-enabled managed solutions in clinical diagnostic areas such as advanced imaging, cardiology and gastroenterology, as well as in whole person (longitudinal) areas such as musculoskeletal, oncology, fertility and post-acute care. eviCore contracts with health plans and other commercial and government payors to promote the appropriate use of health care services by the customers they serve. In certain instances, this occurs through capitated risk arrangements, when we assume the financial obligation for the cost of health care services provided to eligible customers covered by eviCore health care management programs.
◦Medical Drug Management: We offer a comprehensive range of services and guaranteed savings for managing medically billed specialty drugs. Our solutions apply utilization management, site of care management and claims prepayment review to effectively reduce wasteful spend, while providing services tailored to customers ensuring safety and healthier outcomes. We also offer MedRx(SM), a suite of solutions and consultative services for medical rebates contracting, and medically-billed drug preferencing and value-based contracting.
•Supply Chain Administration and Network Management:
◦Retail Network Pharmacy Administration: We contract with retail pharmacies to provide prescription drugs to customers of the pharmacy benefit plans we manage. We negotiate with pharmacies throughout the United States to discount drug prices provided to customers and manage national and regional networks responsive to client preferences related to cost containment, convenience of access for customers and network performance. We also manage networks of pharmacies customized for or under direct contract with specific clients and have contracted with pharmacy provider networks to comply with the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) access requirements for the federal Medicare Part D prescription drug program (“Medicare Part D”). All retail pharmacies in our network communicate with us online and in real-time to process prescription drug claims. When a plan customer presents their identification card at a network pharmacy, the pharmacy sends specific customer, prescriber and prescription information in an industry-standard format through our systems, which process the claim and respond to the pharmacy with relevant information to process the prescription.
◦Drug Formulary Management: Formularies are lists of drugs with designations that may be used to determine drug coverage, customer out-of-pocket costs and communicate plan preferences in competitive drug categories. Our formulary management services support clients in establishing formularies that assist customers and physicians in choosing clinically-
5

appropriate, cost-effective drugs and prioritize access, safety and affordability. We administer specific formularies on behalf of our clients, including standard formularies developed and offered by Express Scripts and custom formularies in which we play a more limited role. Most of our clients select standard formularies, governed by our National Pharmacy & Therapeutics Committee, which is comprised of a panel of independent physicians and pharmacists in active clinical practice representing a variety of specialties and practice settings, typically with major academic affiliations. In making formulary recommendations, this committee considers only the drug’s safety and efficacy and not the cost of the drug, including any negotiated manufacturer discount or rebate arrangement. This process is designed to ensure the clinical recommendation is not affected by our financial arrangements. We fully comply with this committee’s clinical recommendations regarding drugs that must be included or excluded from the formulary based on their assessment of safety and efficacy.
◦Administration of Group Purchasing Organizations: Express Scripts operates various group purchasing organizations that negotiate pricing for the purchase of pharmaceuticals, fees and formulary rebates with pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of their participants. They also provide various administrative services to their participants including management and reporting.
◦Copay Solutions: Our first-to-market innovative copay solutions helps patients afford their medications, protect plan design preferences and achieve lower trend. In partnership with SaveOnSP on the first non-essential health benefits copay assistance solution, we've driven significant savings by targeting high-cost, high-volume drugs. SaveOnSP recommends plan-design and coverage changes for certain drugs, enabling maximum savings and reducing plan and client costs. As manufacturer programs and regulations change, this aggressive solution adapts, delivering lower specialty plan cost and enhanced customer support.
◦Inside Rx: Inside Rx is a prescription medication savings program that offers eligible customers with discounts on many brand and generic medications for self-paying customers. This program is not insurance but offers savings at more than 60,000 participating retail pharmacies (including all major chains) in the United States and Puerto Rico. The program also offers discounts on prescription medications for pets. Inside Rx earns a small fee from our supply chain partners every time a customer fills a prescription via the program. This lets us provide access to our savings card at no cost to the customer.
◦Express Scripts Parachute Rx: Express Scripts Parachute Rx is a prescription discount program administered by Inside Rx to assist Americans who are newly uninsured as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic by providing access to affordable and predictable prices on select generic and brand-name medications. The program is not insurance but offers discounts on certain prescription medications for uninsured customers. Express Scripts created this limited-time program through its close partnerships with manufacturers and retail pharmacies across the country.
◦Value-Based Programs:
▪Express Scripts SafeGuardRx: We offer a solution platform aimed at therapy classes that pose budgetary threats and clinical challenges to customers. Our solutions are designed to keep our clients ahead of the drug cost curve while providing customers the personalized care and access they need. These solutions are offered throughout our pharmacy benefit management services and include, but are not limited to care for: cardiovascular, diabetes, hepatitis, inflammatory conditions, neurological, multiple sclerosis, oncology, pulmonary and rare conditions. Innovative programs, such as SafeGuardRx, combine utilization management, formulary management, specialized care from our Therapeutic Resource Centers and financial savings, to help us to change the market in key categories. These services optimize the safe and appropriate dispensing of therapeutic agents, minimize waste and improve clinical and financial outcomes. Through these services, specialist pharmacists provide the expert, personalized care that customers increasingly demand.
▪Patient Assurance Program: This program addresses the need for greater affordability and access to medications by providing a fixed out-of-pocket cost to customers in non-government funded benefit plans.
•Care Solutions: We offer clinical programs to help our clients drive better whole-person health outcomes at a lower cost by identifying and addressing potentially unsafe or wasteful prescribing, dispensing and use of prescription drugs and communicating with, or supporting communications with, physicians, pharmacies and customers.
◦Through our Healthy Ways to Work initiative, we're helping our partners and their employees navigate COVID-19 with a suite of agile solutions focused on helping people return to a healthy, safe and productive workplace, including digital and onsite support, population health and clinical care and resiliency development to help people cope with change.
◦Our inMynd mental health solution provides access to expert guidance and support for anxiety, depression and insomnia, including access to individualized support and resources, condition-specific care through our Neuroscience Therapeutic Resource Centers and a new digital Cognitive Behavioral Therapy program.
◦Health Connect 360 is a transformational, outcomes based, clinical management model that bridges pharmacy, medical, lab and customer engagement data to develop insights and deliver personalized health care clinical support. Clinical outcomes and quality metrics are tailored to meet client needs.
6

◦Through the Evernorth Digital Health Formulary, we evaluate, procure, implement and manage digital health solutions on behalf of clients, alleviating administrative burden and ensuring clinical effectiveness, data security, user-friendly experiences and financial value.
◦Advanced Utilization Management programs are the number-one tool for decreasing client spend on pharmacy. These include prior authorization, drug quantity management and step therapy.
◦Enhanced Fraud, Waste & Abuse helps plan sponsors identify potential problem customers and prescribers with unusual or excessive utilization patterns. The program is designed to help identify outliers and situations of abnormal use or prescribing patterns by analyzing types of prescriptions, refill patterns and pharmacy utilization.
◦Embarc Benefit Protection shields members from the high costs of life-saving gene therapies, so that customers who need treatment can get it, through financial protection for high-cost therapies, access to quality, cost-effective in-network providers and support from a dedicated gene therapy case management team.
◦FamilyPath is raising the bar for fertility health by providing more comprehensive, more flexible coverage and proactive care for growing families, including expanded medical and pharmacy benefit management; access to vetted provider and lab networks; and dedicated Fertility Advisors to proactively support and guide patients.
•Evernorth Intelligence Solutions: By bringing together world-class talent, multi-disciplinary expertise and advanced data and analytics, we unlock actionable insights to help drive greater predictability, affordability and simplicity. We work together with our clients and partners to create dynamic solutions, services and platforms that guide better decisions and improved performance (see "Business - Data, Analytics, and Technology" section of this Form 10-K for further information).
◦Evernorth Labs: We accelerate innovation through increased collaboration with clients, customers and partners to develop solutions for launch in their businesses. With our Labs, which are state-of-the-art research facilities and shared spaces for collaboration, ideation and innovation, we gather with our clients and industry leaders to solve the toughest challenges in the health care system, including: better managing the most complex and expensive disease states, such as oncology; improving care access and delivery, such as worksite, home and virtual care; and planning for emerging trends, such as artificial intelligence, and industry disruptors, such as COVID-19.
◦Data, advanced analytics and platforms: We use advanced predictive modeling to shape solutions that help decrease healthcare fragmentation, drive optimized care coordination, reduce key cost drivers and improve health outcomes. In-depth trend analysis helps us to identify and effectively address challenges like opioid abuse, COVID-19 and other emerging health crises. We use market surveillance and forecasting to pinpoint and proactively address cost drivers. Our platform strategy as a service gives clients the tools to build successful businesses in a flexible, customizable way: Trend Central® provides access to key performance indicators to help plan sponsors reduce costs and work towards healthier outcomes; HealthPredictSM produces high patient-level risk scores, to show the highest value opportunities for proactive intervention; MediCUBE gives our academic detailing pharmacists the analytical power to identify ways to save plans from significant unnecessary spend and improve quality metrics; RationalMed improves patient health and safety by integrating medical, pharmacy and laboratory claims data to initiate changes and correct errors in care, lowering both medical and prescription drug costs; and ScriptVision provides a suite of real-time, data-driven capabilities that empower physicians to make the best prescribing choices, including ePrescribing (including controlled substances), real-time prescription benefit information, electronic prior authorizations, clinical care messages such as drug interactions and high-risk medication alerts and data on and patient adherence rates.
•Provider Services: CuraScript SD is a specialty distributor of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies (including injectable and infusible pharmaceuticals and medications to treat specialty and rare or orphan diseases) directly to health care providers, clinics and hospitals in the United States for office or clinic administration. Through this business, we provide distribution services primarily to office and clinic-based physicians who treat customers with chronic diseases and regularly order costly specialty pharmaceuticals. This business provides competitive pricing on pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, operates three distribution centers and ships most products overnight within the United States; it also provides distribution capabilities to Puerto Rico and Guam. It is a contracted supplier with most major group purchasing organizations and leverages our distribution platform to operate as a third-party logistics provider for several pharmaceutical companies.
Customers
Our customers in the Evernorth segment include clients and patients, as described below, along with a description of our current and former significant clients:
•Clients: We provide services to managed care organizations, health insurers, third-party administrators, employers, union-sponsored benefit plans, workers’ compensation plans, government health programs, providers, clinics, hospitals and others. We provide services to a majority of customers in our U.S. Medical segment.
7

•Patients: Prescription drugs are dispensed to patients connected to the service offerings we provide to clients. Prescription drugs are dispensed primarily through networks of retail pharmacies under non-exclusive contracts with us and via home delivery from Express Scripts Pharmacy and specialty drug fulfillment pharmacies.
The Department of Defense TRICARE® Pharmacy Program is the military health care program serving active-duty service customers, National Guard and Reserve customers and retirees, as well as their dependents. Under this contract, we provide online claims adjudication, home delivery services, specialty pharmacy clinical services, claims processing and contact center support and other services critical to managing pharmacy trend. In 2020 and 2019, revenues from this contract were significant to the segment.
In 2019, Express Scripts and Prime Therapeutics LLC (“Prime”) entered into an agreement effective on April 1, 2020 which is delivering improved choice and affordability for Prime’s clients and their patients by enhancing retail pharmacy networks and pharmaceutical manufacturer value. In 2021, the relationship with Prime was expanded to include the option for Prime’s plans to access the Accredo specialty pharmacy and Express Scripts home delivery in-network pharmacies.
On January 30, 2019, Anthem, Inc. (“Anthem”), a former customer, exercised its right to early termination of its pharmacy benefit management services agreement, effective March 1, 2019. As of December 31, 2019, the transition of customers was substantially complete. For further discussion of our Anthem relationship, see the “Executive Summary – Key Transactions and Business Developments” section of our MD&A located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
Competition
The health care industry has undergone periods of substantial consolidation and may continue to consolidate in the future. We believe the primary competitive factors in the industry include the ability to: negotiate with retail pharmacies to ensure our retail pharmacy networks meet the needs of our clients and customers; provide home delivery and specialty pharmacy services; negotiate discounts and rebates on prescription drugs with drug manufacturers; navigate the complexities of government-reimbursed business including Medicare, Medicaid and the public exchanges; manage cost and quality of specialty drugs; use the information we obtain about drug utilization patterns and consumer behavior to reduce costs for our clients and customers and the level of service we provide.
•Managed Care PBMs: CVS Caremark (owned by CVS Health Corporation), Humana, IngenioRx (owned by Anthem), OptumRx (owned by UnitedHealth Group Inc.) and Prime Therapeutics (owned by a collection of Blue Cross / Blue Shield Plans) compete with us on a variety of products and in various regions throughout the United States.
•Independent PBMs: MedImpact, Navitus Health Solutions, Elixir (owned by Rite Aid Corporation) and many other regional PBMs compete with us on a variety of products across the United States.
•Pharmacies: CVS, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., WalMart, Inc., Rite Aid, Kroger and other independent pharmacies compete with us for the delivery of prescription drug needs to our customers. In addition, many PBMs own and operate home delivery and specialty pharmacies including CVS, OptumRx, Walgreens, Humana and Elixir. New entrants continue to emerge including Amazon Pharmacy, Capsule and Hims.
•Third-Party Benefits Administrators: Third parties that specialize in claim adjudication and benefit administration, such as SS&C Health, are direct competitors. With the emergence of alternative benefit models through Private Exchanges, the competitive landscape also includes brokers, health plans and consultants. Some of these competitors may deploy greater financial, marketing and technological resources than we do and new market entrants, including strategic alliances aimed at modifying the current health care delivery models or entering the prescription drug sector from another sector of the health care industry, may increase competition as barriers to entry are relatively low. For example, GoodRx is a new entrant focused on serving the uninsured and underinsured in the cash pay pharmacy administration space.
•Clinical Solutions and Health Care Data Analytics Companies: Optum (owned by UnitedHealth Group Inc.), Anthem, Magellan Health, HealthHelp, Cotiviti and Inovalon are among the companies that compete with us in this market.
Operations
•Sales and Account Management: Our sales and account management teams market and sell pharmacy benefit management solutions and are supported by client service representatives, clinical pharmacy managers and benefit analysis consultants. These teams work with clients to develop innovative strategies that put medicine within reach of customers while helping health benefit providers improve access to and affordability of prescription drugs.
•Supply Chain: Our supply chain contracting and strategy teams negotiate and manage pharmacy retail network contracts, pharmaceutical and wholesaler purchasing contracts and manufacturer rebate contracts. As our clients continue to experience increased cost trends, our supply chain teams develop innovative solutions such as our SafeGuardRx platform and preferred pharmacy networks to combat these cost increases. In addition, our Formulary Consulting team, consisting of pharmacists and
8

financial analysts, provides services to our clients to support formulary decisions, benefit design consultation and utilization management programs.
•Clinical Support: Our staff of highly trained health care professionals provides clinical support for our medical, behavioral and pharmacy customers. Our services include:
◦Case management support for our customers through the continuum of health care – from inpatient hospitalization to at home care – as well as health coaching and on-site coaching
◦Condition-specific specialized customer care through our Therapeutic Resource Center facilities staffed with specialist pharmacists, nurses and other clinicians
◦Clinical development and operational support for our pharmacy benefit management services by our clinical solutions staff of pharmacists and physicians who conduct a wide range of activities including: identifying emerging medication-related safety issues and alerting physicians, clients and customers (as appropriate); providing drug information services; managing formulary; and developing utilization management, safety (drug utilization review) and other clinical interventions
Suppliers
We maintain an inventory of brand-name and generic pharmaceuticals in our home delivery and specialty pharmacies. Our specialty pharmacies also carry biopharmaceutical products to meet the needs of our customers, including pharmaceuticals for the treatment of rare or chronic diseases; if a drug is not in our inventory, we can generally obtain it from a supplier within a reasonable amount of time.
We purchase pharmaceuticals either directly from manufacturers or through authorized wholesalers. Evernorth uses one wholesaler more than others in the industry, but holds contracts with other wholesalers if needs for an alternate source arise. Generic pharmaceuticals are generally purchased directly from manufacturers.
Industry Developments
See the “Industry Developments” section of the MD&A located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K for discussion of key industry developments impacting this segment.
Intellectual Property Rights
The trademarks and service marks covering products, services and businesses provided under the Evernorth segment include, but are not limited to, the following: EXPRESS SCRIPTS®, EVERNORTHSM, EVERNORTH HEALTHSM, MEDCO®, ACCREDO®, CURASCRIPTSD®, MYMATRIXX®, EVICORE HEALTHCARE®, FREEDOM FERTILITY PHARMACY®, CARE CONTINUUM®, RATIONALMED®, SCREENRX®, EXPRESSALLIANCE®, EVERNORTH DIGITAL HEALTH FORMULARYSM, THERAPEUTIC RESOURCE CENTER®, ADVANCED OPIOID MANAGEMENT®, SAFEGUARDRX®, HIV CARE VALUESM, RARE CONDITIONS CARE VALUE®, NEUROLOGICAL CARE VALUESM, CARDIOVASCULAR CARE VALUESM, HEPATITIS CURE VALUE®, MARKET EVENTS PROTECTIONSM, ONCOLOGY CARE VALUESM, DIABETES CARE VALUESM, INFLAMMATORY CONDITIONS CARE VALUESM, INFLATION PROTECTIONSM, PULMONARY CARE VALUE®, MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS CARE VALUESM, MIGRAINE CARE VALUESM, CHOLESTEROL CARE VALUESM, HEALTH CONNECT 360SM, EMBARC BENEFIT PROTECTIONSM, INMYNDSM, EXPRESS SCRIPTS PATIENT ASSURANCESM, MEDICUBE®, EXPRESS SCRIPTS PHARMACY®, FAMILYPATHSM, SCRIPTVISIONSM, HEALTHY WAYS TO WORKSM and INSIDE RX®. We, or our affiliated companies, own trademarks and trademark registrations for these and other company marks.
We also hold a portfolio of patents and pending patent applications. We are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents.
9

U.S. MEDICAL
														
				
U.S. Medical includes Cigna’s U.S. Commercial and U.S. Government businesses that provide comprehensive medical and coordinated solutions to clients and customers. U.S. Commercial products and services include medical, pharmacy, behavioral health, dental, vision, health advocacy programs and other products and services for insured and self-insured customers. U.S. Government solutions include Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D plans for seniors, Medicaid plans, and individual health insurance plans both on and off the public exchanges. In 2020, U.S. Medical reported adjusted revenues of $38.5 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $3.8 billion.
		
HOW WE WIN
·Broad and deep portfolio of solutions across U.S. Commercial and U.S. Government segments
·Commitment to highest-quality health outcomes and customer experiences
·Collaborative physician engagement models emphasizing value over volume of services
·Integrated and coordinated benefit solutions that deliver value for our customers, clients and partners
·Technology and data analytics powering actionable insights and affordable, predictable solutions
·Talented and caring people embracing change and putting customers at the center of all we do
We differentiate ourselves by providing innovative, personalized and affordable health care benefit solutions based on the unique needs of the individuals and clients we serve. We increase value through our integrated approach and use of technology and data analytics to enhance patient engagement and health care outcomes, underscoring our strategic focus on delivering an industry-leading customer experience. We continue to strengthen our collaborative relationships with providers as we accelerate our transition to a value-based reimbursement system.
We offer a mix of core health insurance products and services to employers, other groups and individuals along with specialty products and services designed to improve the quality of care, lower cost and help customers achieve better health outcomes. Many of these products are available on a standalone basis, but we believe they create additional value when integrated with a Cigna-administered health plan. Our products are available through several distribution channels including brokers, direct sales and public and private exchanges. Our three funding solutions (i.e., administrative services only (“ASO”), insured – guaranteed cost (“GC”) and insured – experience-rated (“ER”) arrangements) enable us to customize the amount of risk taken by, and lower costs for, our clients.














10

The following chart depicts a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment, with definitions on subsequent pages.
																				
Principal Products & Services	Major Brand(s)	Geography	Funding Solution(s)	Market Segment(s)	Primary Distribution Channel(s)	Primary Competitors
U.S. Commercial Medical
Managed Care	Cigna HealthCare	Nationwide	GC, ER, ASO	
U.S. Commercial
	Brokers, Private Exchanges, Direct	National Insurers, Local Healthplans, Third-Party Administrators (“TPAs”)
Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”)	Cigna	Nationwide	National Insurers, TPAs
Consumer-Driven	Cigna	Nationwide	National Insurers, Local Health Maintenance Organizations (“HMOs”)
U.S. Government Medical
Individual and Family Plans	Cigna	
11 states(1)
	GC	Individual	Public Exchanges, Brokers, Direct	Local Healthplans, Start-ups, National Insurers
Medicare Advantage	Cigna	
18 states(2) & District of Columbia
	GC	
U.S. Government
	Direct, Brokers	National Insurers, Local Healthplans
Medicare Stand –Alone Prescription Drug Plans	Cigna, Express Scripts	Nationwide	GC, ASO	
U.S. Government
	Direct, Brokers	National Insurers
Medicare Supplement	Cigna	
48 states(3) & District of Columbia
	GC	
U.S. Government
	Brokers, Direct, Private Exchanges	National Insurers
Medicaid	Cigna	
Texas
	GC	
U.S. Government
	Direct, Brokers	National Insurers
Specialty Products and Services
Stop-Loss	Cigna	Nationwide	GC	
U.S. Commercial
	Brokers, Direct	National Insurers, Specialty Companies
Cost Containment	Cigna	Nationwide	GC, ER, ASO	
U.S. Commercial
	Direct	National Insurers, Specialty Companies
Consumer Health Engagement	Cigna	Nationwide	GC, ER, ASO	
U.S. Commercial, U.S. Government
	Brokers, Direct	National Insurers, Specialty Companies
Pharmacy Management	Cigna	Nationwide	GC, ER, ASO	
U.S. Commercial, U.S. Government
	Brokers, Direct	National PBMs
Behavioral Health	Cigna Behavioral Health	Nationwide	GC, ER, ASO	
U.S. Commercial
	Brokers, Direct	National Insurers, Specialty Companies
Dental & Vision	Cigna Dental HealthCare	Nationwide	
GC, ER, ASO	
U.S. Commercial, U.S. Government
	Brokers, Direct	Dental Insurers, National Insurers
(1)AZ, CO, FL, IL, KS, MO, NC, TN, TX, UT, VA
(2)AL, AZ, AR, CO, DE, FL, GA, IL, KS, MD, MS, MO, NC, NJ, PA, SC, TN, TX
(3)All states except MA and NY
11

Principal Products & Services
U.S. Commercial Medical
•Managed Care Plans are offered through our insurance companies, HMOs and TPA companies. HMO, Surefit, LocalPlus®, Network and Open Access Plus plans use meaningful cost-sharing incentives to encourage the use of “in-network” versus “out-of-network” health care providers. The national provider network for Managed Care Plans is somewhat smaller than the national network used with the PPO plan product line.
•PPO Plans feature a network with broader provider access than the Managed Care Plans.
•Consumer-Driven Products are typically paired with a high-deductible medical plan and offer customers a tax-advantaged way to pay for eligible health care expenses. These products, consisting of health savings accounts, health reimbursement accounts and flexible spending accounts, encourage customers to play an active role in managing their health and health care costs.
U.S. Government Medical
•Individual and Family Plans are primarily Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) compliant exclusive provider organization ("EPO") or HMO plans marketed to individuals under age 65 who do not have access to health care coverage through an employer or government program such as Medicare or Medicaid. Customers receive comprehensive health care benefits and have access to a local network of health care providers who have been selected with cost and quality in mind.
•Medicare Advantage Plans allow Medicare-eligible beneficiaries to receive health care benefits, including prescription drugs, through a managed care health plan such as our coordinated care plans. Our Medicare Advantage Plans include HMO and PPO plans marketed to individuals. A significant portion of our Medicare Advantage customers receive medical care from our value-based models that focus on developing highly engaged physician networks, aligning payment incentives to improved health outcomes and using timely and transparent data sharing.
•Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Products provide a number of prescription drug plan options, as well as service and information support, to Medicare eligible and dually eligible Medicaid customers, either directly to individuals or through a qualified employer group. Our stand-alone plans offer the coverage of Medicare combined with the flexibility to select a product that provides enhanced benefits and a formulary that meets an individual’s specific needs. Eligible beneficiaries benefit from broad network access and enhanced service intended to promote adherence, wellness and affordability for our eligible beneficiaries.
•Medicare Supplement Plans provide Medicare-eligible beneficiaries with federally standardized Medigap-style plans. Beneficiaries may select among the various plans with specific plan options to meet their unique needs and may visit, without the need for a referral, any health care provider or facility that accepts Medicare throughout the United States.
•Medicaid Managed Care provides both acute care and Long-Term Services and Supports ("LTSS") by integrating primary care, behavioral health care, pharmacy services and LTSS for individuals who are age 65 or older or adults who have a disability. LTSS includes services such as attendant care and day activity and health services. Members have access to a service coordinator who is responsible for coordinating acute care and LTSS for members.
Specialty Products and Services
•Pharmacy Management services and benefits can be combined with our medical offerings. The comprehensive suite of pharmacy management services available to clients and customers, utilizing Evernorth's capabilities, includes benefits management, specialty pharmacy services, clinical solutions, home delivery and certain health management services.
•Behavioral Health services consist of a broad national network of behavioral health providers which includes one of the largest virtual networks in the United States, behavioral health specialty case and utilization management, a crisis intervention line accessible anytime, employee assistance programs and work/life programs. We focus on integrating our programs and services with medical, pharmacy and disability programs to facilitate customized, holistic care as well as to provide resources that increase resiliency and address non-medical factors that affect overall well-being.
•Cost Containment Programs are designed to contain the cost of covered health care services and supplies. These programs reduce out-of-network utilization and costs, protect customers from balance billing and educate customers regarding the availability of lower cost in-network services. In addition, under these programs we negotiate discounts with out-of-network providers, review provider bills and recover overpayments. We charge fees for providing or arranging for these services. These programs may be administered by third-party vendors that have contracted with Cigna.
•Stop-Loss insurance coverage is offered to self-insured clients whose group health plans are administered by Cigna. Stop-loss insurance provides reimbursement for claims in excess of a predetermined amount for individuals, the entire group, or both.
12

•Consumer Health Engagement services are offered to customers covered under plans administered by Cigna or by third-party administrators. These services consist of an array of health management, disease management and wellness services. Our Medical Management programs include case, specialty and utilization management and a 24/7 Health Information line which ensures around the clock access to a medical professional. Our Health Advocacy program services include early intervention in the treatment of chronic conditions and an array of health and wellness coaching. We administer incentives programs designed to encourage customers to engage in health improvement activities.
•Dental & Vision solutions include dental HMO plans, dental PPO plans, exclusive dental provider organization plans, traditional dental indemnity plans and a dental discount program. Employers and other groups can purchase our products on either an insured or self-insured basis as standalone products or in conjunction with medical products. Additionally, individual customers can purchase insured dental PPO plans as standalone products or in conjunction with individual medical policies.
Revenues: Fees and Premiums
•ASO. Plan sponsors (i.e., employers, unions and other groups) self-fund all claims, but may purchase stop-loss insurance to limit exposure. We collect fees from plan sponsors for providing access to our participating provider network and for other services and programs including: claims administration; behavioral health services; disease management; utilization management; cost containment; dental and pharmacy benefit management. Approximately 84% of our U.S. Commercial medical customers are in ASO arrangements.
•Insured. In most states, individual and group insurance premium rates must be approved by the applicable state regulatory agency (typically department of insurance) and state or federal laws may restrict or limit the use of rating methods. Premium rates for groups and individuals are subject to state review to determine whether they are adequate, not excessive and not unfairly discriminatory. In addition, the ACA subjects individual and small group policy rate increases above an identified threshold to review by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) and requires payment of premium refunds on individual and group medical insurance products if minimum medical loss ratio (“MLR”) requirements are not met. The MLR represents the percentage of premiums used to pay claims and expenses for activities that improve the quality of care. In our individual business, premiums may also be adjusted as a result of the government risk adjustment program that accounts for the relative health status of our customers.
◦Guaranteed Cost Insurance. Premium rates are established at the beginning of a policy period and, depending on group size, may be based in whole or in part on prior experience of the policyholder or on a pool of similar policyholders. We generally cannot subsequently adjust premiums to reflect actual claim experience until the next annual renewal. The policyholder does not participate, or share in, actual claim experience. We keep any experience surplus or margin if costs are less than the premium charged (subject to minimum medical loss ratio rebate requirements discussed above) and bear the risk for actual costs in excess of the premium charged. Approximately 10% of U.S. Commercial medical customers are in guaranteed cost arrangements.
◦Experience-rated Insurance. Premium rates are established at the beginning of a policy period and are typically based on prior claim experience of the policyholder. When claims and expenses are less than the premium charged (an “experience surplus” or “margin”), the policyholder may be credited for a portion of this experience surplus or margin. If claims and expenses exceed the premium charged (an “experience deficit”), we bear these costs. In certain cases, experience deficits incurred while the policy is in effect are accumulated and may be recovered through future policy year experience surpluses or margins. Approximately 5% of U.S. Commercial medical customers are in experience-rated arrangements.
◦Medicare Advantage. Premium rates are established at the beginning of a policy period based upon prior claim experience. We cannot subsequently adjust premiums to reflect actual claim experience until the next policy period. We receive fixed monthly payments from CMS for each plan customer based on customer demographic data and actual customer health risk factors compared to the broader Medicare population. We also may earn additional revenue from CMS related to quality performance measures (known as ‘‘Star Ratings’’). See the ‘‘Executive Overview’’ section of our MD&A of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of our Star Ratings. Premiums may be received from customers when our plan premium exceeds the revenue received from CMS. The ACA requires Medicare Advantage plans to meet a minimum MLR of 85%. If the MLR for a CMS contract is less than 85%, we are required to pay a rebate to CMS and could be required to make additional payments if the MLR continues to be less than 85% for successive years.
See the “Business - Regulation” section of this Form 10-K for additional information about premiums, commercial MLR requirements and risk mitigation programs of the ACA.
13

Market Segments
•U.S. Commercial comprises employers from the following market segments:
◦National. Multistate employers with 5,000 or more U.S.-based, full-time employees. We offer primarily ASO funding solutions in this market segment.
◦Middle Market. Employers generally with 500 to 4,999 U.S.-based, full-time employees. This segment also includes single-site employers with more than 5,000 employees and Taft-Hartley plans and other groups. We offer ASO, experience-rated and guaranteed cost insured funding solutions in this market segment.
◦Select. Employers generally with 51-499 eligible employees. We usually offer ASO with stop-loss insurance coverage and guaranteed cost insured funding solutions in this market segment.
◦Small Group. Employers generally with 2-50 eligible employees. We offer guaranteed cost insured funding solutions in select geographies with a strategic partner, Oscar Health, in this market segment.
•U.S. Government comprises the following market segments:
◦Individual. Includes individuals under age 65 who do not have access to health care coverage through an employer or government program such as Medicare or Medicaid. We offer guaranteed cost, medical ACA-compliant and dental plans in this segment.
◦Medicare. Includes individuals who are Medicare-eligible beneficiaries, as well as employer group sponsored pre- and post-65 retirees. We also have dual-eligible customers who receive both Medicare and Medicaid benefits. We receive revenue from CMS based on customer demographic data and health risk factors. In 2020, revenues from CMS were significant to the segment.
Primary Distribution Channels
•Brokers. Sales representatives distribute our products and services to a broad group of insurance brokers and consultants across the United States.
•Direct. Cigna sales representatives distribute our products and services directly to employers, unions and other groups or individuals across the United States. Various products may also be sold directly to insurance companies, HMOs and third-party administrators. This may take the form of in-person contact, telephone or group selling venues. Cigna also offers an online direct to consumer enrollment platform for our individual market segment.
•Private Exchanges. We partner with select companies that have created private exchanges where individuals and organizations can acquire health insurance. We actively evaluate private exchange participation opportunities as they emerge in the market and target our participation to those models that best align with our mission and value proposition.
•Public Exchanges. Cigna offers individual ACA-compliant policies through public health insurance exchanges in select geographies.
Competition
The primary competitive factors affecting our business are quality and cost effectiveness of service and provider networks; effectiveness of medical care management; products that meet the needs of employers and their employees; total cost management; technology; and effectiveness of marketing and sales. Financial strength, as indicated by ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies, is also a competitive factor. Our health advocacy capabilities, holistic approach to consumer engagement, breadth of product offerings, clinical care and health management capabilities and array of product funding options are competitive advantages. We believe our focus on improving the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve, and how we deliver better affordability, predictability, and simplicity in health care will allow us to further differentiate ourselves.
•National Insurers. United HealthGroup Inc., Aetna Inc. (owned by CVS Health Corporation), Anthem, Humana and Blue Cross Blue Shield plans compete with us in a variety of products and regions throughout the United States.
•Local Healthplans. Blue Cross Blue Shield plans, local affiliates of major insurance companies and hospitals and regional stand-alone managed care and specialty companies compete with us in the states in which we offer managed care products. Additionally, plan sponsors may contract directly with providers.
•TPAs. Third-party administrators compete with us for ASO business.
•Start-ups. Emerging participants including alternative health service models, consortiums and other health plans seeking to disrupt, often through competitive technology.
•Dental Insurers. Various companies offering primarily dental insurance compete with us on these products.
•Specialty Companies. Specialty insurance or service companies that offer niche products and services compete with us.
14

Partnering to Deliver on the Promise of More Affordable, Predictable, Simple Health Care
Cigna’s strategy engages customers in their health, collaborates with providers to help them improve their performance and connects customers and providers through aligned health goals, incentives and actionable information to enable better decisions and outcomes. Our delivery strategy is designed to ensure our customers have access to the right care, in the preferred and appropriate setting at the right time. Fueled by advanced insights and predictive analytics, Cigna is committed to developing innovative solutions that span the health care delivery system and can be applied to different types of providers. Currently we have numerous collaborative arrangements with our participating health care providers that reach over 2.9 million customers and are actively developing new arrangements to support our strategy.
•Accountable Care Program. We have approximately 240 collaborative care arrangements with primary care groups built on the patient-centered medical home and accountable care organization (“ACO”) models. Our arrangements span 34 states and reach over 2.9 million customers. We have made adjustments to the program to deepen our partnerships in responding to the challenges and needs arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
•Hospital Quality Program. We have contracts with 175 hospital systems, involving over 540 hospitals, with reimbursements tied to quality metrics.
•Specialist Programs. We have over 300 arrangements with specialist groups in value-based reimbursement arrangements. These arrangements include specialties in orthopedics, obstetrics and gynecology, cardiology, gastroenterology, oncology, nephrology and neurology. Arrangements include incentives for enhanced care coordination and episodes of care reimbursements for meeting cost and quality goals. We are expanding these programs to include bundled payment arrangements beginning with orthopedics.
•Independent Practice Associations. We have value-based physician engagement models in our Medicare Advantage business that allow physician groups to share financial outcomes with us. This clinical model also includes outreach to new and at-risk patients to ensure they are accessing their primary care physician.
•Participating Provider Network. We provide our customers with an extensive network of participating health care providers, hospitals and other facilities, pharmacies and providers of health care services and supplies. In most instances, we contract with them directly; however, in some instances, we contract with third parties for access to their provider networks and care management services. In addition, we have entered into strategic alliances with several regional managed care organizations to gain access to their provider networks and discounts.
•Virtual Care. We encourage access for customers through telehealth services as a way to support the patient/doctor relationship. Our telehealth coverage provides the flexibility for the customer to access their own medical and behavioral providers, as well as a network of telehealth providers for urgent care needs.
Industry Developments
See the “Industry Developments” section of the MD&A in this Form 10-K for discussion of key industry developments impacting this segment.

INTERNATIONAL MARKETS
														
				
Cigna’s International Markets segment has operations in over 30 countries or jurisdictions providing a full range of comprehensive medical and supplemental health, life and accident benefits to individuals and employers. Products and services include comprehensive health coverage, hospitalization, dental, critical illness, personal accident, term life, medical cost containment and variable universal life. In 2020, International Markets reported adjusted revenues of $5.9 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $900 million.
South Korea represents our single largest geographic market for International Markets. For information on this concentration of risk for the International Markets segment's business in South Korea, see "Other Items Affecting Results of International Markets" in the International Markets section of the MD&A located in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
15

		
HOW WE WIN
 
·Offering a broad range of health and protection-related solutions to meet the needs of the growing
 middle class and globally mobile
·Leveraging deep consumer insights to drive product and service innovation
·Maintaining leading innovative, direct-to-consumer distribution capabilities
·Providing access to quality, affordable care through one of the largest global provider networks
·Implementing locally-licensed and compliant solutions managed by strong, locally-developed talent
 
Demand for our products and services is driven by the growing global middle class, aging populations, increasing prevalence of chronic conditions and rising global health care costs. Our focus on product and service innovation means we continue to deliver solutions that meet the evolving needs of individual and group customers. Our products, distribution channels and funding sources range by customer and geography.
International Markets is well positioned to address the growing demand for access to quality, affordable care and supplemental health and life protection that fill gaps in public and private care. We distinguish ourselves through differentiated direct-to-consumer distribution, customer insights, product innovation, a leading provider network and compliant solutions. We identify and pursue attractive market opportunities to bring health and protection solutions and tailor those solutions to the market and customer needs. Over the past several years, we have extended our product offerings and geographic reach. The chart below provides a high-level summary of our principal products and services in this segment with definitions on subsequent pages.
																				
Principal Products & Services	Major Brand(s)	Geography	Funding Solution(s)	Key Relationships	Primary Distribution Channel(s)	Primary Competitors
Global Health Care	Cigna Global Health Benefits, Cigna Global Individual Health	Worldwide (except as limited by applicable law)	ER, GC, ASO	Multinational Companies, Inter-governmental and Non-governmental Organizations
Globally mobile individuals	Brokers, Agents, Direct-to-Consumer	Global insurers
Local Health Care	Cigna,
ManipalCigna,
 CignaCMB	United Kingdom, Spain, Hong Kong, India, China, Singapore, Middle East, Thailand	ER, GC, ASO	Employer Groups
 
Individuals	Brokers, Agents, Direct-to-Consumer	Global insurers and local non-U.S. insurers
Supplemental Health, Life, & Accident	Cigna
LINA Korea,
CignaCMB,
 ManipalCigna,
 CignaFinans	Asia Pacific, India, Turkey	GC	Individuals	Affinity, Bancassurance, Brokers, Agents, Direct-to-Consumer	Global insurers and local non-U.S. insurers
Principal Products & Services
Global Health Care products and services include insurance and administrative services for medical, dental, pharmacy, vision and life, accidental death and dismemberment and disability risks. We are leading providers of products and services that meet the needs of multinational employers, intergovernmental and nongovernmental organizations and globally mobile individuals with a focus on keeping employees healthy and productive. The employer benefits products and services are offered through guaranteed cost, experience-rated and administrative services only funding solutions, while individuals purchase guaranteed cost coverage. For definitions of funding solutions, see “Revenues: Fees and Premiums” section in the “Business - U.S. Medical” section of this Form 10-K.
Local Health Care products and services include medical, dental, pharmacy and vision as well as life coverage. The customers of local health care businesses are employers and individuals located in specific countries where the products and services are purchased. These employer services can similarly be funded through a range of options; individuals purchase on a guaranteed cost basis.
16

Supplemental Health, Life and Accident Insurance products and services generally provide simple, affordable coverage of risks for the health and financial security of individuals. Supplemental health products provide stated benefit payments for certain specified health risks and include personal accident, accidental death, critical illness, hospitalization, travel, dental, dementia, cancer and other specified condition coverages. We also offer customers term and variable universal life insurance and certain savings products in select markets.
Competition
We anticipate that the competitive environment will continue to intensify as insurance and financial services providers more aggressively pursue expansion opportunities across geographies, particularly Asia. We believe competitive factors will include speed-to-market, customer insights, branding, product, distribution and service innovation, underwriting and pricing, efficient management of marketing and operating processes, commission levels paid to distribution partners, the quality of compliance functions, claims, network coverage and medical cost management and talent acquisition and retention. Additionally, in most overseas markets, perception of commitment to the market and financial strength will likely be an important competitive factor.
Pricing and Reinsurance
Premium rates and fees for our global and local health care products reflect assumptions about future claims, expenses, customer demographics, investment returns and profit margins. For products using networks of contracted health care providers and facilities, premiums reflect assumptions about the impact of these contracts and utilization management on future claims. Most contracts permit rate changes at least annually.
The profitability of health care products is dependent upon the accuracy of projections for health care inflation (unit cost, location of delivery of care, currency of incurral and utilization), customer demographics, the adequacy of fees charged for administration and effective medical cost management.
Premium rates for our supplemental benefits products are based on assumptions about mortality, morbidity, customer acquisition and retention, customer demographics, expenses and capital requirements, as well as interest rates. Variable universal life insurance products fees consist of mortality, administrative, asset management and surrender charges assessed against the contractholder’s fund balance. Mortality charges on variable universal life may be adjusted prospectively to reflect expected mortality experience. Most contracts permit premium rate changes at least annually.
A global approach to underwriting risk management allows each local business to underwrite and accept risk within specified limits. Retentions are centrally managed through cost-effective use of external reinsurance to limit our liability on a per event (catastrophe) basis.
Industry Developments and Other Items Affecting International Markets
Pressure on social health care systems, a rapidly aging population and increased wealth and education in developing insurance markets are leading to higher demand for health insurance and financial security products. In the supplemental health, life and accident business, direct marketing channels continue to grow and attract new competitors with industry consolidation among financial institutions and other affinity partners.
Data privacy regulation has tightened in all markets in the wake of high-profile data privacy incidents, impacting affinity partner and customer attitudes toward direct marketing of insurance and other financial services. It has also placed an added emphasis on the importance of operational compliance. In addition to data privacy, consumer protection, specifically market conduct and culture, continues to be a focus for regulators in many markets.
Capital requirement standards continue to evolve with several markets implementing new capital regimes over the next few years.

GROUP DISABILITY AND OTHER
														
				
Group Disability and Other includes Cigna’s Group Disability and Life business which offers group long-term and short-term disability, and group life, accident, voluntary and specialty insurance products and services. Additionally, this segment includes COLI and the Company’s run-off operations. In 2020, Group Disability and Other reported adjusted revenues of $5.3 billion and pre-tax adjusted income from operations of $290 million.
17

On December 31, 2020, Cigna completed the sale of the Group Disability and Life business to New York Life Insurance Company for $6.2 billion. In connection with the sale, the substantial majority of our Group Disability and Life operating segment was sold to New York Life Insurance Company, and our continuing operations in voluntary products and services will be reported in the U.S. Medical segment following the sale.
Group Disability and Life
In 2020, our Group Disability and Life operating segment included our commercial long- and short-term disability products and our term life group insurance products. We also offered personal accident insurance and will continue to offer voluntary products and services.
Principal Products & Services
•Group Long-term and Short-term Disability insurance products generally provide a fixed level of income to replace a portion of wages lost due to disability. As part of our group disability insurance products, we also assisted employees in returning to work and employers with resources to manage the cost of employee disability.
•Leave Administration solutions help customers effectively manage workforce absence and provide coverage for paid leave.
•Group Term Life insurance may be employer-paid basic life insurance, employee-paid supplemental life insurance or a combination thereof.
•Personal Accident Insurance coverage consists primarily of accidental death and dismemberment and travel accident insurance to employers.
•Voluntary Products and Services include plans that provide employers with administrative solutions designed to provide a complete and simple way to manage their benefits program. These voluntary offerings include accidental injury insurance, critical illness coverage and hospital care coverage, and provide additional dollar payouts to employees for unexpected accidents, hospitalization or more serious illnesses. Group voluntary products and services are not included in the sale of the Group Disability and Life business to New York Life and results of these products and services will be reported in the U.S. Medical segment starting with the first quarter of 2021.
Premiums charged for disability and term life insurance products are usually established in advance of the policy period and are generally guaranteed for one to three years, but selectively guaranteed for up to five years. Policies are generally subject to termination by the policyholder or by the insurance company annually. Premium rates reflect assumptions about future claims, expenses, credit risk, investment returns and profit margins. These assumptions may be based in whole or in part on prior experience of the account or on a pool of accounts, depending on the group size and the statistical credibility of the experience that varies by product.
These products and services are distributed through brokers and direct sales and are available in guaranteed cost, experience-rated and ASO arrangements.
Other Operations
Other Operations includes the following:
Corporate-Owned Life Insurance
The principal products of the COLI business are permanent insurance contracts sold to corporations to provide coverage on the lives of certain employees for financing employer-paid future benefit obligations. Permanent life insurance provides coverage that, when adequately funded, does not expire after a term of years. The contracts are primarily non-participating universal life policies. Fees for universal life insurance products consist primarily of mortality and administrative charges assessed against the policyholder’s fund balance. Interest credited and mortality charges for universal life and mortality charges on variable universal life may be adjusted prospectively to reflect expected interest and mortality experience. To reduce our exposure to large individual losses, we purchase reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers.
Run-off Settlement Annuity Business
Our settlement annuity business is a closed, run-off block of single premium annuity contracts. These contracts are primarily liability settlements with approximately 20% of the liabilities associated with guaranteed payments not contingent on survivorship. Non-guaranteed payments are contingent on the survival of one or more parties involved in the settlement.
18

Run-off Reinsurance
Our reinsurance operations are an inactive business in run-off.
In February 2013, we effectively exited the GMDB and GMIB business by reinsuring 100% of our future exposures, net of retrocessional arrangements in place at that time, up to a specified limit. For additional information regarding this reinsurance transaction and the arrangements that secure our reinsurance recoverables, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Individual Life Insurance and Annuity and Retirement Benefits Businesses
This business includes deferred gains recognized from the 1998 sale of the individual life insurance and annuity business and the 2004 sale of the retirement benefits business. For more information regarding the arrangements that secure our reinsurance recoverables for the retirement benefits business, see Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

DATA, ANALYTICS AND TECHNOLOGY
														
				
Cigna’s investments in data, analytics and technology remain outcome-driven with a focus on driving affordability, simplicity, predictability and growth across all of our business platforms. We deliver value for our clients, customers and stakeholders by creating better health outcomes, improving customer experience and lowering total cost of care.
Data and Analytics. We conduct timely, rigorous and objective research and analysis that informs evidence-based medical and pharmacy benefit management and evaluates the clinical, economic and individual impact of enhanced benefit designs and programs. The combination of our predictive analytics, machine and deep learning capabilities create augmented intelligence that inform decision-making of our health care professionals. We anticipate needs and meet customers where they are, from predicting chronic diseases, to using data to reduce payment and claims fraud, optimizing whole person health and optimizing networks to improve provider access and assist members with care navigation.
We are uniquely positioned to create actionable intelligence by leveraging our rich, integrated data sets and providing differentiating outcomes. During 2020, we were able to leverage both internal and external data related to COVID-19 in order to enhance our ability to predict infections and hospitalizations, inform our operational preparedness and optimize care management to improve health outcomes for our customers, across each of our businesses.
Innovation remains at the forefront of our data, analytic and technology solutions. The advancement of our internal capabilities and strategic partnerships continues to produce new and more effective ways to close gaps in care, optimize treatment and improve outcomes. During 2020, significant continued technology integration delivered cost synergies and drove differentiated innovation in areas such as pharmacy supply chain, specialty pharmacy and retail networks. In the future, we expect continued value realization with focus on customer-facing systems and opportunities for enhanced value in specialty, claims and retail. (See Evernorth Intelligence Solutions section of the "Business - Evernorth" discussion of this Form 10-K for additional information on our intelligent solutions and capabilities).
Our data and analytics talent powers these differentiated capabilities through deep expertise in data management, business analytics, intelligence and data science, with ongoing investments in talent development, analytic and big data technologies enabled by Cigna Technology Services (see below), as well as innovative third party partnerships while ensuring controls are designed to protect sensitive client and customer information.
Technology. Cigna Technology Services enables the strategy by focusing on strong foundational technology services, delivery of a business-aligned technology project portfolio and creating technology solutions to differentiate us in the market. Our innovation continues to support three strategic areas: customer benefit administration and health journey; digital health; and care delivery and management. Our technology drives improved customer experience, increases engagement and advances population health through provider collaboration tools and enables delivery of advanced analytics and predictive intelligence to provide key areas of competitive advantage.
19

We continue to bring new technology-enabled products and services to the market, including biometric stress prediction and focused insights in spaces such as women’s health and opioid addiction. Our digital health focus has shown value across the enterprise by creating engaging experiences that give customers the right information at the right time. This includes an enhanced MyCigna.com experience with new features, including refill and payment options, without leaving the mobile application. Cybersecurity protections, such as multi-factor authentication, have been launched across Cigna’s digital offerings providing better peace of mind and a stronger sense of security.
Our technology team, powered by approximately 7,000 employees and several thousand external resources working with our partners, supports the various information systems essential to our operations including the health benefit claims processing systems and specialty and home delivery pharmacy systems. Uninterrupted point-of-sale electronic retail pharmacy claims processing is a significant operational requirement for our business. We believe we have substantial capacity for growth in our United States pharmacy claims processing facilities. Our pharmacy technology platform allows us to safely, rapidly and accurately adjudicate over one billion adjusted prescriptions annually. Our technology helps retail pharmacies focus on patient care and our real-time safety checks help avoid hundreds of thousands of medication errors annually. The Cigna companies hold over 230 United States patents. We use these patents to protect our proprietary technological advances and to differentiate ourselves in the market.

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT
														
				
Our investment operations provide investment management and related services for our various businesses, including the insurance-related invested assets in our General Account (“General Account Invested Assets”). We acquire or originate, directly or through intermediaries, a broad range of investments including private placement and public securities, commercial mortgage loans, real estate, mezzanine, private equity partnerships and short-term investments. Invested assets also include policy loans that are fully collateralized by insurance policy cash values. We also enter into derivative financial instruments, primarily to minimize the risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our investments. Invested assets are managed primarily by our subsidiaries and, to a lesser extent, external managers with whom our subsidiaries contract. Net investment income is included as a component of adjusted income from operations for each of our segments and Corporate. Realized investment gains (losses) are reported by segment but excluded from adjusted income from operations. For additional information about invested assets, see the “Investment Assets” section of the MD&A and Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We manage our investment portfolios to reflect the underlying characteristics of related insurance and contractholder liabilities and capital requirements, as well as regulatory and tax considerations pertaining to those liabilities and state investment laws. Insurance and contractholder liabilities range from short duration health care products to longer-term obligations associated with life insurance products and the run-off settlement annuity business. Assets supporting these liabilities are managed in segregated investment portfolios to facilitate matching of asset durations and cash flows to those of corresponding liabilities. Investment results are affected by the amount and timing of cash available for investment, economic and market conditions and asset allocation decisions. We routinely monitor and evaluate the status of our investments, obtaining and analyzing relevant investment-specific information and assessing current economic conditions, trends in capital markets and other factors such as industry sector, geographic and property-specific information.
Separate Accounts
Our subsidiaries or external advisors manage invested assets of Separate Accounts on behalf of contractholders, including the Cigna Pension Plan, variable universal life products sold through our corporate-owned life insurance business and other life insurance products. These assets are legally segregated from our other businesses and are not included in General Account Invested Assets. Income, gains and losses generally accrue directly to the contractholders.
Investing in Innovation
In addition to the portfolio investments in our general and separate accounts discussed above that support our insurance operations, we do targeted investing within the health care industry specifically. In 2018, Cigna committed $250 million to Cigna Ventures, our strategic corporate venture fund to invest in promising startups and growth-stage companies who, like us, are unlocking new growth possibilities in health care. Specifically, we invest in companies making groundbreaking progress in three strategic areas: insights / analytics, digital health / experience, care delivery / enablement. To date, Cigna Ventures has six venture capital partners and 14 direct investments. Through these deep partnerships we collaborate, innovate and develop new solutions that address critical market challenges of affordability, predictability and simplicity impacting the people we serve.
20

HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
														
				
Cigna’s mission is to improve the health, well-being and peace of mind of those we serve by enabling affordable, predictable and simple health care. A global healthy and diverse workforce is essential to achieving our mission and our business growth strategies. We are continually investing in our global workforce to support our employees’ health and well-being, further drive diversity and inclusion, provide fair and market-competitive pay and foster their growth and development. As of the end of the 2020 fiscal year, we had approximately 73,700 employees, with 89% of our employees based in the United States. Almost all of our employees are full-time, with less than 2% of employees regularly working fewer than 30 hours per week.
Health, Well-Being and Other Benefits
Tending to our employees’ health, well-being and peace of mind is more than just our mission – it is a critical business imperative for our company. At Cigna, we believe that the provision of health and well-being benefits for our employees is our responsibility as an employer, and should not be outsourced to the government or other third parties. Ensuring that our employees have comprehensive health and well-being benefits is not only the right thing to do from a societal perspective – it is also one of the most important investments in our enterprise that we make each year. That is because we strongly believe that a healthy workforce is more productive, has fewer absences and is a critical enabler for us to drive our business and our strategy forward, thereby creating significant shareholder value. In 2020, Cigna invested approximately 17% of total payroll in health, well-being and other benefits, including life and disability programs, 401(k) contributions and retirement-related benefits for its employees in the United States.
In addition to traditional medical and pharmacy benefits, we provide mental health support to employees, including: employee assistance program (EAP) benefits that are free to all employees and to any member of their household, digital tools that provide access to education and therapy to help individuals build greater resilience and cope with stress, anxiety and depression.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
At Cigna, we take an expansive view of diversity including race, ethnicity, nationality, gender, veteran status, ability, sexual orientation and gender identity. As of the end of the 2020 fiscal year, 70% of our employees were women, and 37% of our employees in the United States were from underrepresented groups (which includes Black/African American, Hispanic or Latinx, Asian, Pacific Islander, American Indian/Alaskan and employees who identified as two races or more).
We are committed to fairness in pay and opportunity for all of our employees. Our compensation practices, which include benchmarking compensation by role, eliminating inquiries regarding applicants’ compensation history from the hiring process and monitoring for potential disparities, promote equity in pay. Our most recent pay equity analysis, conducted in 2020, showed that in the United States female employees at Cigna earn 99.9 cents for every dollar earned by similarly-situated male employees, and employees from underrepresented groups earn 99.7 cents for every dollar earned by similarly-situated white employees.
We are committed to attracting and recruiting key diverse talent across various leadership development programs and other entry level positions with the business. This success is rooted in strategic relationships with diverse student groups at our partner colleges and universities as well as our commitment to multiple national, regional and local organizations, which provide us focused recruiting opportunities with women, the LGBTQA+ community, military veterans and underrepresented minority groups.
Talent Acquisition, Development and Retention
Our talent acquisition and rewards strategies are designed to ensure we attract and retain skilled employees who are engaged in our mission. Our compensation program is rooted in market competitive base salaries and incentives that reward contributions that advance the Company’s strategy and mission. Our online learning platform and career development tools and events offer a broad range of training, education and development resources to all employees. In 2020, U.S. employees on average engaged in 53 hours of learning through these resources. Enterprise leadership development programs include New Leader Experience, Leading with Excellence, Transformative Leadership, Inclusive Leadership and Leaders in Transition. Cigna also offers an education reimbursement program for both full and part-time employees who meet the continuing education criteria. We believe these strategies and programs contribute to employee engagement and retention. In 2020, the voluntary turnover rate was 3.9% for exempt employees in the United States.
21

MISCELLANEOUS
														
				
•Revenues from U.S. Federal Government agencies, under a number of contracts, represent 15% of our consolidated revenues in 2020.
•The Company is not dependent on business from one or a few brokers or agents. In addition, our insurance businesses are generally not committed to accept a fixed portion of the business submitted by independent brokers and agents and generally all such business is subject to approval and acceptance.

REGULATION
														
				
The laws and regulations governing our business continue to increase each year and are subject to frequent change. We are regulated by federal, state and international legislative bodies and agencies, which generally have discretion to issue regulations and interpret and enforce laws and rules. These regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and the interpretation of existing laws and rules also may change periodically. Domestic and international governments continue to enact and consider various legislative and regulatory proposals, which could materially impact the health care system. We expect continued legislative and regulatory debate of issues related to our businesses. As has become increasingly common with public policy reforms in the health services industry, executive, judicial or legislative intervention could alter, slow or eliminate the impact of any proposal following the related regulation’s promulgation, including, for example, the executive order issued in January 2021 regarding a regulatory freeze pending review which may delay or ultimately result in revision or repeal of various regulatory actions taken in 2020.
Many aspects of our business are directly regulated by federal and state laws and administrative agencies, such as the Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), the U.S. Departments of Labor (“DOL”), Treasury and Justice (“DOJ”), the Office of Personnel Management (“OPM”), the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”), the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (“ONC”), state departments of insurance and state boards of pharmacy. Our business practices may also be shaped by judicial decisions.
In addition, aspects of our business are subject to indirect regulation. The self-funded benefit plans sponsored by our U.S. employer clients are regulated under federal law. These self-funded clients expect us to ensure that our administration of their plans complies with the regulatory requirements applicable to them.
Our business operations and the books and records of our regulated businesses are routinely subject to examination and audit at regular intervals by state insurance and HMO regulatory agencies, state boards of pharmacy, CMS, DOL, IRS, OPM and comparable international regulators to assess compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Our operations are also subject to nonroutine examinations, audits and investigations by various state and federal regulatory agencies, generally as the result of a complaint. In addition, we may be implicated in investigations of our clients whose group benefit plans we administer on their behalf. As a result, we routinely receive subpoenas and other demands or requests for information from various state insurance and HMO regulatory agencies, state attorneys general, the HHS Office of Inspector General (“HHS-OIG”), the DOJ, the DOL and other state, federal and international authorities. We may also be called upon by members of the U.S. Congress to provide information, including testifying before Congressional committees and subcommittees, regarding certain of our business practices. If Cigna is determined to have failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations, these examinations, audits, investigations, reviews, subpoenas and demands may:
•result in fines, penalties, injunctions, consent orders or loss of licensure;
•suspend or exclude from participation in government programs or limit our ability to sell or market our products;
•require changes in business practices;
•damage relationships with the agencies that regulate us and affect our ability to secure regulatory approvals necessary for the operation of our business; or
•damage our brand and reputation.
Our international subsidiaries are subject to regulations in international jurisdictions, including in certain cases many regulations similar to the federal and state regulations described below, which are complex and where foreign insurers may face more rigorous regulations than their domestic competitors and may also be affected by geopolitical developments or tensions.
The laws and regulations governing our business, as well as the related interpretations, are subject to frequent change and can be inconsistent or in conflict with each other. Changes in our business environment are likely to continue as elected and appointed officials at the national and state levels continue to propose and enact significant modifications to existing laws and regulations. Even
22

where we believe that we are in compliance with the various laws and regulations, any enforcement actions by federal, state or international government officials alleging non-compliance with these rules and regulations could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business. For a discussion of the risks related to our compliance with these laws and regulations see the Risk Factors section located in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. Management continues to be actively engaged with regulators and policymakers with respect to legislation and rulemaking.
COVID-19-related Regulatory Actions
In response to COVID-19 which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization in early 2020, U.S. federal and state governments have increasingly enacted new legislative and regulatory requirements, as well as provided flexibility to industry participants within existing legal requirements. These regulatory actions primarily provide for:
•client and customer premium relief to avoid the cancellation or non-renewal of policies;
•mandating or requesting waiver of customer cost-sharing and other related costs such as COVID-19 testing or treatment, as well as establishing provider reimbursement and vaccine immunizations coverage requirements;
•extending claims filing deadlines for providers, customers and facilities;
•mandating or encouraging waiver of customer cost-share related to telemedicine services, as well as requiring certain reimbursement levels for telemedicine providers to encourage its utilization;
•increasing the Medicare fee-for-service reimbursement for certain items and services;
•enacting coverage and reimbursement requirements at in-network levels for certain services received from out-of-network providers;
•clarification regarding permissible sharing of information and coordination among health care providers;
•revising or suspending the use of certain medical management procedures; and
•mandating prescription drug benefit administration requirements primarily related to formulary exceptions and restrictions, and prior authorization and prescription drug refill limits.
These actions are in effect for various durations, but generally track the different states of emergency that have been declared at the state and federal level. Of particular significance is the Public Health Emergency declared by the Secretary of HHS on January 31, 2020, which sets the effective period for certain of the requirements established through federal COVID-19 legislation, such as covering testing without cost sharing.
Patient Protection and the Affordable Care Act
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) mandated broad changes to the U.S. health care system, including insured and self-insured health benefit plans and pharmacy benefit managers. Our business model is impacted by the ACA, including our relationships with current and future producers and health care providers, products, service providers and technologies. The provisions of the ACA imposed, among other things, certain assessments on health insurers, created health insurance exchanges for individuals and small group employers to purchase insurance coverage and implemented minimum medical loss ratios (“MLRs”) for our Medicare and commercial businesses. Certain states have adopted MLR requirements applicable to our commercial businesses that are more stringent than those established by the ACA. Other provisions of the ACA in effect include reduced Medicare Advantage payment rates, the requirement to cover preventive services with no enrollee cost-sharing, banning the use of lifetime and annual limits on the dollar amount of essential health benefits, increasing restrictions on rescinding coverage, extending coverage of dependents up to age 26, restrictions on differential pricing, enforcement mechanisms and rules related to health care fraud and abuse enforcement activities and certain pharmacy benefit transparency requirements. The employer mandate requires employers with 50 or more full-time employees to offer affordable health insurance that provides minimum value (each as defined under the ACA) to full-time employees and their dependents, including children up to age 26, or be subject to penalties based on employer size. The ACA also changed certain tax laws to effectively limit tax deductions for certain employee compensation paid by health insurers. In December 2019, the federal government repealed the non-deductible health insurance industry fee effective for 2021, as well as repealing the enacted but never implemented 40% excise tax on certain employer-sponsored coverage (known as the “Cadillac Tax”) and the medical device tax.
In 2018, the DOL issued final rules that revised the definition of “employer” under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) to make it easier for employers, including self-employed individuals, to form bona fide employer groups, all of whose employees would be counted in determining whether they were small or large groups for purposes of the ACA. While the regulation of these groupings by state insurance departments is not affected by the DOL’s final association health plan rules, the final rules have resulted in an increase in interest among employers, associations, producers and benefit consultants in forming new groupings for purposes of offering insured or self-funded group health plans.
23

Since its adoption, there have been several attempts to repeal or limit the utility of the ACA. Certain insurers, including Cigna, have sued the federal government for failure to pay cost-sharing subsidies (“CSR”) under the ACA. In the first set of consolidated appeals, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision on August 14, 2020, finding that (i) the CSR reimbursement provision of the ACA imposes an obligation on the government to pay, but (ii) the insurers’ damages must be reduced by the amount of additional premium tax credit payments that each insurer received as a result of the government’s termination of CSR payments. Our premium rates for the 2018, 2019 and 2020 plan years reflected a lack of government funding for cost-sharing reduction subsidies. The insurers filed petitions for rehearing en banc in the Federal Circuit and the court denied those petitions. On February 19, 2021, two insurers filed a petition seeking U.S. Supreme Court review. The matter remains unresolved and our case is stayed pending final resolution of the consolidated appeals, including the petition for writ of certiorari in the U. S. Supreme Court. In December 2017, U.S. tax reform legislation was signed into law that, among other things, reduced the “individual mandate” penalty for individuals without health insurance to zero dollars, effective January 1, 2019. As a result of this change, a federal district court has ruled that the “individual mandate” is unconstitutional and that the entire law must be struck down. On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit agreed that the “individual mandate” is unconstitutional but ordered the district court to reexamine whether the other provisions of the ACA can remain in effect. The California-led states and the U.S. House of Representatives filed petitions seeking to appeal the Fifth Circuit's ruling to the U.S. Supreme Court. The U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments on the appeals on November 10, 2020 and a decision is expected by the end of June 2021.
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding accounting policies around the risk mitigation programs under the ACA.
Medicare and Medicaid Regulations
Through our subsidiaries, we offer individual and group Medicare Advantage, Medicare Prescription Drug (“Part D”) and Medicare Supplement products. We also provide Medicare Part D-related products and services to other Medicare Part D sponsors, Medicare Advantage Prescription Drug Plans and employers and clients offering Medicare Part D benefits to Medicare Part D eligible beneficiaries. As part of our Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D business, we contract with CMS to provide services to Medicare beneficiaries. As a result, our ability to obtain payment (and the determination of the amount of such payments), market to, enroll and retain customers and expand into new service areas is subject to compliance with CMS’ numerous and complex regulations and requirements that are frequently modified and subject to administrative discretion, review and enforcement. We offer Medicaid and dual-eligible products and participate in state Medicaid programs directly or indirectly through our clients who are Medicaid managed care contractors. We also perform certain Medicaid subrogation services and certain delegated services, including utilization management, for clients, which are regulated by federal and state laws. Our Medicaid and dual-eligible products are regulated by CMS and state Medicaid agencies audit our performance to determine compliance with contracts and regulations.
CMS evaluates Medicare Advantage plans and Part D plans under its “Star Rating” system. The Star Rating system considers various measures adopted by CMS, including, for example, quality of care, preventive services, chronic illness management, coverage determinations and appeals and customer satisfaction. A plan’s Star Rating affects its image in the market and plans that perform very well are able to offer enhanced benefits and market more effectively and for longer periods of time than other plans. Medicare Advantage plans’ quality-bonus payments are determined by the Star Rating, with plans receiving a rating of four or more stars eligible for such payments. The Star Rating system is subject to change annually by CMS, which may make it more difficult to achieve and maintain four stars or greater. For example, beginning with Star Ratings for payment year 2024, CMS will place more emphasis on patient experience survey-based measures which could reduce Star Ratings predictability year over year. Additionally, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic’s impact on 2020 care patterns and utilization, CMS finalized rules applying relief to Medicare Advantage and Part D Plan Star Ratings for payment year 2023 by utilizing the higher of the payment year 2023 or 2022 measure level Star Ratings.
CMS uses a risk-adjustment model which adjusts premiums paid to Medicare Advantage plans according to customers’ health status. The risk-adjustment model generally pays more where a plan's membership is expected to have increased costs because of the health status of its members. Under this model, rates paid to Medicare Advantage plans are based on actuarially determined bids, which include a process whereby our prospective payments are based on our estimated cost of providing standard Medicare-covered benefits to an enrollee with a “national average risk profile.” That baseline payment amount is adjusted to reflect the health status of our enrolled membership. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, Medicare Advantage plans must collect and submit the necessary diagnosis code information from hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient and physician providers to CMS within prescribed deadlines. We generally rely on providers, including certain providers who are employees, to appropriately document their claims and other submissions with appropriate diagnoses from which we extract hierarchical condition codes to submit to CMS as the basis for our payments received under the actuarial risk-adjustment model. The CMS risk-adjustment model uses the diagnosis data to calculate the risk-adjusted premium payment to the plans, which CMS adjusts for coding pattern differences between the health plans and the government fee-for-service program. In 2012, CMS released a payment methodology that provided for sample audit error rates to be
24

extrapolated to the entire Medicare Advantage contract after comparing audit results with a similar audit of Medicare Fee for Service (the “FFS Adjuster”) and applying an FFS Adjuster to establish actuarial equivalency in payment rates as required by the Medicare statute. However, a methodology to calculate the FFS Adjuster was not finalized and CMS has, to date, not completed any Risk Adjustment Data Validation (“RADV”) audits using extrapolation.
On November 1, 2018, CMS released a proposed rule titled “Proposed Rule on Changes to MA and Part D Programs for CY 2020 and 2021” that would revise its RADV methodology for RADV audits of contract year 2011 and all subsequent years by, among other things, extrapolating the error rate related to RADV audit findings without applying the FFS Adjuster. If the proposed rule is adopted in its current form, it could result in some combination of degraded plan benefits, higher monthly premiums and reduced choice for the population served by all MA insurers. The Company, along with other Medicare Advantage organizations and additional interested parties, submitted comments to CMS on the proposed rule as part of the notice-and-comment rulemaking process. The comment period concluded on August 28, 2019 and CMS is expected to act by November 2021. RADV audits for our contract years 2011 through 2015 are currently in process. It is uncertain whether CMS will finalize the rule as proposed. See below under “Federal and State Oversight of Government-Sponsored Health Care Programs” for a discussion of RADV audits.
Coverage of prescription drugs under Medicare Part D is also regulated by CMS and our contracts with CMS contain provisions for risk sharing and certain payments for prescription drug costs for which we are not at risk. These provisions affect our ultimate payments from CMS. For example, premiums from CMS are subject to risk corridor payments which compare costs targeted in our annual bids with actual prescription costs, limited to actual costs that would have been incurred under the standard coverage as defined by CMS. Variances exceeding certain thresholds may result in CMS making additional payments to us or require us to refund to CMS a portion of the payments we received (known as a risk corridor).
We expect CMS, HHS-OIG, DOJ and other federal agencies to continue to closely scrutinize each component of the Medicare Advantage program and modify the terms and requirements of the program. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in significant consequences, including fines and penalties, enrollment sanctions, exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limitations on expansion and criminal penalties.
False Claims Act and Anti-Kickback Laws
Our products and services are also subject to the federal False Claims Act (the “False Claims Act”) and federal and state anti-kickback laws. Additionally, the federal government has made investigating and prosecuting health care fraud, waste and abuse a priority. Fraud, waste and abuse prohibitions encompass a wide range of activities, including kickbacks in return for customer referrals, billing for unnecessary medical services, upcoding and improper marketing. The regulations and contractual requirements in this area are complex, frequently modified and subject to administrative discretion and judicial interpretation.
False Claims Act and Related Criminal Provisions. The False Claims Act imposes civil penalties on any person who makes or causes to be made claims or records or statements that he or she knows or should know are false with respect to governmental programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to obtain reimbursement or for failure to return overpayments. Private individuals may bring qui tam or “whistleblower” suits against providers under the False Claims Act, which authorizes the payment of a portion of any recovery to the individual bringing suit. The ACA amended the federal anti-kickback laws to state any claim submitted to a federal or state health care program that violates the anti-kickback laws is also a false claim under the False Claims Act. The False Claims Act generally provides for the imposition of civil penalties and for treble damages, creating the possibility of substantial financial liabilities. Criminal statutes similar to the False Claims Act provide that if a corporation is convicted of presenting a claim or making a statement it knows to be false, fictitious or fraudulent to any federal agency, the corporation may be fined. Conviction under these statutes may also result in exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs. Many states have also enacted laws similar to the False Claims Act, some of which may include criminal penalties, substantial fines and treble damages.
Anti-Kickback and Referral Laws. Subject to certain exceptions and “safe harbors,” the federal anti-kickback statute generally prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully paying, receiving or offering any payment or other remuneration to induce a person to purchase, lease, order or arrange for items (including prescription drugs) or services reimbursable in whole or in part under Medicare, Medicaid or another federal health care program. Many states have similar laws, some of which are not limited to items or services paid for with government funds. Sanctions for violating these federal and state anti-kickback laws may include criminal and civil fines and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs.
Anti-kickback laws have been cited as a partial basis, along with state consumer protection laws described below, for investigations and multistate settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies or payors in connection with “product conversion” or promotion programs. Other anti-kickback and referral laws may also be applicable including criminal and
25

civil laws restricting illegal kickbacks and conflicts of interest in connection with an ERISA plan, the federal “Stark Law,” and various state anti-kickback restrictions.
In November 2020, HHS and HHS-OIG released a final rule which eliminates an anti-kickback regulatory safe harbor protection for price concessions, including rebates, that are offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers to plan sponsors or pharmacy benefit managers under the Medicare Part D program. The final rule creates two new safe harbors: (i) for price reductions by manufacturers to plan sponsors under Medicare Part D and Medicaid managed care organizations that are reflected at the time of dispense and (ii) for fixed-fee service arrangements between manufacturers and pharmacy benefit managers. HHS-OIG has temporarily postponed the effective date of the new safe harbors to March 22, 2021. Additionally, HHS recently agreed to postpone the elimination of the aforementioned regulatory safe harbor to January 1, 2023.
Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law. The federal civil monetary penalty statute provides for civil monetary penalties against any person who gives something of value to a Medicare or Medicaid program beneficiary that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider for Medicare or Medicaid items or services. Under this law, our wholly-owned home delivery pharmacies, specialty pharmacies and home health providers are restricted from offering certain items of value to influence a Medicare or Medicaid patient’s use of services. The ACA also includes several civil monetary provisions, such as penalties for the failure to report and return a known overpayment and failure to grant timely access to the HHS-OIG under certain circumstances.
Federal and State Oversight of Government-Sponsored Health Care Programs
Participation in government-sponsored health care programs subjects us to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations and risks associated with audits conducted under these programs. These audits may occur years after the provision of services. Risks include potential fines and penalties, restrictions on our ability to participate or expand our presence in certain programs and restrictions on marketing our plans. For example, with respect to our Medicare Advantage business, CMS and the HHS-OIG perform audits to determine a health plan’s compliance with federal regulations and contractual obligations, including program audits and Risk Adjustment Data Validation Audits, which focus on compliance with proper coding practices. Certain of our contracts are currently subject to RADV audits by CMS and the HHS-OIG. CMS has announced that its goal is to subject all Medicare Advantage contracts to either a comprehensive or a targeted RADV audit for each contract year. The DOJ is also currently conducting an industry-wide investigation of the risk adjustment data submission practices and business processes, including medical chart reviews and health exams, of Cigna and a number of other Medicare Advantage organizations under Medicare Parts C and D. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
For our Medicare Part D business, compliance with certain contractual provisions and regulatory requirements is subject to review by Recovery Audit Contractor audits in which third-party contractors conduct post-payment reviews on a contingency fee basis to detect and correct improper payments.
Government Procurement Regulations
We have a contract with the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”), which subjects us to applicable Federal Acquisition Regulations (“FAR”) and the DoD FAR Supplement, which govern federal government contracts. Further, there are other federal and state laws applicable to our DoD arrangement and our arrangements with other clients that may be subject to government procurement regulations. In addition, certain of our clients participate as contracting carriers in the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program administered by the OPM, which includes various pharmacy benefit management standards.
Employee Retirement Income Security Act
Our domestic subsidiaries sell most of their products and services to sponsors of employee benefit plans that are governed by ERISA. ERISA is a complex set of federal laws and regulations enforced by the IRS and the DOL, as well as the courts. ERISA regulates certain aspects of the relationship between us, the employers that maintain employee welfare benefit plans subject to ERISA and participants in such plans. Certain of our domestic subsidiaries are also subject to requirements imposed by ERISA affecting claim payment and appeals procedures for individual health insurance and insured and self-insured group health plans and for the insured dental, disability, life and accident plans we administer. Certain of our domestic subsidiaries also may contractually agree to comply with these requirements on behalf of the self-insured dental, disability, life and accident plans they administer. We believe the conduct of our pharmacy benefit management business is not generally subject to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA. However, there can be no assurances that the DOL may not assert that pharmacy benefit managers are fiduciaries. From time to time, states have considered legislation to declare a pharmacy benefit manager or health benefit manager a fiduciary with respect to its clients.
26

Plans subject to ERISA can also be subject to state laws and the legal question of whether and to what extent ERISA preempts a state law will continue to be subject to court interpretation, including by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Privacy, Security and Data Standards Regulations
Many of our activities involve the receipt or use of confidential health and other personal information. In addition, we use aggregated and de-identified data for our own research and analysis purposes and, in some cases, provide access to such de-identified data, or analytics created from such data, to pharmaceutical manufacturers and third-party data aggregators. We may also use such information to create analytic models designed to predict, and potentially improve, outcomes and patient care. There are also industry standards for handling credit card data known as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which are a set of requirements designed to help ensure that entities that process, store or transmit credit card information maintain a secure environment. Certain states have incorporated these requirements into state laws or enacted other requirements for using and disclosing personal information.
The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing regulations (“HIPAA”) impose minimum standards on health insurers, pharmacy benefit managers, HMOs, health plans, health care providers and clearinghouses for the privacy and security of protected health information. HIPAA regulations may also hold us liable for violations by our business associates (e.g., entities that provide services to health plans and providers). HIPAA also established rules that standardize the format and content of certain electronic transactions, including, but not limited to, eligibility and claims. To the extent insurers offer plans through a public exchange, participants and their downstream entities such as pharmacy benefit managers must adhere to privacy and security standards for personally identifiable information and to impose standards that are at least as protective as those the exchange has implemented for itself. These standards may differ from, and be more stringent than, HIPAA.
The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”) imposes additional contracting requirements for covered entities, the extension of privacy and security provisions to business associates, the requirement to provide notification to various parties in the event of a data breach of protected health information and enhanced financial penalties for HIPAA violations, including potential criminal penalties for individuals. In the conduct of our business, depending on the circumstances, we may act as either a covered entity or a business associate.
The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and its implementing regulations generally place restrictions on the disclosure of nonpublic information to nonaffiliated third parties, and requires financial institutions, including insurers, to provide customers with notice regarding how their nonpublic personal information is used, including an opportunity to “opt out” of certain disclosures. State departments of insurance and certain federal agencies adopted implementing regulations as required by federal law.
State and local authorities are increasingly focused on protecting individuals from identity theft and a number of states have adopted comprehensive data security laws and regulations requiring, among other things, certain minimum data security standards and security breach notifications that may apply to us in certain circumstances, as well as certain limitations on access to and use of personal information. Neither HIPAA nor the Gramm-Leach-Bliley privacy regulations preempt more stringent state laws and regulations which may differ in approach and enforcement. The California Consumer Privacy Act, which went into effect in January 2020, provides additional privacy rights for California residents although it generally does not apply to certain regulated data such as information covered by HIPAA. In November 2020, California further expanded privacy rights for California residents by enacting the California Privacy Rights Act which includes additional protections on sensitive personal information, creates new individual rights for residents and imposes additional requirements for those entities collecting personal information of California residents and their service providers beginning in 2023. We anticipate federal and state regulators to continue to enact legislation related to privacy and cybersecurity.
The Cybersecurity Information Sharing Act of 2015 (“CISA”) encourages organizations to share cyber threat indicators with the federal government and, among other things, directs HHS to develop a set of voluntary cybersecurity best practices for organizations in the health care industry. States have also begun to issue regulations specifically related to cybersecurity, which may differ or conflict from state to state. In October 2017, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”), an organization of state insurance regulators, adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law that creates rules for insurers and other covered entities addressing data security, investigation and notification of breaches. This includes maintaining an information security program based on ongoing risk assessment, overseeing third-party service providers, investigating data breaches and notifying regulators of a cybersecurity event. As the model law is intended to serve as model legislation only, states will need to enact legislation for the model law to become mandatory and enforceable. We will continue to monitor states’ activity regarding cybersecurity regulation.
HHS, including the ONC, the Office for Civil Rights and CMS, has enacted regulations, and proposed additional regulations, to support the seamless and secure access, exchange and use of electronic health information by or between patients, enrollees and entities such as payers and health care providers. These regulations include, among others, proposed changes to HIPAA designed to
27

promote greater patient access and control over health information maintained by health plans and health care providers and improve information sharing for case management and care coordination. Other interoperability regulations prohibit information blocking by certain entities and require certain regulated plans to make specified patient, clinical and plan-related data available to enrollees via interoperable technology and applications. These regulations apply to a variety of entities, including health plans like Medicare plans and qualified health plans, as well as health care providers, certified health information technology developers and health information networks and exchanges and generally require significant enhancements to information technology and data governance practices. The regulations and proposals demonstrate an increased interest in information sharing and will impact how industry participants, including us, comply with disclosure requirements and share information with individuals and other healthcare organizations. We continue to monitor developments and to submit comments on proposed regulations where appropriate.
In addition, international laws, rules and regulations governing the use and disclosure of personal information can be more stringent than in the United States, and they vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which became effective May 2018, enhanced or created obligations regarding the handling of personal data relating to European residents, such as regarding notices, data protection impact assessments and individual rights, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance than the previous European Directive or laws. In addition, many countries outside of Europe where we conduct business have implemented or may implement data protection laws and regulations, some of which include requirements modeled after those in the GDPR. Some non-U.S. jurisdictions are also instituting data residency regulations requiring that data be maintained within the respective jurisdiction or otherwise restricting transfer of personal data across borders unless specified regulatory requirements are met.
See Part I. Item 1A, “Risk Factors” for a discussion of the risks related to compliance with privacy and security regulations.
Consumer Protection Laws
We engage in direct-to-consumer activities and are increasingly offering mobile and web-based solutions to our customers. We are therefore subject to federal and state regulations applicable to electronic communications and other consumer protection laws and regulations, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and the CAN-SPAM Act. The FTC is also increasingly exercising its enforcement authority in the areas of consumer privacy and data security, with a focus on web-based, mobile data and “big data.” Federal consumer protection laws may also apply in some instances to privacy and security practices related to personally identifiable information.
State and federal policymakers have taken actions intended to increase transparency and predictability of health care costs for consumers. For example, in October 2020, the HHS, the DOL and the Department of the Treasury issued a final rule that requires most group health plans and health insurance issuers in the individual and group markets to disclose price and cost-sharing information for all items and services to participants and enrollees. The cost-sharing information requirements under the rule take effect in a phased approach beginning January 1, 2023. In addition to providing personalized cost-sharing information, beginning January 1, 2022, health plans and health insurers must also publicly disclose (i) in-network provider negotiated rates, (ii) historical out-of-network allowed amounts and billed charges and (iii) in-network negotiated rates and historical net prices for all covered prescription drugs. Beginning in 2021, insurers will be able to receive credit in their MLR calculations for certain savings they share with enrollees. Separately, in December 2020, Congress passed the No Surprises Act which prohibits health care providers, in certain situations, from balance billing the patient and requires that they work directly with insurers to agree on out-of-network reimbursement, including utilizing an independent dispute resolution process outlined in the Act. The Act is effective January 1, 2022 and we expect regulations implementing the Act to be issued starting in 2021. Many states already have addressed balance billing, or surprise medical bills. These laws and regulations vary in their approach, resulting in different impacts on the health care system as a whole.
Additionally, most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations and multistate settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to retail pharmacies in connection with product conversion programs. Such statutes have also been cited as the basis for claims or investigations by state attorneys general relative to privacy and data security.
Office of Foreign Assets Control Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering
We are also subject to regulation by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury that administers and enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries and regimes based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals. Certain of our products are subject to the Department of the Treasury anti-money laundering regulations under the Bank Secrecy Act. In addition, we are subject to similar regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate.
Corporate Practice of Medicine and Other Laws
Many states in which our subsidiaries operate limit the practice of medicine to licensed individuals or professional organizations comprised of licensed individuals, and business corporations generally may not exercise control over the medical decisions of
28

physicians. Statutes and regulations relating to the practice of medicine, fee-splitting between physicians and referral sources and similar issues vary widely from state to state. Under management agreements between certain of our subsidiaries and physician-owned professional groups, these groups retain sole responsibility for all medical decisions, as well as for hiring and managing physicians and other licensed health care providers, developing operating policies and procedures, implementing professional standards and controls and maintaining malpractice insurance. We believe that our health services operations comply with applicable state statutes regarding corporate practice of medicine, fee-splitting and similar issues. However, any enforcement actions by governmental officials alleging noncompliance with these statutes could subject us to penalties or restructuring or reorganization of our business.
Laws and Legislation Affecting Plan Design and Pharmacy Network Access
Some states have enacted laws that prohibit managed care plan sponsors from implementing certain restrictive benefit plan design features, and many states have laws or have introduced legislation to regulate various aspects of managed care plans, including provisions relating to the pharmacy benefit. For example, some states, under so-called “freedom of choice” legislation, provide customers of the plan may not be required to use network providers, but must instead be provided with benefits even if they choose to use non-network providers. Some states have also enacted legislation that can negatively impact the use of cost-saving network configurations for plan sponsors. Other states have enacted legislation purporting to prohibit health plans from offering customers financial incentives for use of home delivery pharmacies. Medicare and some states have issued guidance and regulations that limit our ability to fill or refill prescriptions electronically submitted by a physician to our home delivery pharmacy without first obtaining consent from the patient. Such restrictions generate additional costs and limit our ability to maximize efficiencies, which could otherwise be gained through the electronic prescription and automatic refill processes. Legislation has been introduced in some states to prohibit or restrict therapeutic intervention, or to require coverage of all Food and Drug Administration approved drugs. Other states mandate coverage of certain benefits or conditions, and require health plan coverage of specific drugs if deemed medically necessary by the prescribing physician. States are also standardizing the process for, and restricting the use of, utilization management rules and shortening the time frames within which prescription drug prior authorization determinations must be made. Even where states do not regulate pharmacy benefit or utilization management companies directly, these laws will apply to many of our clients, including managed care organizations and health insurers.
Additionally, Medicare Part D and a majority of states now have laws, regulations or some form of legislation affecting our ability, or our clients’ ability, to limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove a provider from a network. Such laws, regulations or legislation may require us or our clients to admit any retail pharmacy or provider willing to meet the plan’s terms and conditions for network participation (“any willing provider”) or may direct that a provider may not be removed from a network except in compliance with certain procedures (“due process”).
Certain states have laws prohibiting certain pharmacy benefit management clients from imposing additional co-payments, deductibles, limitations on benefits, or other conditions on covered individuals utilizing a retail pharmacy when the same conditions are not otherwise imposed on covered individuals utilizing home delivery pharmacies. However, the laws require the retail pharmacy to agree to the same reimbursement amounts and terms and conditions as are imposed on the home delivery pharmacies. An increase in the number of prescriptions filled at retail pharmacies may have a negative impact on the number of prescriptions filled through home delivery.
Pharmacy Benefit Management and Drug Pricing Regulation
Our pharmacy benefit management services are subject to numerous laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern, and proposed legislation and regulations may govern, critical practices, including disclosure, receipt and retention of rebates and other payments received from pharmaceutical manufacturers; certain pharmacy contracting practices including disclosure of cost information to customers; the receipt and retention of transmission fees from contracted pharmacies; use of, administration of, or changes to drug formularies, the use and disclosure of maximum allowable cost ("MAC") pricing, or clinical programs; “most favored nation” pricing, which provides that a pharmacy participating in a specific government program must give the program the best price the pharmacy makes available to any third-party plan; disclosure of data to third parties; drug utilization management practices; the level of duty a pharmacy benefit manager owes its clients or customers; configuration of pharmacy networks; the operations of our subsidiary pharmacies; disclosure of negotiated provider reimbursement rates; disclosure of negotiated drug rebates, calculation of certain customer cost-share for prescription drug claims; pricing that includes differential or spread (i.e., a difference between the drug price charged to the plan sponsor by a pharmacy benefit manager and the price paid by the manager to the dispensing provider); disclosure of fees associated with administrative service agreements and patient care programs that are attributable to customers’ drug utilization; and registration or licensing of pharmacy benefit managers.
We expect federal and state governments to continue to prioritize means of addressing out-of-pocket costs for consumers, particularly related to prescription drug costs. Policy proposals, issued via regulation or legislation, vary broadly in their approaches to achieve that
29

goal. At the federal level, several executive orders were issued in 2020. Although the orders did not contain any policy changes that take effect immediately, they directed agencies to pursue regulations intended to expand access to affordable prescription drug medication through various methods. Resulting regulations from HHS and its agencies: outlined paths for certain prescription drugs to be imported from Canada under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, effective November 30, 2020; amended the anti-kickback safe harbors to eliminate the regulatory safe harbor protection for price concessions, including rebates, that are offered by pharmaceutical manufacturers to plan sponsors or pharmacy benefit managers under the Medicare Part D program effective January 2023 and created new safe harbors related to point-of-sale price reductions and fixed-fee service arrangements, as described above under the heading “Anti-Kickback and Referral Laws;” issued rules intended to implement a program to make insulin and epinephrine available at participating federally qualified health centers at pricing under the Public Health Service Act Section 340B program effective March 22, 2021; and established a demonstration of the most favored nation international pricing model, an approach to international reference pricing, for Medicare Part B drugs which was subsequently halted by court intervention. As noted earlier, the executive order issued in January 2021 regarding a regulatory freeze pending review may delay or ultimately result in revision or repeal of various actions taken in response to the 2020 executive orders.
Additionally, proposals at the federal and state levels consider increased regulation of pharmacy benefit managers and health plans as a means to limit consumer out of pocket costs, including proposing to limit the use of various pharmacy benefit management tools; mandating the treatment of fees, discounts or financing mechanisms that otherwise are set in private contractual terms; increasing supply chain transparency; expanding regulatory requirements or definitions of fiduciaries; or mandating plan benefit designs that cap consumer out-of-pocket expense.
Some states have enacted statutes regulating the use of MAC pricing. These statutes, referred to as “MAC Transparency Laws,” generally require pharmacy benefit managers to disclose specific information related to MAC pricing to pharmacies and provide certain appeal rights for pharmacies. MAC Transparency Laws also restrict the application of MAC and may require operational changes to maintain compliance with the law. Some states have also enacted laws regulating pharmacy pricing and protecting the profitability of pharmacies for dispensing certain MAC-priced drugs. Some states have enacted laws requiring that the customer cost-share for a prescription drug claim not exceed certain price points, such as the pharmacy’s usual and customary charge or its contracted reimbursement for the drug. In a recent Supreme Court decision, the Court found that certain MAC Transparency Laws may be applied by states to ERISA plans in addition to health plans regulated by the applicable state. We continue to assess the impact of the decision on other state laws seeking to regulate pharmacy benefit management services.
In March 2018, the NAIC adopted changes to the Health Carrier Prescription Drug Benefit Management Model Act. The changes address issues relating to (i) transparency, accuracy and disclosure regarding prescription drug formularies and formulary changes during a policy year; (ii) accessibility of prescription drug benefits using a variety of pharmacy options; and (iii) tiered prescription drug formularies and discriminatory benefit design. While the actions of the NAIC do not have the force of law, they are used as a template to influence states to adopt laws based on the model legislation. An enhanced NAIC model act on pharmacy benefit manager licensure and regulation was adopted by a subgroup of the NAIC subject to a thirty day comment period with further consideration expected to occur in 2021.
The federal Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires participating drug manufacturers to provide rebates on all drugs reimbursed through state Medicaid programs, including through Medicaid managed care organizations. Manufacturers of brand-name products must provide a rebate equivalent to the greater of (a) 23.1% of the average manufacturer price (“AMP”) paid by retail community pharmacies or by wholesalers for certain drugs distributed to retail community pharmacies, or (b) the difference between AMP and the “best price” available to essentially any customer other than the Medicaid program and certain other government programs, with certain exceptions. We negotiate rebates with drug manufacturers and, in certain circumstances, sell services to drug manufacturers. Investigations are being and have been conducted by certain government entities which call into question whether a drug’s “best price” was properly calculated and reported with respect to rebates paid by the manufacturers to the Medicaid programs. We are not responsible for such calculations, reports or payments.
Pharmacy Regulation
Our home delivery and specialty pharmacies also subject us to extensive federal, state and local regulation. The practice of pharmacy is generally regulated at the state level by state boards of pharmacy. We are licensed to do business as a pharmacy in the states in which our pharmacies are located. Most of the states into which we deliver pharmaceuticals have laws that require out-of-state home delivery pharmacies to register with, or be licensed by, the board of pharmacy or a similar regulatory body in the state. These states generally permit the pharmacy to follow the laws of the state where the pharmacy is located, although some states require compliance with certain laws in that state as it impacts or relates to drugs distributed or dispensed into that state.
30

Our various pharmacy facilities also provide services under certain Medicare and state Medicaid programs. Participation in these programs requires our pharmacies to comply with the applicable Medicare and Medicaid provider rules and regulations, and exposes the pharmacies to various changes the federal and state governments may impose regarding reimbursement methodologies and amounts to be paid to participating providers under these programs. In addition, several of our pharmacy facilities are participating providers under Medicare Part D and are required to adhere to certain requirements applicable to Medicare Part D. Additionally, we are subject to CMS rules regarding the administration of our Medicare plans and pricing between our plans and related parties, including our pharmacy business.
Other statutes and regulations affect our home delivery and specialty pharmacy operations, including the federal and state anti-kickback laws and the federal civil monetary penalty law described above. Federal and state statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising, adulteration and security of prescription drugs and the dispensing of controlled substances and certain of our pharmacies must register with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and individual state controlled substance authorities. The FTC requires mail order sellers of goods generally to engage in truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the product to be sold, to fill mail orders within thirty days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. The United States Postal Service also has significant statutory authority to restrict the delivery of drugs and medicines through the mail.
Financial Reporting, Internal Control and Corporate Governance
Regulators closely monitor the financial condition of licensed insurance companies and HMOs. States regulate the form and content of statutory financial statements, the type and concentration of permitted investments and corporate governance over financial reporting. Our insurance and HMO subsidiaries are required to file periodic financial reports and schedules with regulators in most of the jurisdictions in which they do business as well as annual financial statements audited by independent registered public accounting firms. Certain insurance and HMO subsidiaries are required to file an annual report of internal control over financial reporting with most jurisdictions in which they do business. Insurance and HMO subsidiaries’ operations and financial statements are subject to examination by such agencies. Many states have expanded regulations relating to corporate governance and internal control activities of insurance and HMO subsidiaries as a result of model regulations adopted by the NAIC with elements similar to corporate governance and risk oversight disclosure requirements under federal securities laws.
Guaranty Associations, Indemnity Funds, Risk Pools and Administrative Funds
Most states and certain non-U.S. jurisdictions require insurance companies to support guaranty associations or indemnity funds that are established to pay claims on behalf of insolvent insurance companies. Some states have similar laws relating to HMOs and other payors, such as consumer operated and oriented plans (co-ops) established under the ACA. In the United States, these associations levy assessments on member insurers licensed in a particular state to pay such claims. Certain states require HMOs to participate in guaranty funds, special risk pools and administrative funds. For additional information about guaranty funds and other assessments, see Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Certain states continue to require health insurers and HMOs to participate in assigned risk plans, joint underwriting authorities, pools or other residual market mechanisms to cover risks not acceptable under normal underwriting standards, although some states have eliminated these requirements as a result of the ACA.
Solvency and Capital Requirements
Many states have adopted some form of the NAIC model solvency-related laws and risk-based capital (“RBC”) rules for life and health insurance companies and HMOs. The RBC rules recommend a minimum level of capital depending on the types and quality of investments held, the types of business written and the types of liabilities incurred. If the ratio of the insurer’s adjusted surplus to its RBC falls below statutorily required minimums, the insurer could be subject to regulatory actions ranging from increased scrutiny to conservatorship.
In addition, various non-U.S. jurisdictions prescribe minimum surplus requirements that are based upon solvency, liquidity and reserve coverage measures. Our HMOs and life and health insurance subsidiaries, as well as non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries, are compliant with applicable RBC and non-U.S. surplus rules.
The Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (“ORSA”), adopted by the NAIC, provides requirements and principles for maintaining a group solvency assessment and a risk management framework and reflects a broader approach to U.S. insurance regulation. ORSA includes a requirement to file an annual ORSA Summary Report in the lead state of domicile. To date, an overwhelming majority of the states have adopted the same or similar versions of ORSA. We file our ORSA report annually as required.
31

Holding Company Laws
Our domestic insurance companies and certain of our HMOs are subject to state laws regulating subsidiaries of insurance holding companies. Under such laws, certain dividends, distributions and other transactions between an insurance company or an HMO subsidiary and its affiliates may require notification to, or approval by, one or more state insurance commissioners. In addition, the holding company acts of states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled restrict the ability of any person to obtain control of an insurance company or HMO subsidiary without prior regulatory approval. State holding company laws and regulations also subject our insurance companies and certain HMO subsidiaries to additional regulatory scrutiny related to their oversight of affiliates performing regulated services on behalf of the insurance company or HMO and require the Company to file an annual Enterprise Risk Report, which summarizes material risks that could pose enterprise risk to the insurance company subsidiaries.
Marketing, Advertising and Products
In most states, our insurance companies and HMO subsidiaries are required to certify compliance with applicable advertising regulations on an annual basis. Our insurance companies and HMO subsidiaries are also required by most states to file and secure regulatory approval of products prior to the marketing, advertising and sale of such products.
Licensing and Registration Requirements
Our insurance companies and HMO subsidiaries must be licensed by the jurisdictions in which they conduct business. Additionally, certain subsidiaries contract to provide claim administration, utilization management and other related services for the administration of self-insured benefit plans. These subsidiaries may be subject to state third-party administration and other licensing requirements and regulation, as well as third-party accreditation requirements.
We have received full accreditation for Utilization Review Accreditation Commission Pharmacy Benefit Management version 2.2 Standards, which includes quality standards for drug utilization management, and select subsidiaries have received full accreditation for Utilization Review Accreditation Commission for Health Utilization Management version 7.2, which includes quality standards for medical utilization management.
Certain states have adopted pharmacy benefit management registration, licensure or disclosure laws. In addition to registration laws, some states have adopted legislation mandating disclosure of various aspects of our financial practices, including those concerning pharmaceutical company revenue, as well as prescribing processes for prescription switching programs and client and provider audit terms.
Our international subsidiaries are often required to be licensed when entering new markets or starting new operations in certain jurisdictions. The licensure requirements for these subsidiaries vary by country and are subject to change.
International Regulations
Our operations outside the United States expose us to laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies and regulators, including those related to the provision of insurance, financial and other disclosures, the provision of health care-related services, corporate governance, privacy, data protection, data mining, data transfer, intellectual property, labor and employment, consumer protection, direct-to-consumer communications activities, tax, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. Foreign laws and rules may include requirements that are different from, or more stringent than, similar requirements in the United States.
Our operations in countries outside the United States:
•are subject to local regulations of the jurisdictions where we operate;
•in some cases, are subject to regulations in the jurisdictions where customers reside; and
•in all cases, are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”).
In particular, in South Korea, regulators are focused on protecting the rights of individual customers by enforcing “Treating Customers Fairly” concepts. This regulatory focus has resulted in rigorous data localization requirements, network separation obligations and system monitoring restrictions, as well as obligations to closely monitor marketing communications and sales scripts. Anti-money laundering requirements in South Korea and other countries where we do business also may impose obligations to collect certain information about each customer at time of sale or to risk rank each customer to determine possible future money laundering risk.
The FCPA prohibits offering, promising, providing or authorizing others to give anything of value to a foreign government official or employee to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a business advantage. Outside of the United States, we may interact with
32

government officials in several different capacities: as regulators of our insurance business; as clients or partners who are state-owned or partially state-owned; as health care providers who are employed by the government; as hospitals that are state-owned; and as officials issuing permits in connection with real estate transactions. Violations of the FCPA and other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal and civil sanctions as well as other penalties, and the SEC and DOJ have increased their enforcement activities with respect to FCPA. The UK Bribery Act of 2010 applies to all companies with a nexus to the United Kingdom. Under this act, any voluntary disclosures of FCPA violations may be shared with United Kingdom authorities, thus potentially exposing companies to liability and potential penalties in multiple jurisdictions. Other countries in which we do business also have anti-corruption laws to which we are subject.
33
