
(a) General Development of the Business

Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, “we,” "us," "our," the “Company” or “Colgate”) is a caring, innovative growth company reimagining a healthier future for all people, their pets and our planet. We seek to deliver sustainable, profitable growth and superior shareholder returns, as well as provide Colgate people with an innovative and inclusive work environment. We do this by developing and selling products globally that make people’s lives healthier and more enjoyable and by embracing our sustainability and social impact and diversity, equity and inclusion strategies across our organization. Our products are marketed in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923.

For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Executive Overview,” “– Outlook,” “–Results of Operations” and “– Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

(c) Narrative Description of the Business

We operate in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. We are a leader in Oral Care with global leadership in the toothpaste and manual toothbrush categories according to market share data. We sell our toothpastes under brands such as Colgate, Darlie, elmex, hello, meridol, Sorriso and Tom’s of Maine, our toothbrushes under brands such as Colgate, Darlie, elmex and meridol and our mouthwashes under brands such as Colgate, elmex and meridol. Our Oral Care business also includes pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals.

We are a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, according to market share data, which we sell under brands such as Palmolive, Protex and Softsoap. Our Personal Care products also include Irish Spring, Palmolive and Protex bar soaps, Irish Spring, Palmolive, Sanex and Softsoap shower gels, Lady Speed Stick, Sanex, Speed Stick and Tom’s of Maine deodorants and antiperspirants, EltaMD, Filorga and PCA Skin skin health products and Palmolive shampoos and conditioners.

We manufacture and market a wide array of products for the Home Care market, including Ajax, Axion and Palmolive dishwashing liquids and Ajax, Fabuloso and Murphy household cleaners. We are a market leader in fabric conditioners with leading brands, including Suavitel in Latin America, Soupline in Europe, and Cuddly in the South Pacific, according to market share data.

Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for 44%, 21% and 18%, respectively, of our total worldwide Net sales in 2020. Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of our business in Asia Pacific, comprising approximately 81% of Net sales in that region for 2020.

Through our Hill’s Pet Nutrition segment (“Hill’s” or “Pet Nutrition”), we are a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 80 countries and territories worldwide. Hill’s markets pet foods primarily under two brands. Hill’s Science Diet, which is called Hill’s Science Plan in Europe, is a range of products for everyday nutritional needs. Hill’s Prescription Diet is a range of therapeutic products to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for 17% of our total worldwide Net sales in 2020.

For more information regarding our worldwide Net sales by product category, refer to Note 1, Nature of Operations and Note 14, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For additional information regarding market share data, see “Market Share Information” in Part II, Item 7 of this report.

1

Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents

Our Oral, Personal and Home Care products are sold to a variety of traditional and eCommerce retailers, wholesalers and distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products are sold by authorized pet supply retailers, veterinarians and eCommerce retailers. Our sales to Wal-Mart, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately 12% of our Net sales in 2020. No other customer represents more than 10% of our Net sales. We support our products with advertising, promotion and other marketing (with increasing emphasis on digital) to build awareness and trial of our products. Our products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units and by distributors or brokers.

The majority of raw and packaging materials used in our products is purchased from other companies and is available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of our total material requirements. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and/or Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities, such as essential oils, resins, pulp, tropical oils, tallow, corn, poultry and soybeans, are subject to market price variations. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors - Volatility in material and other costs could adversely impact our profitability” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”

Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased retail trade concentration, the rapid growth of eCommerce, the integration of traditional and digital operations at key retailers and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. Products similar to those that we produce and sell are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do. In addition, the substantial growth in eCommerce has encouraged the entry of new competitors and business models. In certain geographies, we also face strong local competitors, who may be more agile and have better local consumer insights than we do. Private label brands sold by retailers are also a source of competition for certain of our products.

The retail landscape in many of our markets continues to evolve as a result of the rapid growth of eCommerce retailers, changing consumer preferences (as consumers increasingly shop online) and the increased presence of alternative retail channels, such as subscription services and direct-to-customer businesses. COVID-19 has accelerated these trends, either on a temporary or permanent basis, and we have witnessed consumers changing their purchasing patterns, including the nature and/or frequency of visits by consumers to retailers and dental, veterinary and skin health professionals as well as a shift, in many markets, to purchasing our products online. We face competition in several aspects of our business, including pricing, promotional activities, new product and brand introductions and expansion into new geographies and channels. Product quality, innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products and brands largely determine success in Colgate’s operating segments.

We consider trademarks to be of material importance to our business. We follow a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where our products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, elmex, hello, meridol, Sorriso, Tom’s of Maine, EltaMD, Filorga, Irish Spring, Lady Speed Stick, PCA Skin, Protex, Sanex, Softsoap, Speed Stick, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Murphy, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill’s Science Diet and Hill’s Prescription Diet. Our rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although we actively develop and maintain a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole.












2

COVID-19

COVID-19 and government steps to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19 have had and continue to have a profound impact on the way people live, work, interact and shop and have significantly impacted and may continue to impact economic activity around the world.

During 2020, many of the communities in which we manufacture, market and sell our products experienced unprecedented “stay at home” orders, travel or movement restrictions and other government actions to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19, and have implemented varying policies to resume economic activity. Because the vast majority of our products (such as oral care products, soaps and other personal hygiene products, home cleaners and pet food) have been deemed essential for the health and well-being of people and their pets, we have, in most instances, been able to continue operating our business. In doing so, the health, safety and well-being of our employees has been and remains our first priority. In addition, some of our suppliers, customers, distributors and service providers have experienced disruptions to their businesses.

We saw a significant increase in demand across many of our categories in 2020, driven by consumer pantry-loading and increased consumption of our products in response to COVID-19. This was particularly true in certain categories, such as liquid hand soap, dish liquid, bar soap and cleaners, and we believe that some of the increase in consumption in these categories is sustainable in light of changes in consumer behavior related to COVID-19. As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see heightened competitive activity from our competitors in certain categories, including more aggressive product claims and marketing challenges and the marketing of new products in high demand categories. At the same time, in 2020, we continued to experience declines in certain channels, including professional sales and travel retail, due to the economic slowdown and restricted consumer movement in many geographies throughout the world. We also continue to see changes in the purchasing patterns of our consumers, including the nature and/or frequency of visits by consumers to retailers and dental, veterinary and skin health professionals and a shift in many markets to purchasing our products online.
COVID-19 and government steps to reduce the spread and address the impact of COVID-19 have impacted and may continue to impact our consumers’ ability to purchase and our ability to manufacture and distribute our products. We expect the ongoing economic impact and health concerns associated with COVID-19 to continue to impact consumer behavior, shopping patterns and consumption preferences despite the lifting of government restrictions and the reopening of economies around the world.

For additional information regarding COVID-19’s impact on our business, see Part I, Item 1A “Risk Factors” and Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Executive Overview.”

Government Regulations

As a global company, we are subject to extensive governmental regulations, including environmental rules and regulations, in the U.S. and abroad. The most significant government regulations that impact our business are discussed below. It is our policy and practice to comply with all government regulations applicable to our business. In 2020, compliance with these regulations did not have, and we do not expect such compliance in the future to have, a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. For further discussion of how global legal and regulatory requirements may impact our business, see Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors.”

Product Development: Legal and regulatory requirements apply to most aspects of our products, including their development, ingredients, formulation, manufacture, packaging content, labeling, storage, transportation, distribution, export, import, advertising, sale and environmental impact. U.S. federal authorities, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Occupational, Health and Safety Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, regulate different aspects of our business, along with parallel authorities at the state and local levels and comparable authorities overseas.



3

Anti-Corruption, Anti-Bribery, Commercial Bribery and Competition: We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws that generally prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to foreign government officials and political figures for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to gain an unfair business advantage, and laws that prohibit commercial bribery. In addition, our selling practices are regulated by competition law authorities in the U.S. and abroad.

Privacy and Data Protection: Our collection, storage, transfer and/or processing of customer, consumer, employee, vendor and other stakeholder information and personal data is subject to privacy, data use and data security regulations in the U.S. and abroad, including the General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018.

Human Capital Management

Human capital matters at Colgate are managed by our Global Human Resources function, led by our Chief Human Resources Officer, with oversight from the Personnel and Organization Committee of our Board of Directors (the "Board"). As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 34,200 employees based in over 100 countries. Approximately 70% of our revenues are generated from markets outside the U.S. and 86% of our employees are located outside the U.S. Approximately 36% of our employees are based in Asia Pacific, 30% are based in Latin America, 15% are based in North America, 14% are based in Europe and 5% are based in Africa/Eurasia. Our global workforce covers a broad range of functions, from manufacturing employees to management personnel and certain of our employees are represented by unions or works councils.

Colgate’s Culture and Core Values

As we work to achieve Colgate’s purpose to reimagine a healthier future for all people, their pets and our planet, Colgate people, working around the world, share a commitment to our three core corporate values: Caring, Global Teamwork and Continuous Improvement. These values are reflected not only in the quality of our products and reputation, but also in our dedication to serving the communities where we live and work, as reflected in our sustainability and social impact and diversity, equity and inclusion strategies. With these values, we work to maintain a strong culture based on integrity, ethical behavior and a commitment to doing the right thing. Underlying these values and our strong culture is a commitment of all Colgate people to maintain the highest ethical standards and demonstrate ethical leadership, including compliance with Colgate policies and our Code of Ethics.

CARING: We care about people — Colgate people, consumers, customers, stockholders and business partners. We are committed to acting with compassion, integrity, honesty and high ethics in all situations and to providing our employees with an innovative and inclusive work environment. As a reflection of Colgate’s caring value, during the COVID-19 pandemic, protecting the health, safety and well-being of Colgate people has been and remains our first priority. Many of our employees globally have worked from home during the pandemic. We implemented additional health and safety measures and social distancing protocols to help ensure employee safety when work from home is not possible. We also offered Colgate people and their families enhanced mental health and wellness benefit offerings. Combined with the fact that the vast majority of our products have been deemed “essential” for the health and well-being of people and their pets, these efforts have, in most instances, enabled us to continue to operate during the pandemic providing consumers with the health and hygiene products they need and want.

GLOBAL TEAMWORK: All Colgate people are part of a global team, committed to working together across countries and throughout the world. Only by sharing ideas, technologies and talents can we achieve and sustain profitable growth.

CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT: We are committed to getting better every day in all that we do, as individuals and as teams. We continue to transform our learning strategy to better meet the evolving expectations of the modern workforce and create a continuous learning culture. All of our employees worldwide are provided with a series of training programs focused on building leadership skills. Our focus is to develop the strategic organizational capabilities that will drive current and future growth for Colgate by offering learning experiences that are closely aligned to our business strategy. Specifically, we are focused on implementing new ways of working and instilling a growth mindset to drive experimentation, digitization and innovation with agility and resilience.


4

Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

We believe our people are crucial to our ongoing business success. We celebrate differences, promote an inclusive environment and value the contributions of all Colgate people. As a truly global company, we are working to ensure that our workforce reflects the diversity of the communities in which we live and work. As of December 31, 2020, our global workforce was 60% male and 40% female, and women represented 41% of Colgate’s executives. Measuring the race/ethnicity of our workforce is challenging to do on a global basis. In the U.S., on an employee self-reported basis, the racial/ethnic composition of our workforce was approximately 67% White, 11% Hispanic, 9% Black, 8% Asian and 5% other.

We are committed to providing all of our employees with an inclusive work environment, learning opportunities and promotion and growth opportunities. A vital piece of our diversity, equity and inclusion strategy has been ensuring that our talent management process incorporates the advancement of women and people of all cultures, including underrepresented communities. To help further foster inclusiveness, we support employee resource groups for team members of many different underrepresented communities. Each of these resource groups contributes to our inclusive work environment by developing and implementing programs to promote business and community involvement as well as cultural awareness. We also partner with external organizations to develop an inclusive and supportive work environment.

Our global diversity, equity and inclusion strategy aims to further advance our commitment to become an even more diverse, equitable and inclusive organization. The four pillars of our strategy are People, Community, Supplier Diversity and Communication. Consistent with this strategy, we are working to implement policies, learning experiences and processes that promote awareness, empathy, advocacy and opportunity; become an ally for positive change for the underserved in communities in which we live and work; support minority and women-owned suppliers to enable success of diversity-owned businesses; and promote dialogue around diversity, equity and inclusion to increase awareness and advance the culture change to achieve our vision.

Succession Planning

We have a rigorous succession planning process, led by our Global Human Resources function. Our Board is also extensively involved in succession planning and people development with special focus on CEO succession. As part of the succession planning process, we review and discuss potential successors to key positions and examine backgrounds, capabilities and appropriate developmental assignments.

Compensation Philosophy

Given the importance of Colgate people to our business success, attracting, motivating and retaining high-quality talent is a key focus. We view compensation as an important tool to motivate leaders at all levels of the organization. For information regarding our compensation philosophy and executive compensation programs, please see our Proxy Statement to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) in connection with the 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

















5

Information about our Executive Officers

The following is a list of our executive officers as of February 18, 2021:
																				
Name		Age		Date First Elected Officer		Present Title
Noel R. Wallace		56		2009		Chairman of the Board, President and
Chief Executive Officer
Stanley J. Sutula III		55		2020		Chief Financial Officer
Patricia Verduin		61		2011		Chief Technology Officer
Jennifer M. Daniels		57		2014		Chief Legal Officer and Secretary
Philip G. Shotts		66		2018		Vice President and Controller
John W. Kooyman		56		2019		Chief of Staff
Prabha Parameswaran		62		2019		Group President, Global Innovation Group
Panagiotis Tsourapas		56		2019		Group President, Latin America, Asia Pacific & Africa-Eurasia
Sally Massey		47		2020		Chief Human Resources Officer

Each of our executive officers listed above has served the Company or our subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years with the exception of Stanley J. Sutula III, who joined the Company in 2020 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Sutula was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pitney Bowes Inc. (“Pitney Bowes”), which he joined in 2017. Prior to Pitney Bowes, Mr. Sutula served in various executive finance positions at International Business Machines Corporation.

Under our By-Laws, our officers hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified or until they have resigned, retired or been removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of our Board. There are no family relationships between any of our executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected.

(e) Available Information

Our website address is www.colgatepalmolive.com. The information contained on our website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, interactive data files posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also available on our website are the Company’s Code of Conduct and Board Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, the charters of the Committees of the Board, Specialized Disclosure Reports on Form SD, reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and executive officers and our proxy statements.

6
