Overview of Business
The Clorox Company is a leading multinational manufacturer and marketer of consumer and professional products with fiscal year 2020 net sales of $6.7 billion and approximately 8,800 employees worldwide as of June 30, 2020. Clorox sells its products primarily through mass retailers, grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollar stores, home hardware centers, drug, pet and military stores, third-party and owned e-commerce channels, and distributors. Clorox markets some of the most trusted and recognized consumer brand names, including its namesake bleach and cleaning products; Pine-Sol® cleaners; Liquid-Plumr® clog removers; Poett® home care products; Fresh Step® cat litter; Glad® bags and wraps; Kingsford® grilling products; Hidden Valley® dressings; Brita® water-filtration systems and filters; Burt’s Bees® natural personal care products; and RenewLife®, Rainbow Light®, Natural Vitality®, NeoCell® and Stop Aging Now® vitamins, minerals and supplements. The Company also markets industry-leading products and technologies for professional customers, including those sold under the CloroxPro™ and Clorox Healthcare® brand names. More than 80% of the Company’s sales are generated from brands that hold the No. 1 or No. 2 market share positions in their categories. The Company was founded in Oakland, California, in 1913 and is incorporated in Delaware.

In fiscal year 2020, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic caused a severe global health crisis, along with economic and societal disruptions and uncertainties. In response, the Company has been taking a pro-active role in addressing the impact of the pandemic on its employees, operations, customers and consumers, including taking precautionary measures, such as implementing contingency plans, and making operational adjustments where necessary. COVID-19 and the responses of governments, consumers and others to the pandemic have affected and will continue to affect the business in many ways; however, the Company believes that the actions that it is taking will help it emerge from this global pandemic operationally sound and well positioned for continued long-term growth.

The Company also continued its long-standing tradition of helping communities in times of natural disasters and health crises. Clorox and its foundations contributed more than $25 million in combined cash grants, product donations and cause marketing in fiscal year 2020.

1
Table of Contents  
As announced in October 2019, the IGNITE strategy accelerates innovation in key areas to drive growth and deliver value for both the Company's shareholders and society. Specifically, IGNITE focuses on four strategic choices to sustain Good Growth — which we define as profitable, sustainable and responsible growth — over the long term: Fuel Growth, Innovate Experiences, Reimagine Work and Evolve Portfolio. Goals for environmental, social and governance, or ESG, performance, in the areas of Planet, Product, People and Governance, also are integrated within the IGNITE strategy.

In fiscal year 2020, the Company delivered net sales growth of 8%, as well as a 16% increase in diluted net earnings per share (EPS) in a macroeconomic environment that was dominated by significantly higher demand for essential household products, especially cleaning and disinfecting products, as a result of COVID-19. Other conditions factoring into the dynamic environment included high levels of competition in select categories, increasingly competitive retail dynamics, uncertainty related to the global pandemic, and rising manufacturing and logistics costs.

The Company continued to focus on driving profitable sales growth in its U.S. business, leveraging strong demand-building investments, including product innovation to support category growth and market share. The Company launched new products in many categories in fiscal year 2020, including the Brita® Longlast small-capacity pitcher; Burt’s Bees® lip balm in new watermelon and hemp flavors; Burt’s Bees® lip butters; Burt’s Bees® Renewal skin care line with Bakuchiol, a retinol alternative; Clorox® Fabric and Laundry Sanitizer; Clorox® compostable cleaning wipes; Fresh Step® with Febreze Freshness with Gain scent; Glad® Flex-N-Seal food storage bags; Fresh Step® Clean Paws® with Febreze Freshness with Gain scent; Glad® Flex-N-Seal food storage bags; Glad® ForceFlex Plus colorful trash bags in Sweet Citron & Lime and Beachside Breeze with scent-release technology; Hidden Valley® Ranch Secret Sauce in three offerings - Original Ranch, Spicy, and Smokehouse; Kingsford® 100% Hardwood Pellets in five offerings - Classic, Hickory, Maple, Cherry, and Signature; Natural Vitality® Calm Sleep Gummies; Natural Vitality® Calm Sleep Capsules; Neocell® Beauty Shield™ Collagen Gummies; Neocell® Glam Hair & Nails Collagen Gummies; Rainbow Light® Multi Vitamin Gummies for men, women, teens and kids; and Renew Life® Herholistic Probiotics for Period, Prenatal and Menopause.

In international markets, the Company delivered volume and sales growth, largely resulting from increased demand for cleaning and disinfecting products as well as other essential household products as a result of COVID-19. Since cleaning and disinfecting products account for more than half of the segment’s sales and the threats from COVID-19 are ongoing, consumer demand is expected to remain high in the near term.

In May 2020, the Company announced an increase of 5% in its quarterly dividend. In fiscal year 2020, the Company paid $533 million in dividends to stockholders.

Finally, in fiscal year 2020, the Company demonstrated its commitment to corporate responsibility by maintaining strong and transparent ESG practices. As part of its 2020 sustainability goals, the Company continued to work to reduce water and energy use, solid waste to landfill and greenhouse gas emissions as well as improve the sustainability of its product portfolio. The Company surpassed nearly all its public sustainability goals two years early, and all other areas remained on track. The Company’s achievements were acknowledged through multiple external recognitions, including Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies in America, Forbes Magazine’s list of America’s best employers for diversity 2020, Newsweek’s 2020 list of America’s 300 Most Responsible Companies, Drucker Institute’s 2019 Management Top 250 list, and Forbes’ and Just Capital’s The Just 100 ranking of America’s best corporate citizens. Clorox also earned a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign’s 2020 Corporate Equality Index.

In fiscal year 2021, the Company anticipates ongoing challenges that may impact its sales and margins, including continued uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic, high levels of competition in select categories, a more competitive and evolving retail environment and changing consumer preferences, rising manufacturing and logistics costs, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the continuation of a difficult macroeconomic environment in the U.S. and in many international markets.

For additional information on recent business developments, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” in Exhibit 99.1, incorporated herein by reference.

2
Table of Contents  
Financial Information About Operating Segments and Principal Products

The Company operates through strategic business units (SBUs) which are also the Company’s operating segments. These SBUs are then aggregated into four reportable segments. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, the Company realigned its reportable segments following operational and systems integration. The Digestive Health and Dietary Supplements SBUs, previously included in the Household and Lifestyle reportable segments, respectively, were combined into a new Vitamins, Minerals and Supplements SBU, and the Home Care and Laundry SBUs, previously included in the Cleaning reportable segment, were combined to create the Cleaning SBU. These newly established SBUs, along with the Professional Products SBU, now make up the new Health and Wellness reportable segment due to their shared economic and qualitative characteristics. All periods presented have been recast to reflect this change. The four reportable segments consist of the following:
•Health and Wellness consists of cleaning products, professional products, and vitamins, minerals and supplement products mainly marketed and sold in the U.S. Products within this segment include cleaning products such as laundry additives, including bleach products under the Clorox® brand and Clorox 2® stain fighter and color booster; home care products, primarily under the Clorox®, Clorox® Scentiva®, Formula 409®, Liquid-Plumr®, Pine-Sol® and Tilex® brands; professional cleaning and disinfecting products under the CloroxPro™, Clorox Healthcare®, and Clorox® Total 360® brands and professional food service products under the Hidden Valley® brand; and vitamins, minerals and supplement products under the RenewLife®, Rainbow Light®, Natural Vitality®, NeoCell® and Stop Aging Now® brands.
•Household consists of grilling products; bags and wraps; and cat litter products marketed and sold in the U.S. Products within this segment include grilling products under the Kingsford® and Kingsford® Match Light® brands; bags and wraps under the Glad® brand; and cat litter products under the Fresh Step®, Scoop Away® and Ever Clean® brands.
•Lifestyle consists of food products, water-filtration systems and filters, and natural personal care products marketed and sold in the U.S. Products within this segment include dressings and sauces, primarily under the Hidden Valley® brand; water-filtration systems and filters under the Brita® brand; and natural personal care products under the Burt’s Bees® brand.
•International consists of products sold outside the U.S. Products within this segment include laundry additives; home care products; water-filtration systems and filters; digestive health products; grilling products; cat litter products; food products; bags and wraps; natural personal care products; and professional cleaning and disinfecting products primarily under the Clorox®, Ayudin®, Clorinda®, Poett®, Pine-Sol®, Glad®, Brita®, RenewLife®, Ever Clean® and Burt’s Bees® brands.
The Company’s products are marketed and sold globally. The following table provides the Company’s global product lines, which were sold in the U.S. (including products sold in the Professional Products SBU) and International, that accounted for 10% or more of consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30:
																	
	2020		2019		2018
Cleaning products	43 	%		40 	%		41 	%
Bags and wraps	15 	%		16 	%		18 	%
Food products	10 	%		10 	%		10 	%
Grilling products	8 	%		9 	%		10 	%

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution
In the U.S., most of the Company’s products are nationally advertised and sold to mass retailers, grocery outlets, warehouse clubs, dollar stores, home hardware centers, military stores and other retail outlets primarily through a direct sales force, and to grocery stores and grocery wholesalers primarily through a combination of direct sales teams and a network of brokers. Some brands are sold using the direct-to-consumer model. The Company sells institutional, janitorial, food-service, and healthcare products through a direct sales force and a network of brokers to distributors and redistributors. Outside the U.S., the Company sells products to the retail trade through subsidiaries, licensees, distributors and joint-venture arrangements with local partners. The Company also sells many of its products through alternative retail channels, including e-commerce retailers, hard discounters, subscription services and buying clubs.

3
Table of Contents  

Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
The Company purchases raw materials from numerous unaffiliated U.S. and international suppliers, some of which are sole-source or single-source suppliers. Interruptions in the delivery of these materials could adversely impact the Company. Key raw materials used by the Company include resin, non-woven fabrics for wipes products, sodium hypochlorite, corrugated cardboard, soybean oil, solvent, derivatives of amines, and other chemicals and agricultural commodities. Sufficient raw materials were available during fiscal year 2020. Costs for resin and other commodity costs decreased in fiscal year 2020, primarily due to volatility as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the Company expects the volatility of commodity and other costs to continue in fiscal year 2021.
The COVID-19 pandemic has caused a significant worldwide increase in demand for disinfecting products and other consumer and professional products. This has caused strain on the Company’s supply chain network and its ability to meet such demand. In addition, the Company generally utilizes supply contracts to help ensure availability and a number of forward-purchase contracts to help reduce the volatility of the pricing of raw materials needed in its operations. However, the Company is highly exposed to changes in the prices of commodities used as raw materials in the manufacturing of its products. For further information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Exhibit 99.1, “Risk Factors – Volatility and increases in the costs of raw materials, energy, transportation, labor and other necessary supplies or services have negatively impacted, and continue to negatively impact, the Company’s net earnings and cash flow” and “Risk Factors – Supply chain issues as a result of a reliance on a limited base of suppliers or the COVID-19 pandemic may result in product shortages or disruptions to the Company’s business” in Item 1.A.
Patents and Trademarks
Most of the Company’s brand name consumer products are protected by registered trademarks. The Company’s brand names and trademarks are highly important to its business, and the Company vigorously protects its trademarks from apparent infringements. Maintenance of brand equity value is critical to the Company’s success. The Company’s patent rights are also material to its business and are asserted, where appropriate, against apparent infringements.
Seasonality
Most sales of the Company’s grilling products occur during the months of March through September each calendar year. The volume and sales of grilling products may be affected by weather conditions.
Customers
Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Walmart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, were 25%, 25% and 26% of consolidated net sales for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and occurred across all of the Company’s reportable segments. No other individual customer accounted for 10% or more of the Company’s consolidated net sales in any of these fiscal years. The Company’s five largest customers accounted for nearly half of the Company’s consolidated net sales for each of the fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Competition
The markets for consumer products are highly competitive. The Company’s products compete with other nationally advertised brands and with “private label” brands within each category. Competition comes from similar and alternative products, some of which are produced and marketed by major multinational or national companies having financial resources greater than those of the Company. In addition, the Company faces competition from retailers, including club stores, grocery stores, drugstores, dollar stores, mass merchandisers, e-commerce retailers and subscription services. Furthermore, as the Company currently experiences increased demand for many of its products, especially its disinfecting products, in response to COVID-19, it expects heightened competitive activity from strong local competitors, other large multinational companies, and new entrants into the market in many of its categories, especially the disinfecting category. The Company’s products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand recognition, image and price. A newly introduced consumer product (whether improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade merchandising support. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it typically requires continued advertising and promotional support and ongoing product innovation to maintain its relative market position. For further information regarding the intense competition the Company faces, see “Risk Factors – The Company faces intense competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced net sales, net earnings and cash flow” in Item 1.A.

4
Table of Contents  
Environmental Matters
For information regarding noncapital expenditures related to environmental matters, see the discussions below under “Risk Factors – Environmental matters create potential liabilities that could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations” in Item 1.A. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental compliance are presently anticipated.
Number of Persons Employed
As of June 30, 2020, the Company employed approximately 8,800 people.
Available Information
The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on the Company’s website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These reports are available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Investors/Financial Information/SEC Filings. Information relating to corporate governance at Clorox, including the Company’s Code of Conduct, the Clorox Company Board of Directors Governance Guidelines and Board Committee charters for the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Audit Committee, and the Nominating, Governance and Corporate Responsibility Committee, is available at TheCloroxCompany.com under Who We Are/Corporate Governance or https://www.thecloroxcompany.com/who-we-are/corporate-governance/. The Company will provide any of the foregoing information without charge upon written request to Corporate Communications, The Clorox Company, 1221 Broadway, Oakland, CA 94612-1888. The information contained on the Company’s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.
