OVERVIEW
We were founded in 1919 as Cummins Engine Company, a corporation in Columbus, Indiana and one of the first diesel engine manufacturers. In 2001, we changed our name to Cummins Inc. We are a global power leader that designs, manufactures, distributes and services diesel, natural gas, electric and hybrid powertrains and powertrain-related components including filtration, aftertreatment, turbochargers, fuel systems, controls systems, air handling systems, automated transmissions, electric power generation systems, batteries, electrified power systems, hydrogen production and fuel cell products. We sell our products to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), distributors, dealers and other customers worldwide. We serve our customers through a network of over 500 wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distributor locations and over 9,000 Cummins certified dealer locations with service to approximately 190 countries and territories.
COVID-19
The outbreak of the coronavirus disease of 2019 (COVID-19) spread throughout the world and became a global pandemic with the resultant economic impacts evolving into a worldwide recession. The pandemic triggered a significant downturn in our markets globally, which continued to unfavorably impact market conditions throughout 2020 and these challenging market conditions could continue for an extended period of time. In an effort to contain the spread of COVID-19, maintain the well-being of our employees and stakeholders, match the reduced demand from our customers and in accordance with governmental requirements, we closed or partially shut down certain office, manufacturing, distribution and technical center facilities around the world in March 2020. Although most of our manufacturing, distribution and technical center facilities re-opened early in the second quarter of 2020, some operated at reduced capacities, most of our global office buildings remained closed through the remainder of 2020. Despite many of our markets recovering in the second half of 2020, the ongoing spread of the virus prior to widespread vaccination presents several risks to our business, especially in the first half of 2021.
COVID-19 vaccines are currently being administered around the world with the hope that the majority of the population will have access to the vaccine by the middle of 2021. If the distribution and the effectiveness of the vaccine are consistent with current government and health organization estimates, we anticipate the vaccine will mitigate the spread of the virus by the end of 2021 and allow a return to more normal operations in the second half of the year.
OPERATING SEGMENTS
We have five complementary operating segments: Engine, Distribution, Components, Power Systems and New Power. These segments share technology, customers, strategic partners, brand recognition and our distribution network in order to compete more efficiently and effectively in their respective markets. In each of our operating segments, we compete worldwide with a number of other manufacturers and distributors that produce and sell similar products. Our products primarily compete on the basis of performance, price, total cost of ownership, fuel economy, emissions compliance, speed of delivery, quality and customer support.
We use segment earnings or losses before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and noncontrolling interests (EBITDA) as the primary basis for the Chief Operating Decision Maker to evaluate the performance of each of our reportable operating segments. We believe EBITDA is a useful measure of our operating performance as it assists investors and debt holders in comparing our performance on a consistent basis without regard to financing methods, capital structure, income taxes or depreciation and amortization methods, which can vary significantly depending upon many factors. See Note 22, "OPERATING SEGMENTS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information and a reconciliation of our segment information to the corresponding amounts in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income.
Engine Segment
Engine segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:
																				
 		Years ended December 31,
 		2020		2019		2018
Percent of consolidated net sales(1)
		32 	%		34 	%		35 	%
Percent of consolidated EBITDA(1)
		41 	%		41 	%		41 	%
						
(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations
						
						
5
Table of Contents
The Engine segment manufactures and markets a broad range of diesel and natural gas-powered engines under the Cummins brand name, as well as certain customer brand names, for the heavy and medium-duty truck, bus, recreational vehicle (RV), light-duty automotive, construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agricultural markets. We manufacture a wide variety of engine products including:
•Engines with a displacement range of 2.8 to 15 liters and horsepower ranging from 48 to 715 and
•New parts and service, as well as remanufactured parts and engines, primarily through our extensive distribution network.
The Engine segment is organized by engine displacement size and serves these end-user markets:
•Heavy-duty truck - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines that range from 310 to 615 horsepower serving global heavy-duty truck customers worldwide, primarily in North America, China and Australia.
•Medium-duty truck and bus - We manufacture diesel and natural gas engines ranging from 130 to 450 horsepower serving medium-duty truck and bus customers worldwide, with key markets including North America, Europe, Latin America, China, Australia and India. Applications include pick-up, delivery, emergency vehicles, regional haul and vocational trucks and school, transit and shuttle buses. We also provide diesel engines for Class A motor homes (RVs), primarily in North America.
•Light-duty automotive (Pick-up and Light Commercial Vehicle (LCV)) - We manufacture 105 to 400 horsepower diesel engines, including engines for the pick-up truck market for Stellantis N.V. (Chrysler) in North America and LCV markets in China, Russia, Latin America and Korea.
•Off-highway - We manufacture diesel engines that range from 48 to 715 horsepower serving key global markets including construction, mining, marine, rail, oil and gas, defense and agriculture and also the power generation business for standby, mobile and distributed power generation solutions throughout the world.
The principal customers of our heavy-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as PACCAR Inc. (PACCAR), Navistar International Corporation (Navistar) and Daimler Trucks North America (Daimler). The principal customers of our medium-duty truck engines include truck manufacturers such as Daimler, Navistar and PACCAR. The principal customers of our light-duty on-highway engines are Gorkovsky Avtomobilny Zavod, Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Group Co., Ltd., Volkswagen Caminhões e Ônibus and China National Heavy Duty Truck Group. The principal customer of our pick-up on-highway engines is Chrysler. We sell our industrial engines to manufacturers of construction and agricultural equipment, including Hyundai Heavy Industries, Xuzhou Construction Machinery Group, Komatsu, John Deere, JLG Industries, Inc. and Guangxi LiuGong Machinery Co., Ltd.

In the Engine segment, our competitors vary from country to country, with local manufacturers generally predominant in each geography. Other independent engine manufacturers include Weichai Power Co. Ltd., Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) and Deutz AG. Truck OEMs may also elect to produce their own engines and we must provide competitive products to win and keep their business. Truck OEMs that currently produce some or all of their own engines include Daimler, PACCAR, TRATON AG, Volvo Powertrain, Ford Motor Company, Navistar, Hino Power, China First Auto Works, Dongfeng Motor Corporation, CNH Industrial and Isuzu.
Distribution Segment
Distribution segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:
																				
 		Years ended December 31,
 		2020		2019		2018
Percent of consolidated net sales(1)
		29 	%		27 	%		26 	%
Percent of consolidated EBITDA(1)
		22 	%		18 	%		16 	%
						
(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations
						
						
The Distribution segment is our primary sales, service and support channel. The segment serves our customers and certified dealers through a worldwide network of wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distribution locations. Wholly-owned locations operate and serve markets in the eight geographic regions noted below. Joint venture locations serve markets in South America, Southeast Asia, India, Middle East and Africa, while independent distribution locations serve markets in these and other geographies.
Distribution’s mission encompasses the sales and support of a wide range of products and services, including power generation systems, high-horsepower engines, heavy-duty and medium-duty engines designed for on- and off-highway use, application engineering services, custom-designed assemblies, retail and wholesale aftermarket parts and in-shop and field-based repair services. Our familiarity with our customers and our markets allows us to provide sales, service and support to meet our customers' needs.
6
Table of Contents
The Distribution segment is organized and managed as eight geographic regions, including North America, Asia Pacific, Europe, China, Africa and Middle East, Russia, India and Latin America. Across these regions, our locations compete with distributors or dealers that offer similar products. In many cases, these competing distributors or dealers are owned by, or affiliated with the companies that are listed as competitors of the Engine, Components or Power Systems segments. These competitors vary by geographical location and application market.
As part of our ongoing work to optimize marketplace coverage, we make regular operational and managerial changes to the number of outlets that provide sales, service and support to our customers. The current count of distribution and dealer locations is the result of recategorization that includes customer facing product and service operations and excludes non-customer facing locations that provide internal operational support. We serve our customers through a network of over 500 wholly-owned, joint venture and independent distributor locations and over 9,000 Cummins certified dealer locations with service to approximately 190 countries and territories.
Components Segment
Components segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:
																				
 		Years ended December 31,
 		2020		2019		2018
Percent of consolidated net sales(1)
		24 	%		24 	%		24 	%
Percent of consolidated EBITDA(1)
		32 	%		31 	%		29 	%
						
(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations
						
						
The Components segment supplies products which complement the Engine and Power Systems segments, including aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, transmissions, filtration products, electronics and fuel systems for commercial diesel and natural gas applications. We develop aftertreatment systems, turbochargers, fuel systems, transmissions and electronics to meet increasingly stringent emission and fuel economy standards. We manufacture filtration systems for on- and off-highway heavy-duty and medium-duty equipment, and we are a supplier of filtration products for industrial vehicle applications.
The Components segment is organized around the following businesses:
•Emission solutions - We are a global leader in designing, manufacturing and integrating aftertreatment technology and solutions for the commercial on and off-highway light-duty, medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower engine markets. Aftertreatment is the mechanism used to convert engine emissions of criteria pollutants, such as particulate matter, nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons into harmless emissions. Our products include custom engineering systems and integrated controls, oxidation catalysts, particulate filters, selective catalytic reduction systems and engineered components, including dosers. Our emission solutions business primarily serves markets in North America, Europe, China, India, Brazil, Russia and Australia. We serve both OEM first fit and retrofit customers.
•Turbo technologies - We design, manufacture and market turbochargers for light-duty, medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel markets with worldwide sales and distribution. We provide critical air handling technologies for engines to meet challenging performance requirements and worldwide emission standards. We primarily serve markets in North America, Europe, China, India, Brazil, Russia and Australia.
•Filtration - We design, manufacture and sell filters, coolant and chemical products. Our filtration business offers over 8,800 products for first fit and aftermarket applications including air filters, fuel filters, fuel water separators, lube filters, hydraulic filters, coolants, fuel additives and other filtration systems to OEMs, dealers/distributors and end-users. We support a wide customer base in a diverse range of markets including on and off-highway segments such as oil and gas, agriculture, mining, construction, power generation and marine. We produce and sell globally recognized Fleetguard® branded products in over 130 countries including countries in North America, Europe, South America, Asia and Africa. Fleetguard products are available through thousands of distribution points worldwide.
•Electronics and fuel systems - We design, develop and supply electronic control modules (ECMs), sensors and supporting software for on-highway, off-highway and power generation applications. We also design and manufacture new, replacement and remanufactured fuel systems for medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engine markets. We primarily serve markets in North America, China, India, Europe and Brazil.
•Automated transmissions - We develop and supply automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle market. Formed in 2017, the Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies joint venture is a consolidated 50/50 joint venture between Cummins Inc. and Eaton Corporation Plc. and serves markets in North America and China.
7
Table of Contents
Customers of the Components segment generally include the Engine, Distribution and Power Systems segments, joint ventures including Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd., Dongfeng Cummins Emission Solutions Co., Ltd. and Tata Cummins Ltd., truck manufacturers and other OEMs, many of which are also customers of the Engine segment, such as PACCAR, Daimler, Navistar, Volvo, Komatsu, Scania, Chrysler and other manufacturers that use our components in their product platforms.
The Components segment competes with other manufacturers of aftertreatment systems, filtration, turbochargers, fuel systems and transmissions. Our primary competitors in these markets include Robert Bosch GmbH, Donaldson Company, Inc., Parker-Hannifin Corporation, Mann+Hummel Group, Garrett Motion, Inc., Borg-Warner Inc., Tenneco Inc., Eberspacher Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Denso Corporation, Allison Transmission and Aisin Seiki Co., Ltd.
Power Systems Segment
Power Systems segment sales and EBITDA as a percentage of consolidated results were:
																				
 		Years ended December 31,
 		2020		2019		2018
Percent of consolidated net sales(1)
		15 	%		15 	%		15 	%
Percent of consolidated EBITDA(1)
		11 	%		14 	%		17 	%
						
(1) Measured before intersegment eliminations
						
						
The Power Systems segment is organized around the following product lines:
•Power generation - We design, manufacture, sell and support standby and prime power generators ranging from 2 kilowatts to 3.5 megawatts, as well as controls, paralleling systems and transfer switches, for applications such as consumer, commercial, industrial, data centers, health care, global rental business, telecommunications and waste water treatment plants. We also provide turnkey solutions for distributed generation and energy management applications using natural gas, diesel or biogas as a fuel.
•Industrial - We design, manufacture, sell and support diesel and natural gas high-speed, high-horsepower engines up to 5,500 horsepower for a wide variety of equipment in the mining, rail, defense, oil and gas, and commercial marine applications throughout the world.
•Generator technologies - We design, manufacture, sell and support A/C generator/alternator products for internal consumption and for external generator set assemblers. Our products are sold under the Stamford and AVK brands and range in output from 3 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) to 12,000 kVA.
Our customer base for Power Systems offerings is highly diversified, with customer groups varying based on their power needs. India, China, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East are our largest geographic markets outside of North America.
In the markets served by the Power Systems segment, we compete with a variety of independent engine manufacturers and generator set assemblers as well as OEMs who manufacture engines for their own products around the world. Our primary competitors are CAT, MTU (Rolls Royce Power Systems Group) and Kohler/SDMO (Kohler Group), but we also compete with INNIO, Generac, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (MHI) and numerous regional generator set assemblers. Our alternator business competes globally with Leroy Somer (NIDEC), Marathon Electric and Meccalte, among others.
New Power Segment
The New Power segment designs, manufactures, sells and supports hydrogen production solutions as well as electrified power systems ranging from fully electric to hybrid along with innovative components and subsystems, including battery and fuel cell technologies.
In the third quarter of 2019, we formed a joint venture with L'Air Liquide, S.A. via the purchase of Hydrogenics Corporation, which was consolidated and included in the New Power segment. See Note 20 "ACQUISITIONS," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
We anticipate our customer base for New Power offerings will be highly diversified, representing multiple end markets with a broad range of application requirements. We established relationships with Gillig for the urban bus market in North America, Blue Bird for the school bus market in North America, Alstom Transport in Europe for PEM fuel cell powered regional commuter trains and L'Air Liquide S.A. for on-site hydrogen production. We will continue to pursue additional relationships in markets as they adopt hydrogen and electric solutions.
8
Table of Contents
In the markets served by the New Power segment, we compete with electric start-ups, powertrain component manufacturers, vertically integrated OEMs and entities providing hydrogen production solutions. Our primary competitors include Proterra, Inc., Daimler, PACCAR, Volvo, Navistar, TRATON AG, BYD Company Limited, Dana Incorporated, Akasol AG, Ballard Power Systems, Inc. and Nel ASA.
JOINT VENTURES, ALLIANCES AND NON-WHOLLY-OWNED SUBSIDIARIES
We entered into a number of joint venture agreements and alliances with business partners around the world. Our joint ventures are either distribution or manufacturing entities. We also own controlling interests in non-wholly-owned manufacturing and distribution subsidiaries.
In the event of a change of control of either party to certain of these joint ventures and other strategic alliances, certain consequences may result including automatic termination and liquidation of the venture, exercise of "put" or "call" rights of ownership by the non-acquired partner, termination or transfer of technology license rights to the non-acquired partner and increases in component transfer prices to the acquired partner. We will continue to evaluate joint venture and partnership opportunities in order to penetrate new markets, develop new products and generate manufacturing and operational efficiencies.
Financial information about our investments in joint ventures and alliances is incorporated by reference from Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Our equity income from these investees was as follows:
																																						
		Years ended December 31,
In millions		2020		2019		2018
Manufacturing entities		 		 		 		 		 		 
Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd.		$	113 			30 	%		$	60 			22 	%		$	72 			21 	%
Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.		63 			17 	%		52 			19 	%		58 			17 	%
Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd.		35 			9 	%		41 			15 	%		51 			15 	%
All other manufacturers		134 		
(1)(2)
	35 	%		88 			33 	%		129 		

	39 	%
Distribution entities												
Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda.		31 			8 	%		28 			10 	%		26 			8 	%
All other distributors		2 			1 	%		2 			1 	%		— 			— 	%
Cummins share of net income(3)
		$	378 			100 	%		$	271 			100 	%		$	336 			100 	%
												
(1) Includes $37 million in favorable adjustments related to tax changes within India's 2020-2021 Union Budget of India (India Tax Law Change) passed in March 2020. See NOTE 4, "INCOME TAXES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on India Tax Law Change.
(2) Includes impairment charges of $13 million and loss on sale of business of $8 million for a joint venture in the Power Systems segment.
(3) This total represents our share of net income of our equity investees and is exclusive of royalties and interest income from our equity investees. To see how this amount reconciles to "Equity, royalty and interest income from investees" in the Consolidated Statements of Net Income, see Note 3, "INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY INVESTEES," to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
												
Manufacturing Entities
Our manufacturing joint ventures have generally been formed with customers and are primarily intended to allow us to increase our market penetration in geographic regions, reduce capital spending, streamline our supply chain management and develop technologies. Our largest manufacturing joint ventures are based in China and are included in the list below. Our engine manufacturing joint ventures are supplied by our Components segment in the same manner as it supplies our wholly-owned Engine segment and Power Systems segment manufacturing facilities. Our Components segment joint ventures and wholly-owned entities provide electronics, fuel systems, filtration, aftertreatment systems, turbocharger products and automated transmissions that are used with our engines as well as some competitors' products. The results and investments in our joint ventures in which we have 50 percent or less ownership interest (except for Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies joint venture which is consolidated due to our majority voting interest) discussed below are included in “Equity, royalty and interest income from investees” and “Investments and advances related to equity method investees” in our Consolidated Statements of Net Income and Consolidated Balance Sheets, respectively.
•Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. - Beijing Foton Cummins Engine Co., Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Beiqi Foton Motor Co., Ltd., a commercial vehicle manufacturer, which has two distinct lines of business - a light-duty business and a heavy-duty business. The light-duty business produces our families of ISF 2.8 liter to 4.5 liter high performance light-duty diesel engines in Beijing. These engines are used in light-duty and medium-duty commercial trucks, pick-up trucks, buses, multipurpose and sport utility vehicles with main markets in China, Brazil and Russia. Certain types of small
9
Table of Contents
construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families. The heavy-duty business produces the X11, X12 and X13, ranging from 10.5 liter to 12.9 liter, high performance heavy-duty diesel engines in Beijing. Certain types of construction equipment and industrial applications are also served by these engine families.
•Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Dongfeng Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. (DCEC) is a joint venture in China with Dongfeng Automotive Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Dongfeng Motor Corporation and one of the largest medium-duty and heavy-duty truck manufacturers in China. DCEC produces 3.9 liter to 14 liter diesel engines with a power range from 80 to 680 horsepower and natural gas engines. On-highway engines are used in multiple applications in light-duty and medium-duty trucks, special purpose vehicles, buses and heavy-duty trucks with a main market in China. Off-highway engines are used in a variety of construction, power generation, marine and agriculture markets in China.
•Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. - Chongqing Cummins Engine Company, Ltd. is a joint venture in China with Chongqing Machinery and Electric Co. Ltd. This joint venture manufactures several models of our heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines primarily serving the industrial and stationary power markets in China.
Distribution Entity
Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. - Komatsu Cummins Chile, Ltda. is a joint venture with Komatsu America Corporation. The joint venture is a distributor that offers the full range of our products and services to customers and end-users in Chile and Peru. See further discussion of our distribution network under the Distribution segment section above.
Non-Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries
We have a majority voting interest in Eaton Cummins Automated Transmission Technologies (ECJV) by virtue of a tie-breaking vote on the joint venture’s board of directors. ECJV develops and supplies automated transmissions for the heavy-duty commercial vehicle market.
We have a controlling interest in Cummins India Ltd. (CIL), which is a publicly listed company on various stock exchanges in India. CIL produces medium-duty, heavy-duty and high-horsepower diesel engines, generators for the Indian and export markets and natural gas spark-ignited engines for power generation, automotive and industrial applications. CIL also has distribution and power generation operations.
In the third quarter of 2019, we formed a joint venture with L'Air Liquide S.A. via the purchase of Hydrogenics Corporation, which was consolidated and included in our New Power segment. The Hydrogen Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of L'Air Liquide S.A., maintains a 19 percent noncontrolling interest in Hydrogenics Corporation. See Note 20, "ACQUISITIONS", to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
SUPPLY
The performance of the end-to-end supply chain, extending through to our suppliers, is foundational to our ability to meet customers' expectations and support long-term growth. We are committed to having a robust strategy for how we select and manage our suppliers to enable a market focused supply chain. This requires us to continuously evaluate and upgrade our supply base, as necessary, to ensure we are meeting the needs of our customers.

We use a combination of proactive and reactive methodologies to enhance our understanding of supply base risks which guide the development of risk monitoring and sourcing strategies. Our category strategy process (a process designed to create the most value for the company) supports the review of our long-term needs and guides decisions on what we make internally and what we purchase externally. For the items we decide to purchase externally, the strategies also identify the suppliers we should partner with long-term to provide the best technology, the lowest total cost and highest supply chain performance. We design and/or manufacture our strategic components used in or with our engines and power generation units and New Power products. Key suppliers are managed through long-term supply and cost sharing agreements that assure capacity, delivery, quality and cost requirements are met over an extended period.

Other important elements of our sourcing strategy include:
• working with suppliers to measure and improve their environmental footprint;
• selecting and managing suppliers to comply with our supplier code of conduct; and
• assuring our suppliers comply with our prohibited and restricted materials policy.
10
Table of Contents
PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
We own or control a significant number of patents and trademarks relating to the products we manufacture. These patents and trademarks were granted and registered over a period of years. Although these patents and trademarks are generally considered beneficial to our operations, we do not believe any patent, group of patents or trademark (other than our leading brand house trademarks) is significant to our business.
SEASONALITY
While individual product lines may experience modest seasonal variation in production, there is no material effect on the demand for the majority of our products on a quarterly basis with the exception that our Power Systems segment normally experiences seasonal declines in the first quarter due to general declines in construction spending during this period.
LARGEST CUSTOMERS
We have thousands of customers around the world and have developed long-standing business relationships with many of them. PACCAR is our largest customer, accounting for 15 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2020, 17 percent in 2019 and 15 percent in 2018. We have long-term supply agreements with PACCAR for our heavy-duty and medium-duty engines and aftertreatment systems. While a significant number of our sales to PACCAR are under long-term supply agreements, these agreements provide for particular engine requirements for specific vehicle models and not a specific volume of engines or aftertreatment systems. PACCAR is our only customer accounting for more than 10 percent of our net sales in 2020. The loss of this customer or a significant decline in the production level of PACCAR vehicles that use our engines would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We have been an engine supplier to PACCAR for 76 years. A summary of principal customers for each operating segment is included in our segment discussion.
In addition to our agreement with PACCAR, we have long-term heavy-duty and medium-duty engine and aftertreatment system supply agreements with Navistar and Daimler. We also have an agreement with Chrysler to supply engines for its Ram trucks. Collectively, our net sales to these four customers, including PACCAR, were 32 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2020, 37 percent in 2019 and 35 percent in 2018. Excluding PACCAR, net sales to any single customer were less than 7 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2020, less than 9 percent in 2019 and less than 9 percent in 2018. These agreements contain standard purchase and sale agreement terms covering engine, aftertreatment and engine parts pricing, quality and delivery commitments, as well as engineering product support obligations. The basic nature of our agreements with OEM customers is that they are long-term price and operations agreements that help assure the availability of our products to each customer through the duration of the respective agreements. Agreements with most OEMs contain bilateral termination provisions giving either party the right to terminate in the event of a material breach, change of control or insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party.
BACKLOG
We have supply agreements with some truck and off-highway equipment OEMs, however most of our business is transacted through open purchase orders. These open orders are historically subject to month-to-month releases and are subject to cancellation on reasonable notice without cancellation charges and therefore are not considered firm. At December 31, 2020, we did not have any significant backlogs.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
In 2020, we continued to invest in future critical technologies and products. We will continue to make investments to develop new products and improve our current technologies to meet future emission requirements around the world and improve fuel economy performance of diesel and natural gas-powered engines and related components as well as development activities around fully electric, hybrid and hydrogen power solutions and hydrogen production.
Our research and development programs are focused on product improvements, product extensions, innovations and cost reductions for our customers. Research and development expenditures include salaries, contractor fees, building costs, utilities, testing, technical IT, administrative expenses and allocation of corporate costs and are expensed, net of contract reimbursements, when incurred. From time to time, we enter into agreements with customers and government agencies to fund a portion of the research and development costs of a particular project. When not associated with a sales contract, we generally account for these reimbursements as an offset to the related research and development expenditure. Research and development expenses, net of contract reimbursements, were $903 million in 2020, $998 million in 2019 and $894 million in 2018. Contract reimbursements were $86 million, $90 million and $120 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
We are committed to making people's lives better by powering a more prosperous world. That prosperity includes strong communities, robust business and environmental sustainability.
11
Table of Contents
The highest level of accountability for our climate-related risks and opportunities is with the Safety, Environment and Technology (SET) Committee of the Board of Directors (the Board). The Action Committee for Environmental Sustainability meets monthly and reports to the Chairman and to the SET Committee at least annually.
In late 2019, we introduced PLANET 2050, a sustainability strategy focused on three priority areas: addressing climate change and air emissions, using natural resources in the most sustainable way and improving communities. The strategy includes eight specific goals to achieve by 2030, including science-based carbon dioxide reduction targets for newly sold products and facilities, as well as aspirational targets for 2050. We are currently evaluating how the new goals will be integrated into business planning and will report on progress beginning in 2022.
Our Sustainability Progress Report for 2019/2020 reports on environmental sustainability goals and commitments from our 2014 plan as well as other key environmental and climate metrics and targets. The 2014 plan goals were as follows:
•partnering with customers to improve the fuel efficiency of our products in use, targeting an annual run-rate reduction of 3.5 million metric tons of carbon dioxide;
•achieving a 32 percent energy intensity reduction from company facilities by the end of 2020 (using a baseline year of 2010) and increasing the portion of electricity we use derived from renewable sources;
•reducing direct water use by 50 percent adjusted for hours worked and achieving water neutrality at 15 sites by the end of 2020;
•increasing our recycling rate from 88 percent to 95 percent and achieving zero disposal at 30 sites by the end of 2020 and
•utilizing the most efficient methods and modes to move goods across our network to reduce carbon dioxide per kilogram of goods moved by 10 percent by the end of 2020.
Our progress through the end of 2020 will be summarized in our Sustainability Progress Report to be published later in 2021. This report is not incorporated by reference into this filing.

The most recent Sustainability Progress Report and prior reports, as well as a Data Book of more detailed environmental data in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative's Standard core compliance designation, are available on our website at www.cummins.com. Our annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) for climate change and water are also available on the website. The climate submission provides information on our scenario planning exercise for climate and other risks as requested by CDP. We also published our first report in accordance with the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board in 2020. These reports and data book are not incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference.
We continue to articulate our positions on key public policy issues and on a wide range of environmental issues. We are actively engaged with regulatory, industry and other stakeholder groups around the world as greenhouse gases (GHG) and fuel efficiency standards become more prevalent globally. We were named number 24 in Newsweek's Most Responsible Companies ranking, number 50 among Barron's Top 100 Most Sustainable Companies as well as named to the Dow Jones North American Sustainability Index for the fifteenth consecutive year in 2020.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
Product Certification and Compliance
Our engines are subject to extensive statutory and regulatory requirements that directly or indirectly impose standards governing emissions and noise. Over the past several years we have increased our global environmental compliance presence and expertise to understand and meet emerging product environmental regulations around the world. Our ability to comply with these and future emission standards is an essential element in maintaining our leadership position in regulated markets. We have made, and will continue to make, significant capital and research expenditures to comply with these standards.
We strive to be a leader in developing and implementing technologies that provide customers with the highest performing products while minimizing the impact on the environment, and we have a long history of working with governments and regulators to achieve these goals. We remain committed to ensuring our products meet all current and future emission standards and delivering value to our customers.
Formed in 2019, the Product Compliance and Regulatory Affairs team leads both engine emissions certification and compliance and regulatory affairs initiatives. This organization is led by the Vice President - Product Compliance and Regulatory Affairs who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer, and the new Vice President joins the Cummins Executive Team and Cummins Leadership Team. The focus of this organization is to strengthen our ability to design great products that help our customers win while ensuring compliance with increasingly challenging global emission regulations. The organization also works to enhance our collaboration with
12
Table of Contents
the agencies setting the direction and regulations of emissions to best ensure we are meeting every expectation today while planning for future changes.
Following conversations with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and California Air Resources Board (CARB) regarding certification for the engines in the 2019 RAM 2500 and 3500 trucks, we made the decision to review our certification process and compliance with emission standards. This review is being conducted with external advisers to ensure the certification and all of our processes for our pick-up truck applications are consistent with our internal policies, engineering standards and applicable laws. In addition, we voluntarily disclosed our formal internal review to the regulators and to other government agencies, the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and worked cooperatively with them to ensure a complete and thorough review. We fully cooperated with the DOJ's and the SEC's information requests and inquiries and, based on recent communications with these agencies, we do not expect further inquiries. See Note 14, "COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES," to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Engine Certifications
Our engines are certified globally through various categories within on-highway and off-highway applications. Regulations in these categories typically control nitrous oxides (NOx), particulate matter (PM) and GHG. The current on-highway NOx and PM emission standards came into effect in India on April 1, 2020, (BS VI), China on July 1, 2019, (NS VI), the EU on January 1, 2013, (Euro VI) and on January 1, 2010, for the EPA. To meet these regulations, mid-range and heavy-duty engines for India, China, EU and EPA require NOx aftertreatment. NOx reduction is achieved by an integrated technology solution comprised of the XPI High Pressure Common Rail fuel system, SCR technology (in some cases), next-generation cooled EGR, advanced electronic controls, proven air handling and the Cummins Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Ministry of Ecology and Environment, EU, EPA and CARB have certified that our engines meet the current emission requirements. Emission standards in international markets, including Japan, Mexico, Australia, Brazil and Russia are becoming more stringent. We believe that our experience in meeting the EU and EPA emission standards leaves us well positioned to take advantage of opportunities in these markets as the need for emission control capability grows.
In 2013, we certified to EPA's first ever GHG regulations for on-highway medium and heavy-duty engines. Additionally, the EPA 2013 regulations added the requirement of on-board diagnostics, which were introduced on the ISX 15 in 2010, across the full on-highway product line while maintaining the same near-zero emission levels of NOx and PM required in 2010. On-board diagnostics provide enhanced service capability with standardized diagnostic trouble codes, service tool interface, in-cab warning lamp and service information availability. The new GHG and fuel-efficiency regulations were required for all heavy-duty diesel and natural gas engines beginning in January 2014. Our GHG certification was the first engine certificate issued by the EPA and uses the same proven base engine with the XPI fuel system, variable geometry turbocharger (VGTTM) and Cummins aftertreatment system with DPF and SCR technology. Application of these engines and aftertreatment technologies continues in our products that comply with the 2021 GHG regulations.
Our off-highway engines designed for Tier 4 / Stage V standards were based on our extensive on-highway experience developing SCR, high pressure fuel systems, DPF and VGTTM. Our products offer low fuel consumption, high torque rise and power output, extended maintenance intervals, reliable and durable operation and a long life to overhaul period, all while meeting the most stringent emission standards in the industrial market. Our off-highway products power multiple applications including construction, mining, marine, agriculture, rail, defense and oil and gas and serve a global customer base. The current EPA Tier 4 off-highway emission standards came into effect between 2013-2015 for all engine power categories. The current EU Stage V off-highway emission standards became effective in 2019 for certain engine power categories and were completely effective January 2021 for all remaining categories.
Other Environmental Statutes and Regulations
Expenditures for environmental control activities and environmental remediation projects at our facilities in the U.S. have not been a substantial portion of our annual expenses and are not expected to be material in 2021. We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with laws and regulations applicable to our plants and operations.
In the U.S., pursuant to notices received from federal and state agencies and/or defendant parties in site environmental contribution actions, we have been identified as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended or similar state laws, at fewer than 20 waste disposal sites.
Based upon our experiences at similar sites we believe that our aggregate future remediation costs will not be material. We have established accruals that we believe are adequate for our expected future liability with respect to these sites. In addition, we have several other sites where we are working with governmental authorities on remediation projects. The costs for these remediation projects are not expected to be material.
13
Table of Contents
HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES
At December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 57,825 persons worldwide. Approximately 20,279 of our employees worldwide are represented by various unions under collective bargaining agreements that expire between 2021 and 2025.
Throughout our company’s 100-year history, we always recognized that people drive the strength of our business and our ability to effectively serve our clients and sustain our competitive position. We are focused on harmonizing our approach to talent to provide seamless opportunities and better experiences to our employees around the world. The disruptive events of 2020 gave even greater importance for us to complete the strategic work in Human Resources that calls for our company to “Inspire and Encourage All Employees to Reach Their Full Potential.” This strategy has key focus areas: creating a diverse and inclusive work environment; engaging employees and their families in improving wellness; developing self-aware and effective leaders; and extending our talent management philosophies in performance management, compensation management, competency building, and access to development opportunities to all employees.
Leadership and Talent Management
Managing our human capital resources is a key focus of the company. In 2020, the Board recast our Compensation Committee as the Talent Management and Compensation Committee to reflect the Board’s commitment to overseeing and providing guidance to our leadership team in this important work.
We strive to create a leadership culture that begins with authentic leaders who create an outstanding place to work by encouraging all employees to achieve their full potential. We encourage leaders to connect our people and their work to our mission, vision, values, brand promise and strategies of the company, motivating and giving them a higher sense of purpose. We have developed leadership and employee development programs for employees ranging from the manufacturing floor and technicians through middle management and executive development. When an individual joins Cummins, we are committed to providing both that employee and their manager with the tools and resources to manage their career and navigate in a large global organization. Through our Talent Management strategy our goal is to ensure all employees have access to the development and career opportunities that a global company enables.
Competitive Pay and Benefits
To attract and retain the best employees, we focus on providing competitive pay and benefits. Our programs target the market for competitiveness and sustainability while ensuring that we honor our core values. We provide benefit programs with the goal of improving physical, mental and financial wellness of our employees throughout their lifetime. Some examples include base and variable pay, medical, paid time off, retirement saving plans and employee stock purchase plans.
When designing our base pay compensation ranges, we do market analysis to be sure ranges are current and our employees are advancing their earning potential. We also do annual compensation studies to assess market movement, pay equity and living wages. For example, in 2018, we conducted a living wage analysis globally to ensure our employees were making a living wage in the countries they live and work. We incorporated this living wage assessment into our annual compensation structure to ensure that current and new hires never fall below this threshold. In the U.S. for example, the living wage in 2019 was $15 per hour, although most positions pay more than that. We continually review wages globally to ensure we are fair, equitable, competitive and can attract and retain the best talent.
We also provide diverse benefit programs that are aligned with our values and focused on supporting employees and their families based on their unique needs, some of which are: tiered health care cost so that more junior employees pay less for their premiums; paid parental leave for primary and secondary caregivers; advanced medical services from clinicians to support complex health care needs and employee assistance programs with diverse providers that can meet a range of employee needs from race related trauma to financial planning to transgender transition support.
Employee Safety and Wellness
Cummins is committed to being world-class in health and safety. We strive to ensure a workplace with zero incidents. We are committed to removing conditions that cause personal injury or occupational illness and we make decisions and promote behaviors that protect others from risk of injury. We publicly disclose metrics on our rate of recordable injuries, our rate of lost workdays due to injury and the rate of injuries involving contractors.
Our response to the COVID-19 global pandemic illustrated our commitment to safety. To support both our customers and communities, we made keeping employees safe our top priority. Most of our employees who can work from home have been doing so since the outbreak of the pandemic and we have provided them with the tools and support to do so. This allowed us to focus resources
14
Table of Contents
and investments on our engineering and production facilities. In those facilities, we have taken many steps to protect the health and safety of our people, including:
•Mandatory health screenings at our plants and facilities;
•Personal protective equipment for frontline employees;
•Masks required inside open plants and facilities;
•Redesigned exits, entrances and production lines to encourage social distancing;
•Enhanced cleaning protocols before, during and after shifts;
•Expanded healthcare and leave programs to support employees and their families; and
•Manufacturing our own face masks to provide to our employees free of charge.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Diversity, equity and inclusion at all levels of the company are critical to our ability to innovate, to win in the marketplace and to create sustainable success. Having diverse, equitable and inclusive workplaces allows us to attract and retain the best employees to deliver results for our shareholders. This is exemplified by the composition of the Board of which 4 of 12 directors are female and 4 of 12 directors are ethnically diverse. In addition, 50 percent of our executive team is female and 40 percent of our leadership team is female. We disclose publicly the percentage of women in supervisory roles and the overall workforce. We also launched several initiatives to increase representation of minorities in the workplace. We have created a Global Inclusion Leadership Council to oversee more than 100 employee resource groups around the world to provide opportunities to employees from all backgrounds for leadership training, cross cultural learning and professional development. In 2020, we launched Cummins Advocating for Racial Equity (CARE), which seeks to drive a sustainable impact in dismantling institutional racism and creating systemic equity.
For more information on the topics above and our management of our human capital resources, please go to sustainability.cummins.com. Information from our sustainability report and sustainability webpage is not incorporated by reference into this filing.
AVAILABLE INFORMATION
We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information electronically with the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information that Cummins files electronically with the SEC. The SEC's internet site is www.sec.gov.
Our internet site is www.cummins.com. You can access our Investors and Media webpage through our internet site, by clicking on the heading "About" followed by the "Cummins Inc. Investor website" link. We make available, free of charge, on or through our Investors and Media webpage, our proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
We also have a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access our Governance Documents webpage through our internet site, www.cummins.com, by clicking on the heading "About" followed by "Corporate Governance" and then the "Cummins Governance Documents" link. Code of Conduct, Committee Charters and other governance documents are included at this site. Our Code of Conduct applies to all employees, regardless of their position or the country in which they work. It also applies to the employees of any entity owned or controlled by us. We will post any amendments to the Code of Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange LLC (NYSE), on our internet site. The information on our internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
Following are the names and ages of our executive officers, their positions with us at January 31, 2021 and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience:
														
Name and Age	 	Present Cummins Inc. position and
year appointed to position	 	Principal position during the past
five years other than Cummins Inc.
position currently held
N. Thomas Linebarger (58)	 	Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer (2012)	 	
15
Table of Contents
														
Livingston L. Satterthwaite (60)		President and Chief Operating Officer (2019)		Vice President and President—Distribution Business (2015-2019)
Sherry A. Aaholm (58)		Vice President—Chief Information Officer (2013)		
Peter W. Anderson (54)		Vice President—Global Supply Chain and Manufacturing (2017)		Principal/Partner—Ernst & Young LLP (2006-2017)
Sharon R. Barner (63)	 	Vice President—General Counsel and Corporate Secretary (2020)	 	Vice President—General Counsel (2012-2020)
Christopher C. Clulow (49)	 	Vice President—Corporate Controller (2017)		Controller—Components Segment (2015-2017)
Jill E. Cook (57)		Vice President—Chief Human Resources Officer (2003)		
Amy R. Davis (51)	 	Vice President and President—New Power Segment (2020)	 	Vice President—Cummins Filtration (2018-2020)
General Manager—Filtration Business (2015-2018)
Tracy A. Embree (47)		Vice President and President— Distribution Business (2019)		Vice President and President— Components Group (2015-2019)
Thaddeus B. Ewald (53)		Vice President—Corporate Strategy and Business Development (2010)		
Walter J. Fier (56)		Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2019)		Vice President—Engineering, Engine Business (2015-2019)
Donald G. Jackson (51)		Vice President—Treasury and Tax (2020)		Vice President—Treasurer (2015-2020)
Melina M. Kennedy (51)		Vice President—Product Compliance and Regulatory Affairs (2019)		Executive Director—Pick-up Truck, Engine Business (2018-2019)
Executive Director—Rail & Defense (2017-2018)
General Manager—Rail & Defense (2014-2017)
Norbert Nusterer (52)		Vice President and President—Power Systems (2016)		Vice President—New and ReCon Parts (2011-2016)
Mark J. Osowick (53)		Vice President—Human Resources Operations (2014)		
Srikanth Padmanabhan (56)	 	Vice President and President—Engine Business (2016)		Vice President—Engine Business (2014-2016)
Marya M. Rose (58)		Vice President—Chief Administrative Officer (2011)	 	
Jennifer Rumsey (47)	 	Vice President and President—Components Group (2019)		Vice President—Chief Technical Officer (2015-2019)
Mark A. Smith (53)		Vice President—Chief Financial Officer (2019)		Vice President—Financial Operations (2016-2019)
Vice President—Investor Relations and Business Planning and Analysis (2014-2016)
Nathan R. Stoner (43)		Vice President—China ABO (2020)		General Manager—Partnerships and EBU China Joint Venture Business (2018-2020)
General Manager—Power Systems Business, China (2016-2018)
Executive Director—Corporate Business Development (2013-2016)
				
Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is elected annually by the Board and holds office until the meeting of the Board at which his election is next considered. Other officers are appointed by the Chairman and CEO, are ratified by the Board and hold office for such period as the Chairman and CEO or the Board may prescribe.
16
