General
Capital One Financial Corporation, a Delaware corporation established in 1994 and headquartered in McLean, Virginia, is a diversified financial services holding company with banking and non-banking subsidiaries. Capital One Financial Corporation and its subsidiaries (the “Company” or “Capital One”) offer a broad array of financial products and services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients through digital channels, branches, Cafés and other distribution channels.
As of December 31, 2020, our principal subsidiaries included:
•Capital One Bank (USA), National Association (“COBNA”), which offers credit and debit card products, other lending products and deposit products; and
•Capital One, National Association (“CONA”), which offers a broad spectrum of banking products and financial services to consumers, small businesses and commercial clients.
The Company is hereafter collectively referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.” COBNA and CONA are collectively referred to as the “Banks.” References to “this Report” or our “2020 Form 10-K” or “2020 Annual Report” are to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. All references to 2020, 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2016, refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, December 31, 2020, December 31, 2019, December 31, 2018, December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Certain business terms used in this document are defined in the “MD&A—Glossary and Acronyms” and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report.
As one of the nation’s largest banks based on deposits as of December 31, 2020, we service banking customer accounts through digital channels, as well as through branch locations, call centers, ATMs and Cafés. We also operate as one of the largest online direct banks in the United States of America (“U.S.”) by deposits. In addition to bank lending, treasury management and depository services, we offer credit and debit card products, auto loans and other consumer lending products in markets across the U.S. We were the third largest issuer of Visa® (“Visa”) and MasterCard® (“MasterCard”) credit cards in the U.S. based on the outstanding balance of credit card loans as of December 31, 2020.
We also offer products outside of the U.S. principally through Capital One (Europe) plc (“COEP”), an indirect subsidiary of COBNA organized and located in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), and through a branch of COBNA in Canada. Both COEP and our Canadian branch of COBNA have the authority to provide credit card loans.
Business Developments
We regularly explore and evaluate opportunities to acquire financial products and services as well as financial assets, including credit card and other loan portfolios, and enter into strategic partnerships as part of our growth strategy. We also explore opportunities to acquire technology companies and related assets to improve our information technology infrastructure and to deliver on our digital strategy. We may issue equity or debt to fund our acquisitions. In addition, we regularly consider the potential disposition of certain of our assets, branches, partnership agreements or lines of business.
In the fourth quarter of 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell a partnership credit card loan portfolio of approximately $2.1 billion, which had been transferred to held for sale as of September 30, 2020, resulting in an allowance release of $327 million.
On September 24, 2019, we launched a new credit card issuance program with Walmart Inc. (“Walmart”) and are now the exclusive issuer of Walmart’s cobrand and private label credit card program in the U.S.. On October 11, 2019, we completed the acquisition of the existing portfolio of Walmart’s cobrand and private label credit card receivables, which added approximately $8.1 billion to our domestic credit card loans held for investment portfolio as of the acquisition date.
								
	
4
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic
The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global public-health crisis, disrupting economies and introducing significant volatility into financial markets and uncertainty as to when economic and operating conditions will return to normalcy. This crisis continues to impact individuals, households and businesses in a multitude of ways. Companies in the U.S. and abroad have experienced unprecedented disruptions to normal business operations, including customer-facing interactions, supply chains, office closures, changes in demand for products and services, and others. Financial institutions, including us, have been deemed an essential service and exempted from the myriad of shutdowns across the country. We transformed how we work in order to protect the well-being of our associates and our customers, serve our customers, support our communities, and position ourselves to navigate the challenges ahead.
Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, a significant majority of our associates across our workforce have transitioned to working remotely, relying on our technology infrastructure and systems that have been designed for resilience and security. The majority of our associates will continue to work remotely through at least the summer of 2021, as we continue to prioritize their safety while planning our return to the office. We have been able to continue serving customers by successfully managing critical functions and keeping our lines of business operating. We implemented additional paid benefits and flexible attendance policies that are intended to enable our associates to care for their families and loved ones, including increased pay for branch and Café associates working in open locations, associates that perform essential and time-sensitive banking activities that cannot be performed remotely, and other U.S.-based associates in roles instrumental to maintaining essential customer support. We continue to monitor and revise our safety precautions and policies at banking locations as government authorities continue to implement and modify measures to contain the further spread of COVID-19. In our Retail Banking business, nearly all of our Cafés and branches across our network are open with increased safety precautions. We will continue to monitor local conditions to ensure the safety of our associates and customers while providing critical banking services.
We have offered a range of policies and programs to accommodate customer hardship across our lines of business. In our Credit Card and Auto businesses, our customers, who were in need and made a request, received forbearance primarily in the form of short-term payment deferrals or extensions and fee waivers. In our Retail Banking business, we waived select fees for impacted customers and offered short-term payment deferrals for our small business banking customers. We have also been working with our Commercial Banking customers on a more customized basis. In addition, we have participated in the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), established by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) enacted in March 2020 and implemented by the Small Business Administration. See “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile” for more information about our customer assistance programs, including enrollment volumes and outstandings, customer performance and current program offerings.
We reported net income of $2.7 billion ($5.18 per diluted common share) for 2020, which reflects $5.0 billion in allowance builds in the first and second quarters of 2020 due to expectations of economic worsening as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These allowance builds, in combination with the adoption impact of the Current Expected Credit Loss (“CECL”) standard, significantly increased our allowance coverage ratio to 6.19% as of December 31, 2020 from 2.71% as of December 31, 2019. For more information, see “MD&A—Executive Summary and Business Outlook” and “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile.” We have continued to evaluate the potential impact on our goodwill impairment analysis and have incorporated recent market events and trends into our valuations of instruments measured at fair value. See more details in “MD&A—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates,” “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” and “Note 9—Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” See “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile” for information relating to our liquidity reserves as of December 31, 2020.
The COVID-19 pandemic impacted the demand for our products and services throughout 2020. In our Domestic Card business, loan balances, and revenue are down year-over-year, while purchase volume was relatively flat due to higher first and fourth quarter activity substantially offsetting year-over-year volume declines in the second and third quarters. In our Auto business, we saw an increase in origination volumes and loan growth driven by our relationship strategy and digital capabilities that we have developed. In our Retail Banking business, we have seen strong deposit growth throughout the year from increased consumer savings aided by the impact of government stimulus. In our Commercial Banking business, loan balances were relatively flat year-over year, while deposit balances were up significantly, reflecting the impact of the economic environment and government stimulus on our customers.
We are actively monitoring and responding to developments across the myriad of landscapes affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, including social, financial, legal, regulatory and governmental. As guidance is issued by governments and our regulators, we continue to assess the impacts on us. As government authorities continue to implement, modify and reinstate social distancing and reopening plans and other measures to contain the further spread of COVID-19, including the
								
	
5
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
administration of vaccines, we will continue to adjust our business operations, policies and practices, keeping the best interests of our associates, customers and business partners at the forefront.
Cybersecurity Incident
On July 29, 2019, we announced that on March 22 and 23, 2019 an outside individual gained unauthorized access to our systems. This individual obtained certain types of personal information relating to people who had applied for our credit card products and to our credit card customers (the “Cybersecurity Incident”). We retained a leading independent cybersecurity firm that confirmed we correctly identified and fixed the specific configuration vulnerability exploited in the Cybersecurity Incident. We continue to invest significantly in cybersecurity and related risk management activities and expect to make additional investments as we continue to assess our cybersecurity program.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred $66 million of incremental expenses related to the remediation of and response to the Cybersecurity Incident, offset by $39 million of insurance recoveries. To date, we have incurred $138 million of incremental expenses, offset by $73 million of insurance recoveries pursuant to the cyber risk insurance coverage we carry. These expenses mainly consist of customer notifications, credit monitoring, technology costs, and professional and legal support. We expect any further expenses, net of insurance, to be immaterial in future periods. We carry insurance to cover certain costs associated with a cyber risk event. This insurance has a total coverage limit of $400 million and is subject to a $10 million deductible, which was met in the third quarter of 2019, as well as standard exclusions. The expenses discussed in this paragraph do not include any amounts related to the matters described in “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”
Although the ultimate magnitude and timing of expenses or other impacts to our business or reputation related to the Cybersecurity Incident are uncertain, they may be significant, and some of the costs may not be covered by insurance. However, we do not believe that this incident will materially impact our strategy or our long-term financial health. For more information, see “Note 18—Commitments, Contingencies, Guarantees and Others.”
Additional Information
Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “COF” and is included in the Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) 100 Index. We maintain a website at www.capitalone.com. Documents available under Corporate Governance in the Investor Relations section of our website include:
•our Code of Conduct;
•our Corporate Governance Guidelines; and
•charters for the Audit, Compensation, Governance and Nominating, and Risk Committees of the Board of Directors.
These documents also are available in print to any stockholder who requests a copy. We intend to disclose future amendments to certain provisions of our Code of Conduct, and waivers of our Code of Conduct granted to executive officers and directors, on the website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver.
In addition, we make available free of charge through our website all of our U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) filings, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing or furnishing such material to the SEC at www.sec.gov.
								
	
6
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
		
OPERATIONS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS
Our consolidated total net revenues are derived primarily from lending to consumer and commercial customers net of funding costs associated with our deposits, long-term debt and other borrowings. We also earn non-interest income which primarily consists of interchange income, net of reward expenses, service charges and other customer-related fees. Our expenses primarily consist of the provision for credit losses, operating expenses, marketing expenses and income taxes.
Our principal operations are organized for management reporting purposes into three major business segments, which are defined primarily based on the products and services provided or the types of customers served: Credit Card, Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking. The operations of acquired businesses have been integrated into or managed as a part of our existing business segments. Certain activities that are not part of a segment, such as management of our corporate investment portfolio, asset/liability management by our centralized Corporate Treasury group and residual tax expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate that is not assessed to our primary business segments, are included in the Other category.
•Credit Card: Consists of our domestic consumer and small business card lending, and international card businesses in Canada and the United Kingdom.
•Consumer Banking: Consists of our deposit gathering and lending activities for consumers and small businesses, and national auto lending.
•Commercial Banking: Consists of our lending, deposit gathering, capital markets and treasury management services to commercial real estate and commercial and industrial customers. Our customers typically include companies with annual revenues between $20 million and $2 billion.
Customer usage and payment patterns, credit quality, levels of marketing expense and operating efficiency all affect our profitability. In our Credit Card business, we experience fluctuations in purchase volume and the level of outstanding loan receivables due to seasonal variances in consumer spending and payment patterns which, for example, have historically been the highest around the winter holiday season. Net charge-off rates for our credit card loan portfolio also have historically exhibited seasonal patterns as well and generally tend to be the highest in the first quarter of the year.
For additional information on our business segments, including the financial performance of each business, see “Part II—Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”)—Executive Summary and Business Outlook,” “MD&A—Business Segment Financial Performance” and “Note 17—Business Segments and Revenue from Contracts with Customers” of this Report.
								
	
7
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
		
COMPETITION
Each of our business segments operates in a highly competitive environment, and we face competition in all aspects of our business from numerous bank and non-bank providers of financial services.
Our Credit Card business competes with international, national, regional and local issuers of Visa and MasterCard credit cards, as well as with American Express®, Discover Card®, private-label card brands, and, to a certain extent, issuers of debit cards. In general, customers are attracted to credit card issuers largely on the basis of price, credit limit, reward programs and other product features.
Our Consumer Banking and Commercial Banking businesses compete with national, state and direct banks for deposits, commercial and auto loans, as well as with savings and loan associations and credit unions for loans and deposits. Our competitors also include automotive finance companies, commercial mortgage banking companies and other financial services providers that provide loans, deposits, and other similar services and products. In addition, we compete against non-depository institutions that are able to offer these products and services.
We also consider new and emerging companies in the digital and mobile payments space and other financial technology providers among our competitors. We compete with many forms of payment mechanisms, systems and products, offered by both bank and non-bank providers.
Our businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and range of their products and services, transaction execution, innovation and price. Competition varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain our associates and on our reputation as well as our ability to keep pace with innovation, in particular in the development of new technology platforms. There can be no assurance, however, that our ability to market products and services successfully or to obtain adequate returns on our products and services will not be impacted by the nature of the competition that now exists or may later develop, or by the broader economic environment. For a discussion of the risks related to our competitive environment, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors.”
		
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
The regulatory framework applicable to banking organizations is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the stability of the U.S. financial system, rather than for the protection of shareholders and creditors.
As a banking organization, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. In addition to banking laws and regulations, we are subject to various other laws and regulations, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. We and our subsidiaries are also subject to supervision and examination by multiple regulators. In addition to laws and regulations, state and federal bank regulatory agencies may issue policy statements, interpretive letters and similar written guidance applicable to us and our subsidiaries. Any change in the statutes, regulations or regulatory policies applicable to us, including changes in their interpretation or implementation, could have a material effect on our business or organization.
Both the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which we are subject have increased in recent years, initially in response to the financial crisis, and more recently in light of other factors such as technological, political and market changes. Regulatory enforcement and fines have also increased across the banking and financial services sector.
The descriptions below summarize certain significant state and federal laws to which we are subject. The descriptions are qualified in their entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions summarized. They do not summarize all possible or proposed changes in current laws or regulations and are not intended to be a substitute for the related statues or regulatory provisions.
Banking Regulation
Capital One Financial Corporation is a bank holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (“BHC Act”), and is subject to the requirements of the BHC Act, including approval requirements for investments in or acquisitions of banking organizations, capital adequacy standards and limitations on non-banking activities. As a BHC and FHC, we are subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). Permissible activities for a BHC include those activities that are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. In addition, an FHC is permitted to engage in activities
								
	
8
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
considered to be financial in nature (including, for example, securities underwriting and dealing and merchant banking activities), incidental to financial activities or, if the Federal Reserve determines that they pose no risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system in general, activities complementary to financial activities.
To become and remain eligible for FHC status, a BHC and its subsidiary depository institutions must meet certain criteria, including capital, management and Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. Failure to meet such criteria could result, depending on which requirements were not met, in restrictions on new financial activities or acquisitions or being required to discontinue existing activities that are not generally permissible for BHCs.
The Banks are national associations chartered under the National Bank Act, and the deposits of which are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to applicable limits. The Banks are subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the FDIC and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”).
We are also registered as a financial institution holding company under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia and, as such, we are subject to periodic examination by the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions. We also face regulation in the international jurisdictions in which we conduct business. See “Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States” below for additional details.
Regulation of Business Activities
The business activities of the Company and the Banks are also subject to regulation and supervision under various laws and regulations.
Regulations of Consumer Lending Activities
The activities of the Banks as consumer lenders are subject to regulation under various federal laws, including, for example, the Truth in Lending Act (“TILA”), the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the CRA, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“Dodd-Frank Act”), the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act and the Military Lending Act, as well as under various state laws. TILA, as amended, imposes a number of restrictions on credit card practices impacting rates and fees, requires that a consumer’s ability to pay be taken into account before issuing credit or increasing credit limits, and imposes revised disclosures required for open-end credit.
Depending on the underlying issue and applicable law, regulators may be authorized to impose penalties for violations of these statutes and, in certain cases, to order banks to compensate customers. Borrowers may also have a private right of action for certain violations. Federal bankruptcy and state debtor relief and collection laws may also affect the ability of a bank, including the Banks, to collect outstanding balances owed by borrowers.
Debit Interchange Fees
The Dodd-Frank Act requires that the amount of any interchange fee received by a debit card issuer with respect to debit card transactions be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer with respect to the transaction. Rules adopted by the Federal Reserve to implement these requirements limit interchange fees per debit card transaction to $0.21 plus five basis points of the transaction amount and provide for an additional $0.01 fraud prevention adjustment to the interchange fee for issuers that meet certain fraud prevention requirements.
Privacy, Data Protection and Cybersecurity
We are subject to multiple federal and state laws concerning privacy, data protection and cybersecurity, such as the Gramm-Leach Bliley Act (“GLBA”). This area has seen an increase in legislative and regulatory activity over the past several years. For example, in 2018, the State of California passed the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA and its implementing regulations, as recently amended by the California Privacy Rights Act, create obligations on covered companies to, among other things, share certain information they have collected about individuals who are California residents with those individuals, subject to some exceptions.
In addition, in December 2020, the Federal Reserve, OCC and FDIC (collectively, the “Federal Banking Agencies”) issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that, among other things, would require a banking organization to notify its primary federal regulators within 36 hours after identifying a "computer-security incident" that the banking organization believes in good faith
								
	
9
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
could materially disrupt, degrade or impair its business or operations in a manner that would, among other things, jeopardize the viability of its operations, result in customers being unable to access their deposit and other accounts, result in a material loss of revenue, profit or franchise value, or pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States.
We continue to monitor data privacy and cybersecurity legal developments in the jurisdictions in which we do business. For further discussion of privacy, data protection and cybersecurity, and related risks for our business, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the headings “We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure,” “Theft, loss or misuse of information as a result of a cyber-attack may result in increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage and business disruptions,” and “Potential data protection and privacy incidents, and our required compliance with laws and regulations related to these areas, may increase our costs, result in legal liability, reduce our revenue and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities.”
Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism
The Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (“Patriot Act”) require financial institutions, among other things, to implement a risk-based program reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and to combat the financing of terrorism, including through suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting, compliance, record-keeping and customer due diligence.
The Patriot Act also contains financial transparency laws and provides enhanced information collection tools and enforcement mechanisms to the U.S. government, including due diligence and record-keeping requirements for private banking and correspondent accounts; standards for verifying customer identification at account opening; rules to produce certain records upon request of a regulator or law enforcement agency; and rules to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement agencies in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism, money laundering and other crimes.
The Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (“AML Act”), enacted on January 1, 2021 as part of the National Defense Authorization Act, does not directly impose new requirements on banks, but requires the U.S. Treasury Department to issue National Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Priorities, and conduct studies and issue regulations that may, over the next few years, significantly alter some of the due diligence, recordkeeping and reporting requirements that the Bank Secrecy Act and Patriot Act impose on banks. The AML Act also contains provisions that promote increased information-sharing and use of technology, and increases penalties for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act and includes whistleblower incentives, both of which could increase the prospect of regulatory enforcement.
Funding
Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”), as discussed in “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile,” only well capitalized and adequately capitalized institutions may accept brokered deposits. Adequately capitalized institutions, however, must obtain a waiver from the FDIC before accepting brokered deposits, and such institutions may not pay rates that significantly exceed the rates paid on deposits of similar maturity obtained from the institution’s normal market area or, for deposits obtained from outside the institution’s normal market area, the national rate on deposits of comparable maturity. In December 2020, the FDIC finalized amendments to the brokered deposit regulation that, among other things, generally clarify and narrow the scope of the "deposit broker" definition. The amendments become effective April 1, 2021.
The FDIC is authorized to terminate a bank’s deposit insurance upon a finding by the FDIC that the bank’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition enacted or imposed by the bank’s regulatory agency.
Broker-Dealer and Investment Advisory Activities
Certain of our non-bank subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision by various federal and state authorities. United Income, Inc. is an investment adviser registered with the SEC and primarily regulated under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Capital One Securities, Inc. and KippsDeSanto & Company are registered broker-dealers regulated by the SEC and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. These broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject, among other things, to net capital rules designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer. Under these rules, broker-dealers are required to maintain the minimum net capital deemed necessary to meet their continuing commitments to customers and others, and to keep a substantial portion of their assets in relatively liquid form. These rules also limit the ability of a broker-dealer to
								
	
10
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
transfer capital to its parent companies and other affiliates. Broker-dealers are also subject to regulations covering their business operations, including sales and trading practices, public offerings, publication of research reports, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and the conduct of directors, officers and employees.
Derivatives Activities
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a regulatory framework for the governance of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives market, including swaps and security-based swaps and the registration of certain market participants as a swap dealer. CONA provisionally registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”) as a swap dealer in the third quarter of 2020. Registration as a swap dealer subjects CONA to additional regulatory requirements with respect to its swaps and other derivatives activities. As a result of CONA’s swap dealer registration, it is subject to the rules of the OCC concerning capital and margin requirements for swap dealers, including the mandatory exchange of variation margin and initial margin with certain counterparties. Additionally, as a provisionally registered swap dealer, CONA is subject to requirements under the CFTC’s regulatory regime, including rules regarding business conduct standards, recordkeeping obligations, regulatory reporting and procedures relating to swaps trading. CONA’s swaps and other derivatives activities do not require it to register with the SEC as a security-based swap dealer.
Transactions with Affiliates
There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which we and our non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise engage in certain types of transactions with the Banks. Under the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve regulations, the Banks and their subsidiaries are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets, and certain other transactions involving its non-bank affiliates. In addition, transactions between the Banks and their non-bank affiliates are required to be on arm’s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness.
Volcker Rule
We and each of our subsidiaries, including the Banks, are subject to the “Volcker Rule,” a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act that contains prohibitions on proprietary trading and certain investments in, and relationships with, covered funds (hedge funds, private equity funds and similar funds), subject to certain exemptions, in each case as the applicable terms are defined in the Volcker Rule and the implementing regulations. The implementing regulations also require that we establish and maintain a compliance program designed to ensure adherence with the requirements of the regulations.
Capital and Liquidity Regulation
The Company and the Banks are subject to capital adequacy guidelines adopted by the Federal Reserve and OCC respectively. For a further discussion of the capital adequacy guidelines, see “MD&A—Capital Management,” “MD&A—Liquidity Risk Profile” and “Note 11—Regulatory and Capital Adequacy.”
Basel III and United States Capital Rules
The Company and the Banks are subject to the regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC respectively (the “Basel III Capital Rules”). The Basel III Capital Rules implement certain capital and liquidity requirements published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel Committee”), along with certain Dodd-Frank Act and other capital provisions. Under the Basel III Capital Rules, we must maintain a minimum common equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital ratio of 4.5%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0%, in each case in relation to risk-weighted assets. In addition, we must maintain a minimum leverage ratio of 4% and a minimum supplementary leverage ratio of 3%. We are also subject to the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical capital buffer requirements, as described below.
In July 2019, the Federal Banking Agencies finalized certain changes to the Basel III Capital Rules for institutions not subject to the Basel III Advanced Approaches (“Capital Simplification Rule”). These changes, effective January 1, 2020, generally raised the threshold above which a covered institution such as the Company must deduct certain assets from its CET1 capital, including certain deferred tax assets, mortgage servicing assets, and investments in unconsolidated financial institutions.
In October 2019, the Federal Banking Agencies amended the Basel III Capital Rules to provide for tailored application of certain capital requirements across different categories of banking institutions (“Tailoring Rules”). These categories are determined primarily by an institution’s asset size, with adjustments to a more stringent category possible if the institution exceeds certain risk-based thresholds. As a BHC with total consolidated assets of at least $250 billion that does not exceed any
								
	
11
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
of the applicable risk-based thresholds, we are a Category III institution under the Tailoring Rules. Therefore, effective January 1, 2020, we were no longer subject to the Basel III “Advanced Approaches” framework and certain associated capital requirements, such as the requirement to include certain elements of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) in our regulatory capital. We remain subject to the countercyclical capital buffer requirement (which is currently set at 0%) and supplementary leverage ratio requirement, which were previously required only for Basel III Advanced Approaches institutions. Effective as of the first quarter of 2020, we excluded certain elements of AOCI from our regulatory capital as permitted by the Tailoring Rules. The Tailoring Rules and Capital Simplification Rule have, taken together, decreased our capital requirements.
Global systemically important banks (“G-SIBs”) that are based in the U.S. are subject to an additional CET1 capital requirement (“G-SIB Surcharge”). We are not a G-SIB based on the most recent available data and thus we are not subject to a G-SIB Surcharge.
Stress Capital Buffer Rule
The Basel III Capital Rules also require banking institutions to maintain a capital conservation buffer, composed of CET1 capital, above the regulatory minimum ratios. The capital conservation buffer for BHCs was previously fixed at 2.5%. In March 2020, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to implement the stress capital buffer requirement (“Stress Capital Buffer Rule”). The stress capital buffer requirement is institution-specific and replaces the fixed 2.5% capital conservation buffer for BHCs.
Pursuant to the Stress Capital Buffer Rule, the Federal Reserve will use the results of its supervisory stress test to determine the size of a BHC’s stress capital buffer requirement. In particular, a BHC’s stress capital buffer requirement will equal, subject to a floor of 2.5%, the sum of (i) the difference between the BHC’s starting CET1 capital ratio and its lowest projected CET1 capital ratio under the severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve’s supervisory stress test plus (ii) the ratio of the BHC’s projected four quarters of common stock dividends (for the fourth to seventh quarters of the planning horizon) to the projected risk-weighted assets for the quarter in which the BHC’s projected CET1 capital ratio reaches its minimum under the supervisory stress test.
Under the Stress Capital Buffer Rule framework, the Company’s new “standardized approach capital conservation buffer” includes its stress capital buffer requirement (which will be recalibrated every year based on the Company’s supervisory stress test results), any G-SIB surcharge (which is not applicable to us) and the countercyclical capital buffer requirement (which is currently set at 0%). Any determination to increase the countercyclical capital buffer generally would be effective twelve months after the announcement of such an increase, unless the Federal Banking Agencies set an earlier effective date.
The Stress Capital Buffer Rule does not apply to the Banks. The capital conservation buffer for the Banks continues to be fixed at 2.5%.
If we fail to maintain our capital ratios above the minimum capital requirements plus the applicable buffer requirements, we will face increasingly strict automatic limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to certain executive officers.
Under the Basel III Capital Rules, if a banking institution’s capital ratios fall within its buffer requirements, the maximum amount of capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments it can make is a function of its eligible retained income. In March 2020, the Federal Banking Agencies revised the definition of “eligible retained income” in their respective capital rules. Under the revised definition of “eligible retained income,” any such automatic limitations on capital distributions would apply in a less severe and more gradual manner than would otherwise have occurred under the previous definition of that term. This change was made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to support banking organizations that choose to use their capital and liquidity buffers to lend and undertake other actions that support economic activity in a safe and sound manner.
CECL Transition Rule
As part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Banking Agencies adopted a final rule (“2020 CECL Transition Rule”) that provides banking institutions an optional five-year transition period to phase in the impact of the CECL standard on their regulatory capital (the “2020 CECL Transition Election”).
Pursuant to the 2020 CECL Transition Rule, a banking institution may elect to delay the estimated impact of adopting CECL on its regulatory capital through December 31, 2021 and then phase in the estimated cumulative impact from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024. For the “day 2” ongoing impact of CECL during the initial two years, the Federal Banking Agencies use a uniform “scaling factor” of 25% as an approximation of the increase in the allowance under the CECL standard
								
	
12
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
compared to the prior incurred loss methodology. Accordingly, from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2021, electing banking institutions are permitted to add back to their regulatory capital an amount equal to the sum of the after-tax “day 1” CECL adoption impact and 25% of the increase in the allowance since the adoption of the CECL standard. Beginning January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024, the after-tax “day 1” CECL adoption impact and the cumulative “day 2” ongoing impact will be phased in to regulatory capital at 25% per year. The following table summarizes the capital impact delay and phase in period on our regulatory capital from years 2020 to 2025.
																																						
		Capital Impact Delayed		
Phase In Period
		2020		2021		2022		2023		2024		2025
“Day 1” CECL adoption impact		Capital impact delayed to 2022		25% Phased In		50% Phased In		75% Phased In		Fully Phased In
Cumulative “day 2” ongoing impact		  25% scaling factor as an approximation of the increase in allowance under CECL				
We adopted the CECL standard (for accounting purposes) as of January 1, 2020, and made the 2020 CECL Transition Election (for regulatory capital purposes) in the first quarter of 2020.
Temporary Exclusions for Supplementary Leverage Ratio
In addition, in April 2020, as part of the response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve issued an interim final rule that temporarily excludes U.S. Treasury securities and deposits at Federal Reserve Banks from the calculation of the supplementary leverage ratio for BHCs. These exclusions became effective on April 1, 2020, and will remain in effect through March 31, 2021.
Subsequently, in May 2020, the Federal Banking Agencies issued an interim final rule that provides an option for depository institutions to make similar exclusions to the calculation of the supplementary leverage ratio. If a depository institution elects to make such exclusions, it must request prior approval from its primary federal banking regulator before making capital distributions, such as paying dividends to its parent company, for as long as the exclusions are in effect. Neither CONA nor COBNA elected to make such exclusions.
Market Risk Rule
The “Market Risk Rule” supplements the Basel III Capital Rules by requiring institutions subject to the Market Risk Rule to adjust their risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk in their trading portfolios. The Market Risk Rule generally applies to institutions with aggregate trading assets and liabilities equal to the lesser of 10% or more of total assets or $1 billion or more. The Company and CONA are subject to the Market Risk Rule. See “MD&A—Market Risk Profile” below for additional information.
FDICIA and Prompt Corrective Action
The FDICIA requires the Federal Banking Agencies to take “prompt corrective action” for banks that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The FDICIA establishes five capital ratio levels: well capitalized; adequately capitalized; undercapitalized; significantly undercapitalized; and critically undercapitalized. The three undercapitalized categories are based upon the amount by which a bank falls below the ratios applicable to an adequately capitalized institution. The capital categories relate to the FDICIA’s prompt corrective action (“PCA”) provisions, and such capital categories may not constitute an accurate representation of the Banks’ overall financial condition or prospects.
The Basel III Capital Rules updated the PCA framework to reflect new, higher regulatory capital minimums. For an insured depository institution to be well capitalized, it must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% or more; a CET1 capital ratio of 6.5% or more; and a leverage ratio of 5% or more. An adequately capitalized depository institution must maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or more; a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or more; a CET1 capital ratio of 4.5% or more; a leverage ratio of 4% or more; and, for Category III and certain other institutions under the Tailoring Rules, a supplementary leverage ratio of 3% or more. The PCA provisions also authorize the Federal Banking Agencies to reclassify a bank’s capital category or take other action against banks that are determined to be in an unsafe or unsound condition or to have engaged in unsafe or unsound banking practices.
								
	
13
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions, the FDICIA required the Federal Banking Agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and soundness standards. The standards adopted by the Federal Banking Agencies relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure and executive compensation. The Federal Banking Agencies are authorized to take action against institutions that fail to meet such standards.
Basel III and United States Liquidity Rules
The Basel Committee has published a liquidity framework that includes two standards for liquidity risk supervision. One standard, the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”), seeks to promote short-term resilience by requiring organizations to hold sufficient high-quality liquid assets (“HQLAs”) to survive a stress scenario lasting for 30 days. The other standard, the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”), seeks to promote longer-term resilience by requiring sufficient stable funding over a one-year period based on the liquidity characteristics of the organization’s assets and activities.
The Company and the Banks are subject to the LCR standard as implemented by the Federal Reserve and OCC (the “LCR Rule”). The LCR Rule requires the Company and each of the Banks to hold an amount of eligible HQLA that equals or exceeds 100% of its respective projected adjusted net cash outflows over a 30-day period, each as calculated in accordance with the LCR Rule. The LCR Rule requires us to calculate our LCR daily. In addition, the Company is required to make quarterly public disclosures of its LCR and certain related quantitative liquidity metrics, along with a qualitative discussion of its LCR.
Under the Tailoring Rules, as a Category III institution with less than $75 billion in weighted average short-term wholesale funding, the Company’s and the Banks’ total net cash outflows are multiplied by an outflow adjustment percentage of 85%. Although the Banks may hold more HQLA than they need to meet their LCR requirements, the LCR Rule restricts the amount of such excess HQLA held at the Banks (referred to as “Trapped Liquidity”) that can be included in the Company’s HQLA amount. Because we typically manage the Banks’ LCRs to levels well above 100%, the amount of Trapped Liquidity will also increase as the Banks’ total net cash outflows are reduced by the outflow adjustment percentage of 85%. 
In October 2020, the Federal Banking Agencies finalized a rule to implement the NSFR in the United States (the “NSFR Rule”). The NSFR Rule requires the Company and each of the Banks to maintain an amount of available stable funding, which is a weighted measure of a company’s funding sources over a one-year time horizon, calculated by applying standardized weightings to equity and liabilities based on their expected stability, that is no less than the amount of required stable funding, which is calculated by applying standardized weightings to assets, derivatives exposures and certain other items based on their liquidity characteristics. As a Category III institution, the Company and the Banks are subject to an NSFR requirement equal to 85% of the full NSFR requirement. The NSFR Rule will become effective as of July 1, 2021 and will apply to the Company and each of the Banks. The NSFR Rule includes a semi-annual disclosure requirement, with the first public disclosure required after June 30, 2023.
Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Related Requirements
We are subject to certain enhanced prudential standards under the Dodd-Frank Act, as amended by the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (“EGRRCPA”) and implemented by various regulations issued by the Federal Banking Agencies. The Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) may also issue recommendations to the Federal Reserve or other primary financial regulatory agencies to apply new or enhanced standards to certain financial activities or practices.
As part of the enhanced prudential standards, the Company is required to implement resolution planning for orderly resolution in the event it faces material financial distress or failure. The FDIC issued similar rules regarding resolution planning applicable to the Banks. In addition, the OCC has issued rules requiring banks with assets of $250 billion or more to develop recovery plans detailing the actions they would take to remain a going concern when they experience considerable financial or operational stress, but have not deteriorated to the point that resolution is imminent.
The enhanced prudential standards also include supervisory and company-run stress testing requirements (also known as the “DFAST stress testing requirements”). In particular, the Federal Reserve is required to conduct annual stress tests on certain covered companies, including us, to ensure that the covered companies have sufficient capital to absorb losses and continue operations during adverse economic conditions. Under the stress capital buffer framework, the result of our supervisory stress test will be used to determine our stress capital buffer requirement. As a covered company that is a Category III institution under the Tailoring Rules, we are also required to conduct our own stress tests and publish the results of such tests on our website or other public forum. The Company must disclose the results of its company-run stress test on a biennial basis. The
								
	
14
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
OCC has adopted a similar stress test rule requiring banks with at least $250 billion in assets, including CONA, to conduct their own company-run stress tests. Under that OCC rule, CONA must also disclose the results of its stress test on a biennial basis.
In addition, the Company is required to meet liquidity risk management standards, conduct internal liquidity stress tests, and maintain a 30-day buffer of highly liquid assets, in each case, consistent with the requirements of the enhanced prudential standards. These requirements are in addition to the LCR and NSFR Rules, discussed above in “Basel III and United States Liquidity Rules.” The enhanced prudential standards also require that the Company comply with, and hold capital commensurate with, the requirements of, any regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve relating to capital planning and stress tests. Stress testing and capital planning regulations are discussed further below under “Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds.” Finally, the Company is also required to establish and maintain an enterprise-wide risk management framework that includes a risk committee and a chief risk officer.
Although not a requirement of the Dodd-Frank Act, the OCC established regulatory guidelines (“Heightened Standards Guidelines”) that apply heightened standards to the governance and risk management practices of large institutions subject to its supervision, including the Banks. The Heightened Standards Guidelines establish standards for the development and implementation by the Banks of a risk governance framework.
Dividends, Stock Repurchases and Transfers of Funds
Under the Federal Reserve’s capital planning rules (commonly referred to as Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review or “CCAR” requirements), a “covered BHC,” such as the Company, must submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis that contains a description of all planned capital actions, including dividends or stock repurchases, over a nine-quarter planning horizon beginning with the first quarter of the calendar year the capital plan is submitted (“CCAR cycle”).
The DFAST stress testing requirements, described above in “Enhanced Prudential Standards and Other Related Requirements,” is a complementary exercise to CCAR. It is a forward-looking exercise conducted by the Federal Reserve and each covered company to help assess whether a company has sufficient capital to absorb losses and continue operations during adverse economic conditions.
Pursuant to the CCAR requirements, the Company must file its capital plan and stress testing results with the Federal Reserve by April 5 of each year (unless the Federal Reserve designates a later date), using data as of the end of the prior calendar year. The Federal Reserve will conduct its supervisory stress test in the second quarter and determine the Company’s stress capital buffer by June 30 of that year. The Company will have two business days from receipt of its stress capital buffer to make any necessary adjustments to its planned capital distributions. The Federal Reserve will then finalize the stress capital buffer requirement for the Company based on its adjusted planned capital distributions and confirm the Company’s planned capital distributions by August 31 of that year. The Company’s final stress capital buffer requirement will be effective from the fourth quarter of the year the capital plan is submitted through the third quarter of the following year. The Company may make the planned capital distributions confirmed by the Federal Reserve. In addition, under the Stress Capital Buffer Rule, the Company is no longer required to seek prior approval of the Federal Reserve to make capital distributions in excess of those included in its capital plan so long as the Company is otherwise in compliance with the capital rule’s automatic limitations on capital distributions.
In December 2018, the Federal Reserve announced that it would maintain its pre-CECL framework for calculating allowances on loans in the supervisory stress test for the 2020 and 2021 cycles until the impact of CECL is better known and understood. The Federal Reserve stated further that, although BHCs required to perform company-run stress tests will be required to incorporate CECL into those stress tests starting in the 2020 cycle, it will not issue supervisory findings on those BHCs’ allowance estimations in the CCAR exercise through 2021.
Historically, dividends from the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiaries have represented a major source of the funds we have used to pay dividends on our capital stock, make payments on our corporate debt securities and meet our other obligations. There are various federal law limitations on the extent to which the Banks can finance or otherwise supply funds to the Company through dividends and loans. These limitations include minimum regulatory capital requirements, federal banking law requirements concerning the payment of dividends out of net profits or surplus, provisions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W governing transactions between an insured depository institution and its affiliates, as well as general federal regulatory oversight to prevent unsafe or unsound practices. In general, federal and applicable state banking laws prohibit insured depository institutions, such as the Banks, from making dividend distributions without first
								
	
15
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
obtaining regulatory approval if such distributions are not paid out of available earnings or would cause the institution to fail to meet applicable capital adequacy standards.
In June 2020, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve required all CCAR participating BHCs, including us, to update and resubmit their capital plans in the fourth quarter of 2020. In addition, the Federal Reserve required all participating BHCs, including us, to preserve capital by suspending share repurchases and capping common stock dividend payments for the third and fourth quarters of 2020 to the lower of (i) the amount paid in the second quarter of 2020 and (ii) an amount equal to the average net income earned across the four preceding calendar quarters. Scheduled payments on additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments, such as preferred stock and subordinated debt, were not similarly restricted.
We conducted a second round of stress tests and submitted our updated capital plan to the Federal Reserve on November 2, 2020. On December 18, 2020, the Federal Reserve released the results of its second round of supervisory stress tests. The Federal Reserve did not recalculate our stress capital buffer requirement at that time, but reserved its ability to do so until March 31, 2021. Finally, the Federal Reserve extended the capital distribution restrictions for all participating BHCs through at least the first quarter of 2021, with certain modifications. In particular, for the first quarter of 2021, participating BHCs may resume share repurchases, but the aggregate amount of common stock dividend payments and share repurchases shall not exceed an amount equal to the average net income earned across the four preceding calendar quarters. In addition, common stock dividend payments for the first quarter of 2021 continue to be capped at the amount paid in the second quarter of 2020.
Investment in the Company and the Banks
Certain acquisitions of our capital stock may be subject to regulatory approval or notice under federal or state law. Investors are responsible for ensuring that they do not, directly or indirectly, acquire shares of our capital stock in excess of the amount that can be acquired without regulatory approval, including under the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act (“CIBC Act”).
Federal law and regulations prohibit any person or company from acquiring control of the Company or the Banks without, in most cases, prior written approval of the Federal Reserve or the OCC, as applicable. Control under the BHC Act exists if, among other things, a person or company acquires more than 25% of any class of our voting stock or otherwise has a controlling influence over us. A rebuttable presumption of control arises under the CIBC Act for a publicly traded BHC such as ourselves if a person or company acquires more than 10% of any class of our voting stock.
Additionally, COBNA and CONA are “banks” within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 6.1 of the Code of Virginia governing the acquisition of interests in Virginia financial institutions (“Financial Institution Holding Company Act”). The Financial Institution Holding Company Act prohibits any person or entity from acquiring, or making any public offer to acquire, control of a Virginia financial institution or its holding company without making application to, and receiving prior approval from, the Virginia Bureau of Financial Institutions.
Deposit Insurance Assessments
Each of CONA and COBNA, as an insured depository institution, is a member of the DIF maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits of insured depository institutions up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The FDIC sets a Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the DIF. To maintain the DIF, member institutions may be assessed an insurance premium, and the FDIC may take action to increase insurance premiums if the DRR falls below its required level.
As of June 30, 2020, the DIF reserve ratio fell to 1.30 percent. The FDIC, as required under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, established a plan in September 2020, to restore the DIF reserve ratio to meet or exceed 1.35 percent within eight years. The FDIC’s restoration plan projects the reserve ratio to exceed 1.35 percent without increasing the deposit insurance assessment rate, subject to ongoing monitoring over the next eight years.
Source of Strength and Liability for Commonly Controlled Institutions
Under regulations issued by the Federal Reserve, a BHC must serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to its subsidiary banks (the so-called “source of strength doctrine”). The Dodd-Frank Act codified this doctrine.
Under the “cross-guarantee” provision of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), insured depository institutions such as the Banks may be liable to the FDIC with respect to any loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of, or FDIC assistance to, any commonly
								
	
16
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
controlled insured depository institution. The Banks are commonly controlled within the meaning of the FIRREA cross-guarantee provision.
FDIC Orderly Liquidation Authority
The Dodd-Frank Act provides the FDIC with liquidation authority that may be used to liquidate non-bank financial companies and BHCs if the Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President and based on the recommendation of the Federal Reserve and other appropriate Federal Banking Agencies, determines that doing so is necessary, among other criteria, to mitigate serious adverse effects on U.S. financial stability. Upon such a determination, the FDIC would be appointed receiver and must liquidate the company in a way that mitigates significant risks to financial stability and minimizes moral hazard. The costs of a liquidation of the company would be borne by shareholders and unsecured creditors and then, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies. The FDIC has issued rules implementing certain provisions of its liquidation authority and may issue additional rules in the future.
COVID-19 Activities
In response to disruptions in economic conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, federal and state governments and agencies and government‑sponsored enterprises have taken a variety of actions to support people and entities affected by the pandemic, including the passage of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) in March 2020. The CARES Act, among other provisions, authorized a number of lending programs to support the flow of credit to consumers and businesses. For example, the CARES Act established several programs with the Small Business Administration, including the PPP, to provide loans to small businesses.
The Federal Reserve had also taken extraordinary efforts in response to the pandemic, including, among other actions, the establishment of a Main Street Lending Program that is intended to support lending to eligible small and midsize businesses. The Federal Banking Agencies had also encouraged banking organizations to take certain additional actions to support the financial services needs of their customers in a prudent and safe and sound manner, including through loan modifications. Further, banking organizations had been provided with certain accounting, supervisory and regulatory relief during this period, including relief that is intended to allow banking organizations to enter into loan modifications without certain accounting and regulatory capital consequences. For example, the CARES Act gave banking organizations an option to temporarily suspend the determination of certain qualified loans modified as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic as being troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”). See “MD&A—Credit Risk Profile—COVID-19 Customer Assistance Programs and Loan Modifications” for additional information. The CARES Act also amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act to impose new, temporary reporting requirements on furnishers of information to consumer reporting agencies related to accounts of consumers in payment accommodation programs in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, which was enacted in December 2020, extends certain relief provided by the CARES Act while also modifying or clarifying certain other provisions. Among other amendments to the CARES Act, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, extends the relief related to TDRs until January 1, 2022 and the PPP until March 31, 2021. In addition, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, rescinds certain funds that were appropriated to the U.S. Treasury to provide loans, loan guarantees, and make other investments in programs or facilities established by the Federal Reserve, and prohibits the Federal Reserve from making any new investments, loans or loan guarantees, or extensions of credit through those rescinded funds after December 31, 2020. Congress could determine to reauthorize these programs in future legislative packages. Federal Reserve programs and facilities that were not established using CARES Act funding are not affected by the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021.
For a discussion of the risks associated with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the heading “The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted our business, operations and financial results, and the extent to which the pandemic and measures taken in response to the pandemic could materially and adversely impact our business, operations, financial condition, liquidity, capital and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict.”
Regulation of Businesses by Authorities Outside the United States
COBNA is subject to regulation in foreign jurisdictions where it operates, currently in the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Canada.
								
	
17
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, COBNA operates through COEP, which was established in 2000 and is an authorized payment institution regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. COEP’s indirect parent, Capital One Global Corporation, is wholly-owned by COBNA and is subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve as an “agreement corporation” under the Federal Reserve’s Regulation K.
Previously, the FCA set a deadline of August 29, 2019 (“the Deadline”) for the submission of complaints to firms (including COEP) that had previously sold Payment Protection Insurance (“PPI”) to its customers. In order to ensure complainants are treated fairly, the FCA closely supervises all large lenders (including COEP). COEP has now finished handling almost all complaints it received prior to the Deadline and is in the process of finalizing all remaining complaints, through continued discussions with third parties. Escalations to the Financial Ombudsman Service (“FOS”) are permitted to take place until the first quarter of 2021.
Canada
In Canada, COBNA operates as an authorized foreign bank pursuant to the Bank Act (Canada) (“Bank Act”) and is permitted to conduct its credit card business in Canada through its Canadian branch, Capital One Bank (Canada Branch) (“Capital One Canada”). The primary regulator of Capital One Canada is the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions. Other regulators include the Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (“FCAC”), the Office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, and the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada. Capital One Canada is subject to regulation under various Canadian federal laws, including the Bank Act and its regulations, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act.
On December 13, 2018, Bill C-86, Budget Implementation Act, 2018, No. 2 was passed by Parliament. Among other things, Bill C-86 amends the Bank Act (Canada) to consolidate and strengthen provisions that apply to banks and authorized foreign banks in the areas of consumer protection, corporate governance, business practices, public reporting, disclosure of information and access to basic banking services. Bill C-86 also amends the FCAC Act to enhance the role and powers of the FCAC by increasing the maximum penalty for a violation of the consumer protection provisions of the Bank Act from 50,000 Canadian dollars (“CAD”) for natural persons and 500,000 CAD in the case of financial institutions or a payment card network to 1 million CAD and 10 million CAD, respectively. We are continuing to analyze the impacts of Bill C-86 and the final regulations related thereto in order to determine its applicability and impact to our business.
In August 2018, the Government of Canada announced new voluntary commitments from Visa Canada and MasterCard Canada, which took effect when the original commitments ended in 2020. As part of their new commitments, Visa and Mastercard will further reduce interchange fees for consumer credit cards by approximately 10 basis points to an annual average effective rate of 1.4% for a period of five years. Visa and Mastercard will also narrow the range of interchange rates (lowest vs. highest fee) charged to businesses.
								
	
18
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
		
HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES
Our culture is rooted in putting people first with a focus on building and maintaining a workforce which fosters an inclusive environment based on diversity of our people, ideas and the merit of our work. Our workforce is our largest and one of our most valuable assets. We prioritize the recruitment, development, recognition, and retention of the 51,985 employees worldwide that we had as of December 31, 2020, whom we refer to as “associates.” The following disclosures provide information on our human capital resources, including certain human capital objectives and measures that we focus on in managing our business.
Governance of Human Capital
Our full Board of Directors oversees our human capital management, including strategies, policies and practices, and diversity, inclusion and belonging (“DIB”), and is assisted by our Board’s Compensation Committee and Governance and Nominating Committee. Our Executive Committee, a committee of senior management which includes our Chief Human Resources Officer, advises, assists and makes recommendations to our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors on human capital matters such as human resource practices and programs, including general employee benefits and compensation programs. Our Chief Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging Officer (“Chief DIB Officer”) provides an annual update on the progress, success and challenges on workforce representation, trends and programs to the Board of Directors and Executive Committee.
Hiring, Retention and Development
We employ a comprehensive people strategy that includes significant investments in recruiting, sourcing, and associate development to attract and retain top talent from all backgrounds to help drive our business’ long-term success. We recruit through a variety of channels, including professional partnerships, job fairs, online platforms, on-campus recruiting, diversity-related recruiting events and initiatives, and internship and rotational programs, among others. We empower our associates to learn new skills, meet personalized development goals, and grow their careers. Investment in associate training and professional development is critical to maintaining our talent competitiveness. Our internal enterprise learning and development team blends multiple approaches to learning to support associate development across lines of business, levels, and roles, including online and live classroom training. In addition to formal programming provided by learning professionals, including regulatory compliance, role-specific topics and others, our peer-to-peer learning strategy empowers associates to be both learners and teachers, further enhancing a culture of learning. We also focus on cultivating talent with leadership development courses, cohort-based programs, network building, and coaching.
On a quarterly basis, we review our ability to attract and retain talent needed to deliver on our strategic business objectives. Each line of business and staff group reviews hiring, tenure and attrition metrics as part of this assessment, and they implement mitigation plans when needed.
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
We continuously strive to empower our associates to do great work by creating an inclusive workplace and a culture of belonging that values diverse perspectives, fosters collaboration and encourages innovative ideas. We aim to create a place where associates of all backgrounds can thrive by bringing their best, most authentic selves to work. Our diversity and inclusion efforts are overseen by our Chief DIB Officer. This culture of belonging rests at the heart of our DIB efforts. Central to this effort are our business resource groups, associate-led organizations which deepen our understanding of different cultures, people and experiences, and enable associates to build connections, invest in their professional development, and support our commitment to attract, develop and retain a diverse workforce. In addition, our Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Committee engage with leaders of our business resource groups to identify opportunities to further our DIB agenda, enact positive change and build on existing initiatives designed to nurture our culture and workplace environment.
Growing the diversity of our workforce at all levels, with an emphasis on leader and executive roles, is an important component of our comprehensive DIB strategy. As of December 31, 2020, key measures of our workforce representation include:
•Of the 11 members of our Board of Directors, 4 are women and 3 are people of color;
•In the U.S., of the associates who are vice president level and above, approximately 32% are women and 21% are people of color;
•In the U.S., approximately 50% of associates are people of color; and
								
	
19
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
•Worldwide, approximately 52% of associates are women, 47% of associates are men, and 1% of associates are undisclosed/other.
Our corporate website contains additional information regarding programs and other information integral to our philosophy of diversity, inclusion and belonging. We believe in the importance of transparency and will also provide on our website the 2020 Consolidated EEO-1 Report upon submission to the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
Compensation and Wellness
We are committed to providing a competitive total compensation package that will attract, retain and motivate talent to help drive our business’ long-term success. Our benefits, including competitive parental leave, on-site health centers, flexible work solutions, company contributions to associates’ 401(k) plans, educational assistance and other health, wellness, and financial benefits, are all designed to help associates grow and develop inside and outside of the workplace and empower them in their lives. Furthermore, pay equity has long been a core tenet of our pay philosophy and is central to our values. We annually evaluate base pay and incentive pay for all of our associates globally. This review and evaluation may occur more frequently as deemed necessary and prudent. We review groups of associates in similar roles, adjusting for factors that appropriately explain differences in pay such as job location and experience. Based on our analysis, our aggregated adjusted pay gap results show that we pay women 100% of what men are paid, and we pay racial and ethnic minorities in the U.S. 100% of what non-minorities are paid. We use statistical modeling to understand what drives pay gaps, instill new practices to eliminate them in the future, and if we find unexplained pay gaps, we close them.
In 2020, a significant majority of our associates across our workforce have transitioned to working remotely as we prioritize the safety of our associates during the COVID-19 pandemic. For more information on our response to the pandemic, please refer to Part I—Item 1.—Business—Overview—Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Pandemic.
Communication and Connection
We communicate with our associates regularly to understand their perspectives and to hear their voices. Our senior leaders and Chief Executive Officer also communicate directly on societal events impacting our associates. To assess and improve associate retention and engagement, the Company surveys associates on a periodic basis with the assistance of third-party consultants, and takes actions to address areas of associate concern. We encourage full participation and use the results to effect change and promote transparency.
								
	
20
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
		
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Technology/Systems
We leverage information and technology to achieve our business objectives and to develop and deliver products and services that satisfy our customers’ needs. A key part of our strategic focus is the development and use of efficient, flexible computer and operational systems, such as cloud technology, to support complex marketing and account management strategies, the servicing of our customers, and the development of new and diversified products. We believe that the continued development and integration of these systems is an important part of our efforts to reduce costs, improve quality and security and provide faster, more flexible technology services. Consequently, we continuously review capabilities and develop or acquire systems, processes and competencies to meet our unique business requirements.
As part of our continuous efforts to review and improve our technologies, we may either develop such capabilities internally or rely on third-party outsourcers who have the ability to deliver technology that is of higher quality, lower cost, or both. We continue to rely on third-party outsourcers to help us deliver systems and operational infrastructure. These relationships include (but are not limited to): Amazon Web Services, Inc. (“AWS”) for our cloud infrastructure, Total System Services LLC (“TSYS”) for consumer and commercial credit card processing services for our North American and U.K. portfolios, Fidelity Information Services (“FIS”) for certain of our banking systems and International Business Machines Corporation for mainframe managed services.
We are committed to safeguarding our customers’ and our own information and technology, implementing backup and recovery systems, and generally require the same of our third-party service providers. We take measures that mitigate against known attacks and use internal and external resources to scan for vulnerabilities in platforms, systems, and applications necessary for delivering our products and services. For a discussion of the risks associated with our use of technology systems, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the headings “We face risks related to our operational, technological and organizational infrastructure” and “Increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage and business disruptions can result from the theft, loss or misuse of information, including as a result of a cyber-attack.”
Intellectual Property
As part of our overall and ongoing strategy to protect and enhance our intellectual property, we rely on a variety of protections, including copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and certain restrictions on disclosure, solicitation and competition. We also undertake other measures to control access to, or distribution of, our other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use certain intellectual property or proprietary information without authorization. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary information. In addition, our competitors and other third parties also file patent applications for innovations that are used in our industry. The ability of our competitors and other third parties to obtain patents may adversely affect our ability to compete and our financial results. Conversely, our ability to obtain patents may increase our competitive advantage, preserve our freedom to operate, and allow us to enter into licensing (e.g., cross-licenses) or other arrangements with third parties. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in such efforts, or that the ability of our competitors to obtain such patents may not adversely impact our financial results. For a discussion of risks associated with intellectual property, see “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” under the heading “If we are not able to protect our intellectual property, our revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.”
								
	
21
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
		
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
From time to time, we have made and will make forward-looking statements, including those that discuss, among other things, strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters; projections, revenues, income, returns, expenses, capital measures, capital allocation plans, accruals for claims in litigation and for other claims against us; earnings per share, efficiency ratio, operating efficiency ratio, or other financial measures for us; future financial and operating results; our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; and the assumptions that underlie these matters.
To the extent that any such information is forward-looking, it is intended to fit within the safe harbor for forward-looking information provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as “will,” “anticipate,” “target,” “expect,” “estimate,” “intend,” “plan,” “goal,” “believe,” “forecast,” “outlook” or other words of similar meaning. Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date they are made or as of the date indicated, and we do not undertake any obligation to update forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. For additional information on factors that could materially influence forward-looking statements included in this Report, see the risk factors set forth under “Part I—Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report. You should carefully consider the factors discussed above, and in our Risk Factors or other disclosure, in evaluating these forward-looking statements.
Numerous factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements, including, among other things:
•the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the increased estimation and forecast uncertainty as a result of the pandemic on our estimates of lifetime expected credit losses in our loan portfolios required in computing our allowance for credit losses;
•general economic and business conditions in our local markets, including conditions affecting employment levels, interest rates, tariffs, collateral values, consumer income, creditworthiness and confidence, spending and savings that may affect consumer bankruptcies, defaults, charge-offs and deposit activity;
•an increase or decrease in credit losses, or increased delinquencies, including increases due to a worsening of general economic conditions in the credit environment, and the impact of inaccurate estimates or inadequate reserves;
•compliance with new and existing laws, regulations and regulatory expectations including the implementation of a regulatory reform agenda;
•our ability to manage adequate capital or liquidity levels, which could have a negative impact on our financial results and our ability to return capital to our stockholders;
•the extensive use, reliability, disruption, and accuracy of the models and data we rely on;
•increased costs, reductions in revenue, reputational damage, legal liability and business disruptions that can result from data protection or privacy incidents or the theft, loss or misuse of information, including as a result of a cyber-attack;
•developments, changes or actions relating to any litigation, governmental investigation or regulatory enforcement action or matter involving us;
•the amount and rate of deposit growth and changes in deposit costs;
•our ability to execute on our strategic and operational plans;
•our response to competitive pressures;
•our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by merchants’ increasing focus on the fees charged by credit card networks and by legislation and regulation impacting such fees;
•our success in integrating acquired businesses and loan portfolios, and our ability to realize anticipated benefits from announced transactions and strategic partnerships;
								
	
22
	Capital One Financial Corporation (COF)
Table of Contents
•our ability to maintain a compliance, operational, technology and organizational infrastructure suitable for the nature of our business;
•the success of our marketing efforts in attracting and retaining customers;
•our risk management strategies;
•changes in the reputation of, or expectations regarding, the financial services industry or us with respect to practices, products or financial condition;
•increases or decreases in interest rates and uncertainty with respect to the interest rate environment, including the possibility of a prolonged low-interest rate environment or of negative interest rates;
•uncertainty regarding, and transition away from, the London Interbank Offering Rate;
•our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled employees;
•our assumptions or estimates in our financial statements;
•limitations on our ability to receive dividends from our subsidiaries;
•the soundness of other financial institutions and other third parties; and
•other risk factors identified from time to time in our public disclosures, including in the reports that we file with the SEC.
We expect that the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic will heighten the risks associated with many of these factors.
