Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation is an independent oil and gas company engaged in the development, exploitation, exploration and production of oil and gas properties. Our assets are concentrated in areas with known hydrocarbon resources, which are conducive to multi-well, repeatable drilling programs. We operate in one segment, natural gas development, exploitation, exploration and production, in the continental United States. We have offices located in Houston, Texas and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
STRATEGY
Our objective is to enhance shareholder value through the commodity price cycles by maintaining our disciplined approach to returns-focused capital allocation. While we operate in a cyclical industry, driven by the volatility of commodity prices, we believe that focusing on the following key components of our business strategy positions us to succeed on creating shareholder value through the commodity price cycles.
Focus on financial returns. Our goal is to generate financial returns that exceed our cost of capital by focusing on disciplined capital investment and maintaining a low cost structure. In 2020, our return on capital employed (non-GAAP) was 7.6 percent, a decrease from 22.2 percent in 2019. The decrease was driven by significantly lower natural gas prices in 2020 compared to 2019. Commodity prices play a critical role in our capital allocation decisions and have a significant impact on our financial returns.
Demonstrate continued cost control. Underpinning our financial returns is our continued focus on cost control, which resulted in a slight reduction of one percent in operating expenses per unit in 2020 relative to 2019. We believe maintaining a low cost structure provides us with a competitive advantage, especially in a low natural gas price environment. We will continue to assess additional opportunities to reduce our operating expenses per unit over time.
Maintain financial strength. We believe that maintaining a strong balance sheet with significant financial flexibility is imperative in a cyclical industry that is exposed to commodity price volatility. In recent years, we have reduced our absolute debt levels, and we anticipate retiring the current portion of our debt at maturity in 2021. Additionally, we ended 2020 with strong liquidity resulting from $140.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1.5 billion of unused commitments on our revolving credit facility.
Generate positive free cash flow. We believe generating positive free cash flow is paramount to creating shareholder value. Our disciplined approach to capital allocation allows us to adjust our capital spending and activity levels in response to commodity prices in order to maximize positive free cash flow through the price cycles. Our free cash flow is used for returning capital to shareholders, reducing debt levels and enhancing liquidity. In 2020, we generated $778.2 million in cash flow from operations (GAAP) and $109.1 million of free cash flow (non-GAAP), representing our fifth consecutive year of positive free cash flow generation.
Return capital to shareholders. We plan to continue to prioritize returning capital to shareholders through all commodity price cycles. In 2020, we returned $159.4 million of capital to shareholders, representing 146 percent of our free cash flow for the year. We have increased our dividend five times since 2017 and since reinstating our share repurchase program in 2017, we have reduced our shares outstanding by over 14 percent. In February 2021, we announced an updated capital return framework. We intend to implement a "base plus supplemental" dividend approach. Under this updated capital return framework, we plan to continue to deliver our regular quarterly base dividend and to supplement our regular quarterly base dividends with an annual supplemental dividend to return capital equal to a minimum of 50 percent of annual free cash flow. Any excess free cash flow above 50 percent of annual free cash flow is expected to be utilized for balance sheet enhancement, additional supplemental dividends, or opportunistic share repurchases, depending on market conditions.
Increase our proved reserve base. In 2020, we increased our year-end proved reserves by six percent at an all-sources finding and development cost (non-GAAP) of $0.35 per Mcfe. We also replaced 190 percent of our production for the year. We intend to continue to increase our proved reserves through our disciplined investment in the development of our Marcellus Shale asset assuming the commodity price environment provides for economic returns for our shareholders.
Focus on safe, responsible and sustainable operations. We believe that safe, responsible and sustainable operations are important tenants of our overall business strategy. Our safety programs are built on a foundation that emphasizes personal responsibility and safety leadership, while our operational focus is based on making our operations more environmentally and socially sustainable by actively implementing technology across our operations from design phase to equipment improvements to limit and reduce our methane emissions. In addition, we focus on practical and sustainable environmental initiatives that
7
Table of Contents
promote efficient use of water and protect water quality, eliminate releases, and minimize land surface impact. Because we are a producer of 100 percent natural gas, we believe we have a competitive advantage as it relates to the production of clean energy and our overall carbon footprint on the environment.
Refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for a discussion and calculation of return on capital employed, free cash flow and finding and development cost, which are non-GAAP financial measures.
2021 OUTLOOK
Our 2021 capital program is expected to be approximately $530.0 million to $540.0 million, representing a six percent reduction, at the midpoint of the range, from our 2020 capital program of $569.8 million. We reduced our planned capital expenditures, which contemplates a maintenance capital program, as a result of the weaker natural gas price environment. We expect to fund these expenditures with our operating cash flow and, if required, cash on hand.
In 2021, our capital program will focus on the Marcellus Shale, where we expect to drill and complete 80 net wells. We allocate our planned program for capital expenditures based on market conditions, return on capital and free cash flow expectations and availability of services and human resources. We will continue to assess the natural gas price environment and may adjust our capital expenditures accordingly.
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES
Our operations are primarily concentrated in one unconventional play—the Marcellus Shale in northeast Pennsylvania. Our Marcellus Shale properties represent our primary operating area and are principally located in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, where we currently hold approximately 175,000 net acres in the dry gas window of the play. Our 2020 net production in the Marcellus Shale was 857 Bcfe, representing substantially all of our total equivalent production for the year. As of December 31, 2020, we had a total of 865.9 net wells in the Marcellus Shale, of which approximately 99.5 percent are operated by us.
During 2020, we invested $562.1 million in the Marcellus Shale and drilled or participated in drilling 64.3 net wells, completed 77.3 net wells and turned in line 69.2 net wells. As of December 31, 2020, we had 13.0 net wells that were either in the completion stage or waiting on completion or connection to a pipeline. We exited 2020 with three drilling rigs operating in the play and plan to exit 2021 with two rigs operating.
DIVESTITURES
In July 2018, we sold certain proved and unproved oil and gas properties in the Haynesville Shale to a third party for $30.0 million and recognized a gain on sale of oil and gas properties of $29.7 million.
In February 2018, we sold certain proved and unproved oil and gas properties in the Eagle Ford Shale to an affiliate of Venado Oil & Gas LLC for $765.0 million. During the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded an impairment charge of $414.3 million associated with the proposed sale of these properties and upon closing recognized a loss on sale of oil and gas properties of $45.4 million.
In September 2017, we sold certain proved and unproved oil and gas properties and related pipeline assets located in West Virginia, Virginia and Ohio to an affiliate of Carbon Natural Gas Company for $41.3 million. During the second quarter of 2017, we recorded an impairment charge of $68.6 million associated with the proposed sale of these properties and upon closing the sale in the third quarter of 2017, we recognized a loss on sale of oil and gas properties of $11.9 million.
In February 2016, we sold certain proved and unproved oil and gas properties in east Texas to a third party for $56.4 million and recognized a $0.5 million gain on sale of assets.
MARKETING
Substantially all of our natural gas is sold at market sensitive prices under both long-term and short-term sales contracts and is subject to seasonal price swings. The principal markets for our natural gas are in the northeastern United States where we sell natural gas to industrial customers, local distribution companies, gas marketers and power generation facilities.
We also incur transportation and gathering expenses to move our natural gas production from the wellhead to our principal markets in the United States. The majority of our natural gas production is transported on third-party gathering systems and interstate pipelines where we have long-term contractual capacity arrangements or use purchaser-owned capacity under both long-term and short-term sales contracts.
8
Table of Contents
To date, we have not experienced significant difficulty in transporting or marketing our natural gas production as it becomes available; however, there is no assurance that we will always be able to transport and market all of our production.
Delivery Commitments
We have entered into various firm sales contracts to deliver and sell natural gas. We believe we will have sufficient production quantities to meet substantially all of our commitments, but may be required to purchase natural gas from third parties to satisfy shortfalls should they occur.
A summary of our firm sales commitments as of December 31, 2020 are set forth in the table below:
								
		Natural Gas (Bcf)
2021		612.4 	
2022		616.9 	
2023		608.9 	
2024		566.4 	
2025		542.0 	

We utilize a part of our firm transportation capacity to deliver natural gas under the majority of these firm sales contracts and have entered into numerous agreements for transportation of our production. Some of these contracts have volumetric requirements which could require monetary shortfall penalties if our production is inadequate to meet the terms. However, we do not believe we have a financial commitment due based on our current proved reserves and production levels from which we can fulfill these obligations.
RISK MANAGEMENT
From time to time, we use derivative financial instruments to manage price risk associated with our natural gas production. While there are many different types of derivatives available, we generally utilize collar, swap and basis swap agreements designed to manage price risk more effectively. The collar arrangements are a combination of put and call options used to establish floor and ceiling prices for a fixed volume of natural gas production during a certain time period. They provide for payments to counterparties if the index price exceeds the ceiling and payments from the counterparties if the index price falls below the floor. The swap agreements call for payments to, or receipts from, counterparties based on whether the index price for the period is greater or less than the fixed price established for the particular period under the swap agreement.
During 2020, natural gas collars with floor prices ranging from $1.90 to $2.15 per Mmbtu and ceiling prices ranging from $2.10 to $2.38 per Mmbtu covered 92.3 Bcf, or 11 percent, of natural gas production at a weighted-average price of $2.09 per Mmbtu. Natural gas swaps covered 53.5 Bcf, or six percent, of natural gas production at a weighted-average price of $2.24 per Mmbtu.
As of December 31, 2020, we had the following outstanding financial commodity derivatives:
																																												
						Collars		
						Floor		Ceiling		Swaps
Type of Contract		Volume (Mmbtu)		Contract Period		Range
($/Mmbtu)		Weighted-
Average
($/Mmbtu)		Range
($/Mmbtu)		Weighted-
Average
($/Mmbtu)		Weighted-
Average
($/Mmbtu)
Natural gas (NYMEX)		18,250,000 			Jan. 2021-Dec. 2021										$	2.74 	
Natural gas (NYMEX)		164,250,000 			Jan. 2021-Dec. 2021		$2.50 - $2.85		$	2.68 			$2.83 - $3.94		$	3.09 			
Natural gas (NYMEX)		10,700,000 			Apr. 2021-Oct. 2021		$	— 			$	2.50 			$	— 			$	2.80 			
Natural gas (NYMEX)		10,700,000 			Apr. 2021-Oct. 2021										$	2.75 	
In early 2021, the Company entered into the following financial commodity derivatives:
																				
						Swaps
Type of Contract		Volume (Mmbtu)		Contract Period		Weighted- Average ($/Mmbtu)
Natural gas (NYMEX)		10,700,000		Apr. 2021-Oct. 2021		$	2.81 	

9
Table of Contents
A significant portion of our expected natural gas production for 2021 and beyond is currently unhedged and directly exposed to the volatility in natural gas prices, whether favorable or unfavorable. We will continue to evaluate the benefit of using derivatives in the future. Please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for further discussion related to our use of derivatives.
RESERVES
The following table presents our estimated proved reserves for the periods indicated:
																	
 	December 31,
 	2020		2019		2018
Natural Gas (Bcf)			 		 
Proved developed reserves	8,608 			8,056 			7,402 	
Proved undeveloped reserves(1)
	5,064 			4,847 			4,202 	
	13,672 			12,903 			11,604 	
Crude Oil & NGLs (Mbbl)(2)
					
Proved developed reserves	15 			22 			107 	
Proved undeveloped reserves(1)
	— 			— 			13 	
	15 			22 			120 	
					
Natural gas equivalent (Bcfe)(3)
	13,672 			12,903 			11,605 	
Reserve life index (in years)(4)
	15.9 			14.9 			15.8 	
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)Proved undeveloped reserves for 2020, 2019 and 2018 include reserves drilled but uncompleted of 241.0 Bcfe, 783.2 Bcfe and 631.6 Bcfe, respectively.
(2)There were no significant NGL reserves for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(3)Natural gas equivalents are determined using a ratio of 6 Mcf of natural gas to 1 Bbl of crude oil, condensate or NGLs.
(4)Reserve life index is equal to year-end proved reserves divided by annual production for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Our proved reserves at December 31, 2020 increased 769 Bcfe or six percent from 12,903 Bcfe at December 31, 2019. In 2020, we added 1,974 Bcfe of proved reserves through extensions, discoveries and other additions, primarily due to the results from our drilling and completion program in the Dimock field in northeast Pennsylvania. We also had a net downward revision of 347 Bcfe, which was primarily due to a net downward performance revision of 245 Bcfe and a downward revision of 66 Bcfe associated with proved undeveloped (PUD) reserves reclassifications as a result of the five-year limitation. The net downward performance revision of 245 Bcfe was primarily due to a downward performance revision of 368 Bcfe related to certain proved developed producing properties, partially offset by an upward revision of 123 Bcfe associated with our PUD reserves due to performance revisions and the drilling of longer lateral length wells. During 2020, we produced 858 Bcfe.
Since substantially all of our reserves are natural gas, our reserves are significantly more sensitive to natural gas prices and their effect on the economic productive life of producing properties. Our reserves are based on the 12-month average index price for the respective commodity, calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average for the first day of the month price for each month during the year. Increases in commodity prices may result in a longer economic productive life of a property or result in more economically viable proved undeveloped reserves to be recognized. Decreases in prices may result in negative impacts of this nature.
For additional information regarding estimates of proved reserves, the audit of such estimates by Miller and Lents, Ltd. (Miller and Lents) and other information about our reserves, including the risks inherent in our estimates of proved reserves, refer to the Supplemental Oil and Gas Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 and “Risk Factors—Business and Operational Risks—Our proved reserves are estimates. Any material inaccuracies in our reserve estimates or underlying assumptions could cause the quantities and net present value of our reserves to be overstated or understated” in Item 1A.
10
Table of Contents
Technologies Used In Reserves Estimates
We utilize various traditional methods to estimate our reserves, including decline curve extrapolations, material balance calculations, volumetric calculations, analogies, and in some cases a combination of these methods. In addition, at times we may use seismic interpretations to confirm continuity of a formation in combination with traditional technologies; however, seismic interpretations are not used in the volumetric computation.
Internal Control
Our Senior Vice President, EHS and Engineering is the technical person responsible for our internal reserves estimation process and provides oversight of our corporate reservoir engineering department, which consists of two engineers, and the annual audit of our year-end reserves by Miller and Lents. He has a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical Engineering, specializing in petroleum engineering, and over 38 years of industry experience with positions of increasing responsibility in operations, engineering and evaluations. He has worked in the area of reserves and reservoir engineering for 29 years and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
Our reserves estimation process is coordinated by our corporate reservoir engineering department. Reserve information, including models and other technical data, are stored on secured databases on our network. Certain non-technical inputs used in the reserves estimation process, including commodity prices, production and development costs and ownership percentages, are obtained by other departments and are subject to testing as part of our annual internal control process. We also engage Miller and Lents, independent petroleum engineers, to perform an independent audit of our estimated proved reserves. Upon completion of the process, the estimated reserves are presented to senior management.
Miller and Lents has audited 100 percent of our proved reserves estimates and concluded, in their judgment, we have an effective system for gathering data and documenting information required to estimate our proved reserves and project our future revenues. Further, Miller and Lents has concluded (1) the reserves estimation methods employed by us were appropriate, and our classification of such reserves was appropriate to the relevant SEC reserve definitions, (2) our reserves estimation processes were comprehensive and of sufficient quality, (3) the data upon which we relied were adequate and of sufficient quality, and (4) the results of our estimates and projections are, in the aggregate, reasonable. A copy of the audit letter by Miller and Lents dated January 27, 2021, has been filed as an exhibit to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Qualifications of Third Party Engineers
The technical person primarily responsible for the audit of our reserves estimates at Miller and Lents meets the requirements regarding qualifications, independence, objectivity, and confidentiality set forth in the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers. Miller and Lents is an independent firm of petroleum engineers, geologists, geophysicists, and petro physicists; they do not own an interest in our properties and are not retained on a contingent fee basis.
Proved Undeveloped Reserves
At December 31, 2020, we had 5,064 Bcfe of PUD reserves associated with future development costs of $1.4 billion, which represents an increase of 217 Bcfe compared to December 31, 2019. All of our PUD reserves are located in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. We expect to complete substantially all of our PUD reserves associated with drilled but uncompleted wells by the end of 2021. Future development plans are reflective of the lower commodity price environment and have been established based on expected available cash flows from operations and availability under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2020, all PUD reserves are expected to be drilled and completed within five years of initial disclosure of these reserves.
The following table is a reconciliation of the change in our PUD reserves (Bcfe):
					
 	Year Ended December 31, 2020
Balance at beginning of period	4,847 	
Transfers to proved developed	(1,785)	
Additions	1,945 	
Revision of prior estimates	57 	
Balance at end of period	5,064 	
11
Table of Contents
Changes in PUD reserves that occurred during the year were due to:
•transfer of 1,785 Bcfe from PUD to proved developed reserves based on total capital expenditures of $455.5 million during 2020;
•new PUD reserve additions of 1,945 Bcfe in the Dimock field in northeast Pennsylvania; and
•upward PUD reserve revisions of 57 Bcfe resulting from upward performance revisions of 123 Bcfe associated with performance revisions along with the drilling of longer lateral wells, partially offset by downward revisions of 66 Bcfe associated with PUD reclassifications as a result of the five-year limitation.
PRODUCTION, SALES PRICE AND PRODUCTION COSTS
The following table presents historical information about our production volumes for natural gas and oil (including NGLs), average natural gas and crude oil sales prices, and average production costs per equivalent. Substantially all of our total company historical operational information and proved reserves are derived from our Dimock field in northeast Pennsylvania:
																	
 	Year Ended December 31,
 	2020		2019		2018
Production Volumes
	 		 		 
Natural gas (Bcf)	857.7 			865.3 			729.9 	
Oil (Mbbl)(1)
	— 			— 			829 	
Equivalents (Bcfe)	857.7 			865.3 			735.0 	
					
Average Sales Price
	 		 		 
Natural gas excluding realized impact of derivative settlements ($/Mcf)
	$	1.64 			$	2.29 			$	2.58 	
Natural gas including realized impact of derivative settlements ($/Mcf)
	$	1.68 			$	2.45 			$	2.54 	
Oil excluding realized impact of derivative settlements ($/Bbl)
	$	— 			$	— 			$	64.51 	
Oil including realized impact of derivative settlements ($/Bbl)
	$	— 			$	— 			$	63.53 	
					
Average Production Costs ($/Mcfe)	$	0.06 			$	0.06 			$	0.05 	
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)There was no significant NGL production for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 and less than one percent of our equivalent production for the year ended December 31, 2018. NGL production represented 8.5 percent of our crude oil production for the year ended December 31, 2018.
ACREAGE
Our interest in both developed and undeveloped properties is primarily in the form of leasehold interests held under customary mineral leases. These leases provide us the right to develop oil and/or natural gas on the properties. Their primary terms range in length from approximately three to 10 years. These properties are held for longer periods if production is established.
12
Table of Contents
The following table summarizes our gross and net developed and undeveloped leasehold and mineral fee acreage at December 31, 2020:
																																			
 	Developed		
Undeveloped (1)
		Total
 	Gross		Net		Gross		Net		Gross		Net
Leasehold acreage	159,795 			157,490 			790,157 			687,677 			949,952 			845,167 	
Mineral fee acreage	877 			877 			181,202 			152,232 			182,079 			153,109 	
Total	160,672 			158,367 			971,359 			839,909 			1,132,031 			998,276 	
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1) Includes leasehold and mineral fee net acreage of 588,154 and 150,033, respectively, associated with deep formations located in West Virginia and Virginia. Substantially all of this leasehold is held by production from shallower formations that are operated by others.
Total Net Undeveloped Acreage Expiration
In the event that production is not established or we take no action to extend or renew the terms of our leases, our net undeveloped acreage that will expire over the next three years as of December 31, 2020 is 13,515, 3,947 and 4,371 for the years ending December 31, 2021, 2022 and 2023, respectively.
As of December 31, 2020, approximately 32 percent of our expiring acreage disclosed above is located in our primary operating area, where we currently expect to continue drilling and completion activities and/or extend lease terms. There were no PUD reserves recorded on any of our expiring acreage outside of our primary operating area.
WELL SUMMARY
The following table presents our ownership in productive natural gas and crude oil wells at December 31, 2020. This summary includes natural gas and crude oil wells in which we have a working interest:
											
 	Gross	 	Net
Natural gas	935 		 	865.9 	
Crude oil	16 		 	0.4 	
Total(1)
	951 		 	866.3 	
_______________________________________________________________________________
(1)Total percentage of gross operated wells is 90.6 percent.
DRILLING ACTIVITY
We drilled and completed wells or participated in the drilling and completion of wells as indicated in the table below. The information below should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should a correlation be assumed between the number of productive wells drilled, quantities of reserves found or economic value.
																																			
 	Year Ended December 31,
 	2020		2019		2018
 	Gross		Net		Gross		Net		Gross		Net
Development Wells											
Productive	74 			64.3 			96 			94.0 			85 			84.0 	
Dry	— 			— 			— 			— 			— 			— 	
Exploratory Wells											
Productive	— 			— 			— 			— 			— 			— 	
Dry	— 			— 			— 			— 			9 			9.0 	
Total	74 			64.3 			96 			94.0 			94 			93.0 	
											
Acquired Wells	— 			— 			— 			— 			— 			— 	
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we completed 26 gross wells (26.0 net) that were drilled in prior years.
13
Table of Contents
The following table sets forth information about wells for which drilling was in progress or which were drilled but uncompleted at December 31, 2020, which are not included in the above table:
																										
		Drilling In Progress		Drilled But Uncompleted
		Gross		Net		Gross		Net
Development wells		11 			11.0 			14 			13.0 	
Exploratory wells		— 			— 			— 			— 	
Total		11 			11.0 			14 			13.0 	
OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS
Title to Properties
We believe that we have satisfactory title to all of our producing properties in accordance with generally accepted industry standards. Individual properties may be subject to burdens such as royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. In addition, interests may be subject to obligations or duties under applicable laws or burdens such as production payments, ordinary course liens incidental to operating agreements and for current taxes or development obligations under oil and gas leases. As is customary in the industry in the case of undeveloped properties, preliminary investigations of record title are made at the time of lease acquisition. Complete investigations are made prior to the consummation of an acquisition of producing properties and before commencement of drilling operations on undeveloped properties.
Competition
The oil and gas industry is highly competitive and we experience strong competition in our primary producing areas. We primarily compete with integrated, independent and other energy companies for the sale and transportation of our natural gas production to marketing companies and end users. Furthermore, the oil and gas industry competes with other energy industries that supply fuel and power to industrial, commercial and residential consumers. Many of these competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources. The effect of these competitive factors cannot be predicted.
Price, contract terms, availability of rigs and related equipment and quality of service, including pipeline connection times and distribution efficiencies affect competition. We believe that our concentrated acreage position and our access to gathering and pipeline infrastructure in Pennsylvania, along with our expected activity level and the related services and equipment that we have secured for the upcoming years, enhance our competitive position over other producers who do not have similar systems or services in place.
Major Customers
During the year ended December 31, 2020, three customers accounted for approximately 21 percent, 16 percent and 12 percent of our total sales. During the year ended December 31, 2019, three customers accounted for approximately 17 percent, 16 percent and 16 percent of our total sales. During the year ended December 31, 2018, two customers accounted for approximately 20 percent and 11 percent of our total sales. We do not believe that the loss of any of these customers would have a material adverse effect on us because alternative customers are readily available.
Seasonality
Demand for natural gas has historically been seasonal, with peak demand and typically higher prices occurring during the winter months.
Regulation of Oil and Natural Gas Exploration and Production
Exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. This regulation includes requiring permits to drill wells, maintaining bonding requirements to drill or operate wells, and regulating the location of wells, the method of drilling and casing wells, the surface use and restoration of properties on which wells are drilled, and the plugging and abandoning of wells. Our operations are also subject to various conservation laws and regulations. These include the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or proration units, the density of wells that may be drilled in a given field and the unitization or pooling of oil and natural gas properties. Some states allow the forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and natural gas wells, generally prohibiting the venting or flaring of natural gas and imposing certain requirements regarding the ratability of production. The effect of these regulations is
14
Table of Contents
to limit the amounts of oil and natural gas we can produce from our wells, and to limit the number of wells or the locations where we can drill. Because these statutes, rules and regulations undergo constant review and often are amended, expanded and reinterpreted, we are unable to predict the future cost or impact of regulatory compliance. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability. We do not believe, however, we are affected differently by these regulations than others in the industry.
Natural Gas Marketing, Gathering and Transportation
Federal legislation and regulatory controls have historically affected the price of the natural gas we produce and the manner in which our production is transported and marketed. Under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (NGA), the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (NGPA), and the regulations promulgated under those statutes, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates the interstate sale for resale of natural gas and the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, although facilities used in the production or gathering of natural gas in interstate commerce are generally exempted from FERC jurisdiction. Effective beginning in January 1993, the Natural Gas Wellhead Decontrol Act deregulated natural gas prices for all “first sales” of natural gas, which definition covers all sales of our own production. In addition, as part of the broad industry restructuring initiatives described below, the FERC granted to all producers such as us a “blanket certificate of public convenience and necessity” authorizing the sale of natural gas for resale without further FERC approvals. As a result of this policy, all of our produced natural gas is sold at market prices, subject to the terms of any private contracts that may be in effect. In addition, under the provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (2005 Act), the NGA was amended to prohibit any forms of market manipulation in connection with the purchase or sale of natural gas. Pursuant to the 2005 Act, the FERC established regulations intended to increase natural gas pricing transparency by, among other things, requiring market participants to report their gas sales transactions annually to the FERC. The 2005 Act also significantly increased the penalties for violations of the NGA and NGPA and the FERC’s regulations thereunder up to $1.0 million per day per violation. This maximum penalty authority established by statute has been and will continue to be adjusted periodically for inflation. The current maximum penalty is over $1.3 million per day per violation. In 2010, the FERC issued Penalty Guidelines for the determination of civil penalties and procedure under its enforcement program.
Our production and gathering facilities are not subject to FERC jurisdiction; however, our natural gas sales prices nevertheless continue to be affected by intrastate and interstate gas transportation regulation because the cost of transporting the natural gas once sold to the consuming market is a factor in the prices we receive. Beginning with Order No. 436 in 1985 and continuing through Order No. 636 in 1992 and Order No. 637 in 2000, the FERC has adopted a series of rule makings that have significantly altered the transportation and marketing of natural gas. These changes were intended by the FERC to foster competition by, among other things, requiring interstate pipeline companies to separate their wholesale gas marketing business from their gas transportation business, and by increasing the transparency of pricing for pipeline services. The FERC has also established regulations governing the relationship of pipelines with their marketing affiliates, which essentially require that designated employees function independently of each other, and that certain information not be shared. The FERC has also implemented standards relating to the use of electronic data exchange by the pipelines to make transportation information available on a timely basis and to enable transactions to occur on a purely electronic basis.
In light of these statutory and regulatory changes, most pipelines have divested their natural gas sales functions to marketing affiliates, which operate separately from the transporter and in direct competition with all other merchants. Most pipelines have also implemented the large‑scale divestiture of their natural gas gathering facilities to affiliated or non-affiliated companies. Interstate pipelines are required to provide unbundled, open and nondiscriminatory transportation and transportation‑related services to producers, gas marketing companies, local distribution companies, industrial end users and other customers seeking such services. As a result of the FERC requiring natural gas pipeline companies to separate marketing and transportation services, sellers and buyers of natural gas have gained direct access to pipeline transportation services, and are better able to conduct business with a larger number of counterparties. We believe these changes generally have improved our access to markets while, at the same time, substantially increasing competition in the natural gas marketplace. We cannot predict what new or different regulations the FERC and other regulatory agencies may adopt, or what effect subsequent regulations may have on our activities. Similarly, we cannot predict what proposals, if any, that affect the oil and natural gas industry might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, such proposals might have on us. Further, we cannot predict whether the recent trend toward federal deregulation of the natural gas industry will continue or what effect future policies will have on our sale of gas.
Federal Regulation of Swap Transactions
We use derivative financial instruments such as collar, swap and basis swap agreements to attempt to more effectively manage price risk due to the impact of changes in commodity prices on our operating results and cash flows. Following enactment of the Dodd‑Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd‑Frank Act) in July 2010, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) has promulgated regulations to implement statutory requirements for swap
15
Table of Contents
transactions, including certain options. The CFTC regulations are intended to implement a regulated market in which most swaps are executed on registered exchanges or swap execution facilities and cleared through central counterparties. In addition, all swap market participants are subject to new reporting and recordkeeping requirements related to their swap transactions. We believe that our use of swaps to hedge against commodity exposure qualifies us as an end‑user, exempting us from the requirement to centrally clear our swaps. Nevertheless, changes to the swap market as a result of Dodd‑Frank implementation could significantly increase the cost of entering into new swaps or maintaining existing swaps, materially alter the terms of new or existing swap transactions and/or reduce the availability of new or existing swaps. If we reduce our use of swaps as a result of the Dodd‑Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable.
Federal Regulation of Petroleum
Sales of crude oil and NGLs are not regulated and are made at market prices. However, the price received from the sale of these products is affected by the cost of transporting the products to market. Much of that transportation is through interstate common carrier pipelines, which are regulated by the FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act (ICA). FERC requires that pipelines regulated under the ICA file tariffs setting forth the rates and terms and conditions of service and that such service not be unduly discriminatory or preferential.
Effective January 1, 1995, the FERC implemented regulations generally grandfathering all previously approved interstate transportation rates and establishing an indexing system for those rates by which adjustments are made annually based on the rate of inflation, subject to certain conditions and limitations. These regulations may increase or decrease the cost of transporting crude oil and NGLs by interstate pipeline, although the annual adjustments may result in decreased rates in a given year. Every five years, the FERC must examine the relationship between the annual change in the applicable index and the actual cost changes experienced in the oil pipeline industry. In December 2015, to implement this required five‑year redetermination, the FERC established an upward adjustment in the index to track oil pipeline cost changes and determined that the Producer Price Index for Finished Goods plus 1.23 percent should be the oil pricing index for the five‑year period beginning July 1, 2016. The FERC recently concluded its five-year index review to establish the new adder for crude oil and liquids pipeline rates subject to indexing. The FERC issued an order on December 17, 2020 establishing an index level of Producer Price Index for Finished Goods plus 0.78 percent for the five-year period commencing July 1, 2021. The result of indexing is a “ceiling rate” for each rate, which is the maximum at which the pipeline may set its interstate transportation rates. A pipeline may also file cost‑of‑service based rates if rate indexing will be insufficient to allow the pipeline to recover its costs. Rates are subject to challenge by protest when they are filed or changed. For indexed rates, complaints alleging that the rates are unjust and unreasonable may only be pursued if the complainant can show that a substantial change has occurred since the enactment of Energy Policy Act of 1992 in either the economic circumstances of the pipeline or in the nature of the services provided that were a basis for the rate. There is no such limitation on complaints alleging that the pipeline’s rates or terms and conditions of service are unduly discriminatory or preferential. We are unable to predict with certainty the effect upon us of these periodic reviews by the FERC of the pipeline index, or any potential future challenges to pipelines' rates.
Environmental and Safety Regulations
General. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of materials into the environment and to safety matters. Permits are required for the operation of our various facilities. These permits can be revoked, modified or renewed by issuing authorities. Governmental authorities enforce compliance with their regulations through fines, injunctions or both. Government regulations can increase the cost of planning, designing, installing and operating, and can affect the timing of installing and operating, oil and natural gas facilities. Although we believe that compliance with environmental regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us, risks of substantial costs and liabilities related to environmental compliance issues are part of oil and natural gas production operations. No assurance can be given that significant costs and liabilities will not be incurred. Also, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations, and claims for damages to property or persons resulting from oil and natural gas production could result in substantial costs and liabilities to us.
U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations include those controlling the discharge of materials into the environment, requiring removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment, those regulating the emission of air contaminants and laws and regulations otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, or to occupational health and safety.
Solid and Hazardous Waste. We currently own or lease, and have in the past owned or leased, numerous properties that were used for the production of oil and natural gas for many years. Although operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time may have been utilized, it is possible that hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties currently owned or leased by us. State and federal laws applicable to oil and
16
Table of Contents
gas wastes and properties have become stricter over time. Under these increasingly stringent requirements, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes (including wastes disposed or released by prior owners and operators) or clean up property contamination (including groundwater contamination by prior owners or operators) or to perform plugging operations to prevent future contamination.
We generate some hazardous wastes that are subject to the Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and comparable state statutes, as well as wastes that are exempt from such regulation. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has limited the disposal options for certain hazardous wastes. It is possible that certain wastes currently exempt from treatment as hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes under RCRA or other applicable statutes. For example, in December 2016, the EPA and environmental groups entered into a consent decree to address the EPA’s alleged failure to timely assess the need to regulate exploration and production related oil and gas wastes exempt from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA under Subtitle D applicable to non-hazardous solid waste. The consent decree required the EPA to propose a rulemaking by March 2019 for revision of certain Subtitle D criteria regulations pertaining to oil and gas wastes or to sign a determination that revision of the regulations is not necessary. In April 2019, the EPA issued its determination that based on its review, including consideration of state regulatory programs, it was not necessary at the time to revise Subtitle D regulations to address the management of oil and gas wastes. In the future, we could be subject to more rigorous and costly disposal requirements than we encounter today.
Superfund. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as the “Superfund” law, and comparable state laws and regulations impose liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain persons with respect to the release of hazardous substances into the environment. These persons include the current and past owners and operators of a site where the release occurred and any party that treated or disposed of or arranged for the treatment or disposal of hazardous substances found at a site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several strict liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. CERCLA also authorizes the EPA, and in some cases, private parties, to undertake actions to clean up such hazardous substances, or to recover the costs of such actions from the responsible parties. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. In the course of business, we have used materials and generated wastes and will continue to use materials and generate wastes that may fall within CERCLA’s definition of hazardous substances. We may also be an owner or operator of sites on which hazardous substances have been released. As a result, we may be responsible under CERCLA for all or part of the costs to clean up sites where such substances have been released.
Oil Pollution Act. The Federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA) and resulting regulations impose a variety of obligations on responsible parties related to the prevention of oil spills and liability for damages resulting from such spills in waters of the United States. The term “waters of the United States” has been broadly defined to include inland water bodies, including wetlands and intermittent streams. The OPA assigns joint and several strict liability to each responsible party for oil removal costs and a variety of public and private damages. The OPA also imposes ongoing requirements on operators, including the preparation of oil spill response plans and proof of financial responsibility to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill. We believe that we substantially comply with the Oil Pollution Act and related federal regulations.
Endangered Species Act. The Endangered Species Act (ESA) restricts activities that may affect endangered or threatened species or their habitats. While some of our operations may be located in areas that are designated as habitats for endangered or threatened species, we believe that we are in substantial compliance with the ESA, nor are we aware of any proposed listings that will affect our operations. However, the designation of previously unidentified endangered or threatened species could cause us to incur additional costs or become subject to operating restrictions or bans in the affected areas.
Clean Water Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (Clean Water Act) and implementing regulations, which are primarily executed through a system of permits, also govern the discharge of certain contaminants into waters of the United States. Sanctions for failure to comply strictly with the Clean Water Act are generally resolved by payment of fines and correction of any identified deficiencies. However, regulatory agencies could require us to cease construction or operation of certain facilities or to cease hauling wastewaters to facilities owned by others that are the source of water discharges. We believe that we substantially comply with the Clean Water Act and related federal and state regulations.
Clean Air Act. Our operations are subject to the Federal Clean Air Act and comparable local and state laws and regulations to control emissions from sources of air pollution. Federal and state laws require new and modified sources of air pollutants to obtain permits prior to commencing construction. Major sources of air pollutants are subject to more stringent, federally imposed requirements including additional permits. Federal and state laws designed to control toxic air pollutants and greenhouse gases might require installation of additional controls. Payment of fines and correction of any identified deficiencies
17
Table of Contents
generally resolve penalties for failure to comply strictly with air regulations or permits. Regulatory agencies could also require us to cease construction or operation of certain facilities or to install additional controls on certain facilities that are air emission sources. We believe that we substantially comply with applicable emission standards under local, state, and federal laws and regulations.
Some of our producing wells and associated facilities are subject to restrictive air emission limitations and permitting requirements. Two examples are the EPA’s source aggregation rule and the EPA’s New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP). In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule concerning aggregation of sources that affects source determinations for air permitting in the oil and gas industry, and, as a result, aggregating our oil and gas facilities for permitting could result in more complex, costly, and time-consuming air permitting. Particularly with respect to obtaining pre-construction permits, the final aggregation rule could add costs and cause delays in operations.
In 2012, the EPA published final NSPS and NESHAP that amended the existing NSPS and NESHAP for the oil and natural gas sector. In June 2016, the EPA published a final rule that updated and expanded the NSPS by setting additional emissions limits for volatile organic compounds and regulating methane emissions for new and modified sources in the oil and gas industry. In June 2017, the EPA proposed a two year stay of certain requirements contained in the June 2016 rule and, in November 2017, issued a notice of data availability in support of the stay proposal and provided a 30-day comment period on the information provided. In March 2018, the EPA published a final rule that amended two narrow provisions of the NSPS, removing the requirement for completion of delayed repair during emergency or unscheduled vent blowdowns. In September 2020, the EPA published a final rule amending the 2012 and 2016 NSPS for the oil and natural gas sector that removed transmission and storage sources from the oil and natural gas industry source category and rescinded the methane requirements applicable to the production and processing sources. The same day as the publication of the September 2020 rule, 20 states and three municipalities filed a petition for review of the EPA’s final rule in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. In October 2020, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals denied emergency motions for a stay of the oil and natural gas sector NSPS amendments from taking effect pending review. The original petitioners have been joined by a number of environmental groups in challenging the September 2020 rule. For additional information, please read “Risk Factors—Legal, Regulatory and Governmental Risks— Federal and state legislation, judicial actions and regulatory initiatives related to oil and gas development and the use of hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows” in Item 1A.
In October 2015, the EPA adopted a lower national ambient air quality standard for ozone. The revised standard resulted in additional areas being designated as ozone non-attainment, which could lead to requirements for additional emissions control equipment and the imposition of more stringent permit requirements on facilities in those areas. The EPA completed its final area designations under the new ozone standard in July 2018. If we are unable to comply with air pollution regulations or to obtain permits for emissions associated with our operations, we could be required to forego construction, modification or certain operations. These regulations may also increase compliance costs for some facilities we own or operate, and result in administrative, civil and/or criminal penalties for noncompliance. Obtaining permits may delay the development of our oil and natural gas projects, including the construction and operation of facilities.
Safe Drinking Water Act. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and comparable local and state provisions restrict the disposal, treatment or release of water produced or used during oil and gas development. Subsurface emplacement of fluids (including disposal wells or enhanced oil recovery) is governed by federal or state regulatory authorities that, in some cases, includes the state oil and gas regulatory authority or the state’s environmental authority. These regulations may increase the costs of compliance for some facilities.
Hydraulic Fracturing. Many of our exploration and production operations depend on the use of hydraulic fracturing to enhance production from oil and natural gas wells. This technology involves the injection of fluids, usually consisting mostly of water but typically including small amounts of several chemical additives, as well as sand into a well under high pressure in order to create fractures in the formation that allow oil or natural gas to flow more freely to the wellbore. Most of our wells would not be economical without the use of hydraulic fracturing to stimulate production from the well. Due to concerns raised relating to potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal, state and local levels have been initiated to render permitting and compliance requirements more stringent for hydraulic fracturing or prohibit the activity altogether. Increased regulation and attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and natural gas production activities using hydraulic fracturing techniques which could have an adverse effect on oil and natural gas production activities, including operational delays or increased operating costs in the production of oil and natural gas from the developing shale plays, or could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing. The adoption of federal, state or local laws or the implementation of regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing could potentially cause a decrease in the completion of new oil and natural gas wells and increased compliance costs, which could increase costs of our operations and cause considerable delays in acquiring regulatory approvals to drill and complete wells. In
18
Table of Contents
addition, if existing laws and regulations with regard to hydraulic fracturing are revised or reinterpreted or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations through judicial or administrative actions, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. For additional information about hydraulic fracturing and related environmental matters, please read “Risk Factors—Legal, Regulatory and Governmental Risks—Federal and state legislation, judicial actions and regulatory initiatives related to oil and gas development and the use of hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and operating restrictions or delays and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows” in Item 1A.
Greenhouse Gas. In response to studies suggesting that emissions of carbon dioxide and certain other gases may be contributing to global climate change, the United States Congress has considered, but not enacted, legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from sources within the United States between 2012 and 2050. In addition, many states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. The EPA has also begun to regulate carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions under existing provisions of the Clean Air Act. This includes potential regulation of methane emissions from new and modified sources in the oil and gas sector. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant portion of our costs related to complying with current and future regulations relating to climate change and GHGs, it could materially affect our operations and financial condition. To the extent financial markets view climate change and GHG emissions as a financial risk, this could negatively impact our cost of, and access to, capital. Future legislation or regulations adopted to address climate change could also make our products more or less desirable than competing sources of energy. Please read “Risk Factors—Legal, Regulatory and Governmental Risks—Climate change and climate change legislative and regulatory initiatives could result in increased operating costs and decreased demand for the oil and natural gas that we produce” in Item 1A.
OSHA and Other Laws and Regulations. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA), and comparable state laws. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right‑to‑know regulations under the Title III of CERCLA and similar state laws require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. Also, pursuant to OSHA, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established a variety of standards related to workplace exposure to hazardous substances and employee health and safety.
Human Capital Resources
We believe that our ability to attract, retain and develop the highest quality personnel is an important component of our success. We believe our employee levels are appropriate and that we have the human capital to operate our business and carry out our strategy as determined by management and our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2020, we had 503 employees, 274 of whom were associated with our upstream operations, of which 92 were located at our corporate headquarters in Houston, Texas, 88 were located at our regional office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and 94 were located in our field operations in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. Of these 274 upstream employees, 214 were salaried and 60 were hourly. In addition to our upstream employees, we had 229 employees that are employed by our wholly owned subsidiary, GasSearch Drilling Services Corporation (GDS), which is a service company engaged in water hauling and site preparation exclusively for our field operations. Of these 229 GDS employees, 13 were salaried and 216 were hourly. We believe that our relations with our employees are favorable. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement.
In managing our human capital resources, we seek to:
•Attract and retain a highly qualified and motivated workforce, maintaining a conservative headcount to minimize workforce fluctuations, promote job security and provide employees opportunities for learning and development;
•Offer a competitive compensation and benefits package; and
•Promote a safe and healthy workplace.
We believe these practices, further described below, are the key drivers in our very low voluntary turnover rates, which averaged less than five percent over the five-year period ended December 31, 2020.
Recruiting Hiring and Advancement. Due to the cyclical nature of our business and the fluctuations in activity that can occur, we take a conservative approach to managing our headcount, carefully evaluating whether a new hire is necessary for an open position or whether we can fill the position by expanding the role of a current employee or several employees. In this way, we provide employees with opportunities to learn new roles and develop their skills horizontally and vertically and minimize layoffs and fluctuations when downturns occur. When a position cannot be filled by expanding the role of a current employee or several employees, we first consider opportunities to promote current employees before going to outside sources for a new
19
Table of Contents
hire, when possible. We believe this practice helps to reduce voluntary turnover among our workforce by providing employees with variety and new challenges throughout their career.
We identify qualified candidates by promoting the position internally, engaging in recruiting through our website and online platforms, conducting campus outreach, filling internships and attending job fairs. In our recruiting and hiring efforts, we seek to foster a culture of mutual respect and strictly comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws governing nondiscrimination in employment. We treat all applicants with the same high level of respect regardless of their gender, ethnicity, religion, national origin, age, marital status, political affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability or protected veteran status. This philosophy extends to all employees throughout the lifecycle of employment, including recruiting, hiring, placement, promotion, evaluation, leaves of absence, compensation and training.
Compensation and Benefits. Our focus on providing competitive total compensation and benefits to our employees is a core value of ours and a key driver of our retention program. We design our compensation programs to provide compensation that is competitive with our industry peers and rewards superior performance and, for managers and executives, aligns compensation with our performance and incentivizes the achievement of superior operating results. We do this through a total rewards program that provides:
•Base wages that are competitive for the position and considered for increases annually based on the job market, industry outlook, business performance and merit, which is communicated through our annual performance review process
•Incentives that reward individual and company performance, such as discretionary bonuses, field and safety performance bonuses, and short-term and long-term incentive programs
•Retirement benefits, including dollar-for-dollar matching contributions to a tax-qualified defined contribution savings plan for all employees, and a separate retirement contribution of 10 percent of salary and bonus for parent-company employees
•Comprehensive health and welfare benefits including medical insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental insurance, vision insurance, life insurance, accident insurance, short and long-term disability benefits, employee assistance program and health savings accounts
•Tuition reimbursement for eligible employees, scholarship program and matching charitable contributions program
•Time off, sick time and holiday time
We believe that our compensation and benefits package is a strong retention tool and promotes personal health and financial security within our workforce.
Health and Safety. The health and safety of our employees is one of our core values for sustainable operations. This value is reflected in our strong safety culture that emphasizes personal responsibility and safety leadership, both for our employees and our contractors that are on our worksites. Our comprehensive environmental, health and safety (EHS) management system establishes a corporate governance framework for EHS compliance and performance and covers all elements of our operating lifecycle. These practices and the commitment of our management and our employees to our culture of safety have resulted in only two OSHA recordable incidents in 1,528,252 work hours over the three-year period from 2018 through 2020, for an average Total Recordable Incident Rate of 0.26 over that three-year period.
Our EHS management system provided the framework to implement immediate and comprehensive safety protocols in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that struck suddenly in the first quarter of 2020. All of our employees are designated “critical infrastructure workers” under the Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency guidelines, and as a result, our field operations continued throughout 2020. The actions taken to prevent the spread of infection on our worksites and promote the health and safety of our workforce include:
•Closing our offices and implementing “work from home” for all non-field based employees
•Implementing and providing training on a COVID-19 Safety Policy containing personal safety protocols, such as face coverings, social distancing requirements and personal hygiene measures
•Providing additional personal protective equipment
•Implementing rigorous COVID-19 self-assessment, contact tracing and quarantining protocols
•Increasing cleaning protocols at all locations
20
Table of Contents
•Prohibiting all foreign and domestic business travel
•Providing additional paid leave to employees with actual or presumed COVID-19 cases
Due to these measures, all of our operations continued safely and uninterrupted during the pandemic in 2020. We also implemented appreciation award programs for many of our employees who continued to work onsite during the pandemic.
Website Access to Company Reports
We make available free of charge through our website, www.cabotog.com, our annual reports on Form 10‑K, quarterly reports on Form 10‑Q, current reports on Form 8‑K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information on our website is not a part of this report. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information filed by us.
Corporate Governance Matters
Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Corporate Bylaws, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee Charter, Code of Business Conduct and Environment, Health & Safety Committee Charter are available on our website at www.cabotog.com, under the “Governance” section of “About Cabot.” Requests can also be made in writing to Investor Relations at our corporate headquarters at Three Memorial City Plaza, 840 Gessner Road, Suite 1400, Houston, Texas 77024.
21
