Overview
We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development and manufacturing solutions for drugs; protein, cell, and gene therapy biologics; and consumer health products. Our oral, injectable, cell and gene therapy, and respiratory delivery technologies address the full diversity of the pharmaceutical industry, including small molecules; protein, cell, and gene therapy biologics; and consumer health products. Through our extensive capabilities and deep expertise in product development, we can help our customers take products to market faster, including nearly half of new drug products approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) in the last decade. Our advanced delivery technology platforms, which include those in our Softgel and Oral Technologies, Biologics, and Oral and Specialty Delivery segments, our proven formulation, manufacturing, and regulatory expertise, and our broad and deep intellectual property enable our customers to develop more products and better treatments for patients and consumers. Across both development and delivery, our commitment to reliably supply our customers’ and their patients’ needs is the foundation for the value we provide; annually, we produce more than 74 billion doses for nearly 7,000 customer products, or approximately 1 in every 20 doses of such products taken each year by patients and consumers around the world. We believe that, through our investments in growth-enabling capacity and capabilities, our ongoing focus on operational and quality excellence, the sales of existing and introduction of new customer products, our innovation activities and patents, and our entry into new markets, we will continue to benefit from attractive and differentiated margins and realize the growth potential from these areas.
We continue to invest in our sales and marketing activities, leading to growth in the number of active development programs for our customers. This has further enhanced our extensive, long-duration relationships and long-term contracts with a broad and diverse range of industry-leading customers. In fiscal 2020, we conducted business with 86 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 24 of the top 25 generics marketers, 23 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 22 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally. Selected key customers include Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, Roche, and Teva. We have many long-standing relationships with our customers, particularly in advanced delivery technologies, where we tend to follow a prescription molecule through its lifecycle, from the development and launch of the original brand prescription, to potential generics or an over-the-counter switch. A prescription pharmaceutical product relationship with an innovator will often last many years, in several cases, two decades or more, extending from pre-clinical development through the end of the product’s life cycle. We serve customers who require innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing, and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs. Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules and other active ingredients to yield final formulations and dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors frequently translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level.
We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, intellectual property, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of business and product solutions that can be customized to fit their individual needs. Today we employ more than 2,400 scientists and technicians and hold nearly 1,300 patents and patent applications in advanced delivery, drug and biologics formulation, and manufacturing. The aim of our offerings is to allow our customers to bring more products to market faster, and to develop and market differentiated new products that improve patient outcomes. We believe our leading market position and diversity of customers, offerings, regulatory categories, products, and geographies reduce our exposure to potential strategic and product shifts within the industry.
We provide a number of proprietary, differentiated technologies, products, and service offerings to our customers across our advanced delivery technologies and development solutions platforms. The core technologies within our advanced delivery technologies platform include softgel capsules, our Zydis orally dissolving tablets, blow-fill-seal unit-dose liquids, adeno-associated virus (“AAV”) vectors, and a range of other oral, injectable, and respiratory delivery technologies. The technologies and service offerings within our development solutions platform span the drug development process, ranging from our OptiForm Solution Suite for enhancement of bioavailability and other characteristics of early-stage molecules, and Gene Product Expression (“GPEx”), GPEx Boost, and SMARTag platforms for development of biologics and antibody-drug conjugates (“ADCs”), to formulation, analytical services, early-stage clinical development, and clinical trials supply, including our unique FlexDirect direct-to-patient and FastChain demand-led clinical supply solutions. Our offerings serve a critical need in the development and manufacturing of difficult-to-formulate products across a number of product types.
We have advanced our technologies and grown our service offerings over more than 85 years through internal development, strategic alliances, in-licensing, and acquisitions. We initially introduced our softgel capsule technology in the 1930s and have continued to expand our range of new, technologically enhanced offerings. Since fiscal 2013, we have launched OptiShell, OptiMelt, Zydis Nano, Zydis Bio, OptiPact, the OptiForm Solution Suite, and our FlexDirect, SupplyFlex, and FastChain demand-led clinical supply solutions, as well as both clinical- and commercial-scale spray-drying formulation and
6

delivery services. Our customers use these solutions to advance their products, including the first commercially marketed product using our OptiShell non-gelatin soft capsule technology. We have also augmented our portfolio through acquisitions. In fiscal 2017, we expanded our early development capabilities through the September 2016 acquisition of Pharmatek Laboratories, Inc. (“Pharmatek”), and we expanded our softgel development and manufacturing network through the February 2017 acquisition of Accucaps Industries Limited (“Accucaps”). In fiscal 2018, we acquired Cook Pharmica LLC (now known as Catalent Indiana, LLC (“Catalent Indiana”)) in order to enhance our biologics capabilities. In fiscal 2019, we acquired Juniper Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“Juniper”), extending to the E.U. our early development capabilities, and Paragon Bioservices, Inc. (now known as Catalent Maryland, Inc. (“Catalent Maryland”)), adding advanced gene therapy development and manufacturing capabilities to our biologics business. In fiscal 2020, we augmented our gene therapy capabilities with the acquisition of certain assets, including two advanced biologics clinical development and manufacturing sites in southern Maryland, from Novavax, Inc. (“Novavax”) in July 2019; in January 2020, we acquired Bristol-Myers Squibb Company’s oral solid, biologics, and sterile product manufacturing and packaging facility in Anagni, Italy (“Anagni”); and, in February 2020, we acquired Masthercell Global Inc. (“MaSTherCell”), which develops and manufactures autologous and allogeneic cell therapies for third parties and provides a variety of related analytical services. In May 2020, we agreed to acquire a clinical packaging facility located in Shiga, Japan from Takeda-Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and completed the acquisition on July 1, 2020. In large part due to our recent acquisitions and their subsequent organic growth, revenue contributions from our biologics business have grown from approximately 10% in fiscal 2014 to 33% in fiscal 2020. We believe our own internal innovation, supplemented by current and future external partnerships and acquisitions, will continue to strengthen and extend our leadership positions in the delivery and development of drugs, biologics, cell and gene therapies, and consumer health products.
The COVID-19 Pandemic
As a global development and manufacturing partner that supplies medicines, clinical trial materials, and consumer health products to millions of patients and consumers, we have been taking decisive action to minimize the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our employees, partners, customers, and their patients. We have been declared an essential business by all the national and local governments where we operate, allowing us to sustain full employment for our teams. Our operating facilities have remained open and have continued to deliver to our customers and their patients. Our ongoing capital investments into expanding our capabilities and capacity to serve our customers have been proceeding across our biologics, oral dose form, and inhaled solutions platforms.
We have been awarded work on more than 50 COVID-19-related compounds from over 40 customers, involving each of our business units, across a wide variety of antivirals, vaccines, diagnostics, and treatments for symptoms and effects of COVID-19, including most of the major vaccine programs.
To address the multiple dimensions of the pandemic, two senior, multi-disciplinary teams reporting directly to our Chief Executive Officer have been continuously monitoring the global situation, executing mitigation activities whenever and wherever required, and planning for a phased and structured return to our facilities as circumstances will permit for those employees who have been remote-working since the pandemic began. To help assure the safety of our employees and partners and protect the supply of our products to patients, we have taken extensive actions, in line with guidelines issued by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO), and local authorities where we operate, to re-emphasize good hygiene practices, severely restrict non-employee access to our sites, reorganize our workflows where permitted to maximize social distancing, limit our employees to only business-critical travel (where permitted by local law), facilitate safer alternatives to travel to and from work, and employ remote-working strategies.
History
We trace our history to the founding of the R.P. Scherer Corporation in 1933, which developed the first rotary die machine for the manufacture of soft gelatin capsules, and assumed our current form in April 2007. We regularly review our portfolio of offerings and operations in the context of our strategic growth plan, and, as a result, we have sold eight businesses and consolidated operations at five facilities, integrating them into the remaining facility network. In fiscal 2020, we sold our facility in Braeside, Australia. We have also actively acquired new businesses and facilities. In July 2014, we completed the initial public offering of our common stock, par value $0.01 (the “Common Stock”), which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) under the symbol “CTLT.”
We are a holding company that indirectly owns Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. (“Operating Company”), which owns, directly or indirectly, all of our operating subsidiaries.
7

Our Competitive Strengths
Leading Provider of Advanced Delivery Technologies and Development and Manufacturing Solutions
We are the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development and manufacturing solutions for drugs; protein, cell, and gene therapy biologics; and consumer health products. In the last decade, we have earned revenue with respect to nearly half of the drugs based on new molecular entities approved by the FDA, and over the past three years with respect to more than 80% of the top 200 largest-selling compounds globally. With more than 2,400 scientists and technicians worldwide and nearly 1,300 patents and patent applications, our expertise is in providing differentiated technologies and solutions that help our customers bring more products and better treatments to market faster. For example, in the high-value area of new chemical entities (“NCEs”), approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.
Diversified Operating Platform
We are diversified by virtue of our geographic scope, our large customer base, the extensive range of products we produce, our broad service offerings, and our ability to provide solutions at nearly every stage of a product’s lifecycle. In fiscal 2020, we produced nearly 7,000 distinct items across multiple categories; our fiscal 2020 regulatory-based classification of revenues demonstrates this: branded drugs (38%), generic prescription drugs (5%), protein, cell and gene therapy biologics (37%), over-the-counter drugs (11%), and consumer health, veterinary products, medical devices, and diagnostics (9% combined). In fiscal 2020, our top 20 products represented approximately 18% of our total net revenue, with no single customer accounting for greater than 10% of revenue and with no individual product greater than 3%. We serve more than 1,000 customers in approximately 85 countries, with 41% of our fiscal 2020 net revenue coming from outside the United States. This diversity, combined with long product lifecycles and close customer relationships, has contributed to the stability of our business. It has also allowed us to reduce our exposure to potential strategic, customer, and product shifts as well as to payer-driven pricing pressures experienced by our drug and biologic customers.
Longstanding, Extensive Relationships with a Diverse Customer Base
We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal 2020, we did business with 86 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 24 of the top 25 generics marketers, 23 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 22 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally, as well as with more than 1,000 other customers, including emerging and specialty companies, which are often more reliant on outside partners as a result of their more virtual business models. Regardless of size, our customers seek innovative product development, superior quality, advanced manufacturing, and skilled technical services to support their development and marketed product needs.
We believe our customers value us because our depth of development solutions and advanced delivery technologies, consistent and reliable supply, geographic reach, and substantial expertise enable us to create a broad range of tailored solutions, many of which are unavailable from other individual providers.
Deep, Broad, and Growing Advanced Technology Foundation
Our breadth of proprietary and patented technologies and long track record of innovation substantially differentiate us from other industry participants. Our leading softgel platforms, including Liqui-Gels, OptiShell, and Vegicaps capsules, and our modified release technologies, including the Zydis family and our OptiPact and OptiMelt technologies, provide formulation expertise to solve complex delivery challenges for our customers. We offer advanced technologies for delivery of small molecules and biologics via respiratory, ophthalmic, and injectable routes, including the blow-fill-seal unit dose technology and prefilled syringes. We also provide advanced biologics formulation options, including GPEx and GPEx Boost cell lines, SMARTag ADC technology, and AAV vectors for cell and gene therapies. We have a leadership position within respiratory delivery, including metered dose and dry powder inhalers and nebulized and intra-nasal forms. We have reinforced our leadership position in advanced delivery technologies over the last five years, as we have launched more than a dozen new technology platforms and applications, including the fiscal 2016 launch of our OptiForm Solution Suite, a dose form-agnostic bioavailability enhancement program for early-stage molecules, the launch of development-, clinical-, and commercial-scale spray drying services, and the recent acquisitions of Catalent Indiana, Catalent Maryland, and MaSTherCell, which expanded our biologics business and extended us into cell and gene therapy. Our culture of creativity and innovation is grounded in our advanced delivery technologies, our scientists and engineers, and our patents and proprietary manufacturing processes throughout our global network. Our global product development team drives a focused application of resources to our highest priority opportunities for both new customer product introductions and platform technology development. As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately 1,200 product development programs in active development across our businesses.
8

Long-Duration Relationships Provide Sustainability
Our broad and diverse range of technologies closely integrates with our customers’ molecules to yield final formulations and dose forms, and this generally results in the inclusion of Catalent in our customers’ prescription product regulatory filings. Both of these factors translate to long-duration supply relationships at an individual product level, to which we apply our expertise in contracting to produce long-duration commercial supply agreements. These agreements typically have initial terms of three to seven years with regular renewals of one to three years (see “—Contractual Arrangements” for more detail). Approximately two-thirds of our fiscal 2020 advanced delivery technology platform net revenues (comprised of our Softgel and Oral Technologies, Biologics, and Oral and Specialty Delivery reporting segments) were covered by such long-term contractual arrangements. We believe this base provides us with a sustainable competitive advantage.
Significant Recent Growth Investments
We have made over time, and expect to continue to make, significant investments to strengthen our manufacturing network, which is capable of serving customers and patients worldwide, and today employ 7.1 million square feet of manufacturing, laboratory, and related space across four continents. We have deployed approximately $1.1 billion in the last five fiscal years in gross capital expenditures, not including more than $3.0 billion spent in acquiring new facilities and businesses. Growth-related investments in facilities, capacity, and capabilities across our businesses have positioned us for future growth in areas aligned with anticipated future demand. Through our focus on operational, quality, and regulatory excellence, we drive for ongoing and continuous improvements in safety, productivity, and reliable supply to customer expectations, which we believe further differentiate us. Our manufacturing network and capabilities allow us the flexibility to reliably supply the changing needs of our customers while consistently meeting their quality, delivery, and regulatory compliance expectations.
High Standards of Regulatory Compliance and Operational and Quality Excellence
We operate our plants in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) or other applicable requirements, following our own high standards that are consistent with those of many of our large global pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. We have more than 1,900 employees around the globe focused on quality and regulatory compliance. All of our facilities are registered where required with the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the European Medicines Agency (the “EMA”). In some cases, facilities are registered with multiple regulatory agencies. In fiscal 2020, we were subject to 50 regulatory audits, and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed approximately 290 regulatory audits. We also undergo more than 500 customer and internal audits annually. We believe our quality and regulatory track record to be a favorable competitive differentiator.
Strong and Experienced Management Team
Our executive leadership team collectively has nearly 600 years of combined and diverse experience within the pharmaceutical and healthcare industries. With an average of more than 27 years of functional experience, this team possesses deep knowledge and a wide network of industry relationships.
Our Strategy
We are pursuing the following key growth initiatives:
“Follow the Molecule”® Providing Solutions to our Customers across all Phases of the Product Lifecycle
We intend to use our advanced delivery technologies and development and manufacturing solutions across the entire lifecycle of our customers’ products to drive future growth. Our development solutions span the drug development process, starting with our platforms for early pre-clinical development of small molecules, protein, cell, and gene therapy biologics; ADCs; formulation and analytical services; development and manufacturing of clinical trial supplies; to regulatory consulting. Once a molecule is ready for clinical trials and subsequent commercialization, we provide our customers with a range of advanced delivery technologies and expert manufacturing solutions that allow them to deliver their molecules to the end-users in appropriate dosage forms, and to produce biologics drug substances needed for protein, cell, and gene therapy biologics. The relationship between a molecule and our advanced delivery technologies typically starts with developing and manufacturing the innovator product, then extends throughout the molecule’s commercial life, including with additional customers, through potential generic launches or over-the-counter conversion. For prescription products, we are typically the sole or primary outsourced provider and, as a result, are frequently reflected in customers’ new drug applications. Our revenues from our advanced delivery technologies are primarily driven by volumes, and, as a result, the loss of an innovator drug’s market exclusivity may be mitigated if we supply customers offering generic or biosimilar equivalents.
9

An example of this can be found in a leading over-the-counter anti-allergy brand, which today uses both our Zydis orally dissolving tablets and our Liqui-Gels softgel technology. We originally began development of the prescription format of this product for our multinational pharmaceutical company partner in 1992 to address specific patient sub-segment needs. After four years of development, we then commercially supplied the prescription product in our Zydis orally dissolving tablets for six years, and we have continued to provide the Zydis form since the switch to over-the-counter status in the United States and other markets in the early 2000s. Subsequently, we proactively brought a softgel product concept for the brand to the customer, which the customer elected to develop and launch as well. By following this molecule, we have built a strong, 28-year-long relationship across multiple formats and markets.
Customer Product Pipeline — Continuing to Grow Through New Projects and Product Launches
We intend to grow by supplementing our existing diverse base of commercialized customer products with new development programs. As of June 30, 2020, our product development teams were working on approximately 1,200 new customer programs. Our base of active development programs has expanded in recent years from growing market demand, as well as from our expanded capabilities and technologies through both internal investment and acquisitions. Although there are many complex factors that affect the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical; protein, cell and gene therapy biologics; and consumer health products, we expect that a portion of these programs will reach full development and market approval in the future and thereby add to our long-duration commercial revenues under long-term contracts and grow our existing product base. In fiscal 2020, we introduced 163 new products for our customers.
Catalent continues to be the global leader in providing analytical, manufacturing, and controls-based product development services to the global pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health industries, driven by thousands of projects annually. In fiscal 2020, we recognized $1,016.6 million of revenue related to the development of products on behalf of customers, included in our Softgel and Oral Technologies, Biologics, and Oral and Specialty Delivery reporting segments, up 56% from the prior year. In addition, substantially all of the revenue associated with the Clinical Supply Services segment relates to our support of customer products in development.
Capabilities & Capacity — Expanding in Biologics and Other Attractive Markets
Recognizing the strategic importance of biologics, we began to build a differentiated biologics cell-line and formulation development platform in 2002. Since then, we have invested over $3.0 billion in our biologics business, including capital investments, the fiscal 2020 acquisition of MaSTherCell for an aggregate nominal purchase price of $323.3 million, the fiscal 2019 acquisitions of our gene therapy assets, including Catalent Maryland, for an aggregate nominal purchase price of $1.2 billion, and the fiscal 2018 acquisition of Catalent Indiana for an aggregate nominal purchase price of $950.0 million. Today, we are a recognized leader in biologics, including AAV vectors for gene therapies; development for cell therapies; advanced cell-line development; formulation, and fill-finish into pre-filled syringes, vials, and cartridges; specialized manufacturing of biologic drug substance; and bioanalytical analysis. We have partnered with customers from around the world to develop advanced cell expression for nearly 700 cell lines, many using our advanced GPEx and GPEx Boost technologies, and have actively collaborated on developing and scaling up more than 70 cell and gene therapies. We have also invested in a second-generation ADC technology, SMARTag, and we see continued progress in our customers’ SMARTag product-development activities.
In addition to our expansion in biologics, we have invested additional capital in several other existing facilities in order to expand in attractive markets, including a significant expansion of our oral solid controlled release production capacity in Winchester, Kentucky, the scaling-up of commercial manufacturing capacity for metered-dose inhalers, and our commencement of a $34.0 million capital investment to commercialize our next-generation orally dissolving tablet (ODT) technology, Zydis Ultra. We have also added key new capabilities in early development via our fiscal 2019 acquisition of Juniper and our fiscal 2017 acquisition of Pharmatek. We expanded our capacity for oral and injectable products via our fiscal 2020 Anagni acquisition, and for North American consumer health softgels via our fiscal 2017 Accucaps acquisition.
Advanced Delivery Technologies — Capitalize on Our Substantial Platforms
We have broad and diverse technology platforms that are supported by extensive know-how and nearly 1,300 patents and patent applications in approximately 139 families across advanced delivery technologies, drug and biologics formulation, and manufacturing. For example, we have significant softgel fill and formulation know-how, databases of formulated products, and substantial softgel regulatory approval expertise, and, as a result, approximately 90% of NCE softgel approvals by the FDA over the last 25 years have been developed and supplied by us.
In addition to resolving delivery challenges for our customers’ products, for more than two decades we have applied our technology platforms and development expertise to proactively develop proof-of-concept products, whether improved versions of existing drugs, new generic formulations, or innovative consumer health products. In the consumer health area, we file
10

product dossiers with regulators in relevant jurisdictions for self-created products, which help contribute sustainable growth to our consumer health business. We expect to continue to seek proactive development opportunities and other non-traditional relationships to increase demand for and value realized from our technology platforms. These activities have provided us with opportunities to capture an increased share of end-market value through out-licensing, profit-sharing, and other arrangements.
Operational Leverage — Deploy Existing Infrastructure and Operational Discipline to Drive Profitable Growth
Through our existing infrastructure, including our global network of operating locations and programs, we promote operational discipline and drive margin expansion. With our Lean Manufacturing and Lean Six Sigma programs, a global procurement function, and conversion cost productivity metrics in place, we have created a culture of functional excellence and cost accountability. We intend to continue to apply this discipline to leverage further our operational network for profitable growth. Since fiscal 2009, we have expanded gross margin by over 400 basis points and Adjusted EBITDA margin by over 400 basis points. Note that “Adjusted EBITDA” is a financial metric that is not prepared in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), and that further explanations of this measure and comparisons to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures are set forth below at “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Metrics.”
Strategic Acquisitions and Licensing — Build on our Existing Platform
We operate in highly fragmented markets in both our commercial supply and development solutions businesses. Within the market for commercial supply, the ten top players represent approximately 39% of the total market share by revenue. Within the market for development solutions, the five top players represent approximately 10% of the total market share by revenue. Our broad platform, global infrastructure, and diversified customer base provide us with a strong foundation from which to consolidate within these markets, to enter new markets, and to generate operating leverage through acquisitions. Since fiscal 2013, we have executed 13 transactions, investing approximately $3.1 billion, and have demonstrated an ability to efficiently and effectively integrate these acquisitions.
While we are rigorously focused on driving Catalent’s organic growth, we intend to continue to opportunistically source and execute bolt-on strategic acquisitions within our existing business areas, as well as to undertake transactions that provide us with expansion opportunities within new geographic markets or adjacent market segments. We have a dedicated corporate development team in place to identify these opportunities and have a rigorous and financially disciplined process for evaluating, executing, and integrating such acquisitions.
Our Reporting Segments
In fiscal 2020, we engaged in a business reorganization of our operating segments to better align our internal business unit structure with our “Follow the Molecule” strategy and the increased focus on our biologics-related offerings. Under the revised structure, we changed the components and names of three of our four operating segments (with our fourth segment, Clinical Supply Services, unchanged).
We currently operate in four operating segments, which also constitute our four reporting segments: Softgel and Oral Technologies, Biologics, Oral and Specialty Delivery, and Clinical Supply Services, as further described below.
Softgel and Oral Technologies
Through our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment, we provide formulation, development, and manufacturing services for soft capsules, or “softgels,” as well as large-scale manufacturing of oral solid dose forms for pharmaceutical and consumer health markets, and supporting ancillary services.
Catalent’s softgel technology was first commercialized by our predecessor in the 1930s, and we have continually enhanced the platform since then. We are the market leader in overall softgel development and manufacturing and hold the leading market position in innovator drug softgels. Our principal softgel technologies include traditional softgel capsules, in which the shell is made of animal-derived gelatin, and Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules, in which the shell is made from plant-derived materials. Softgel capsules are used in a broad range of customer products, including prescription drugs, over-the-counter medications, dietary supplements, unit-dose cosmetics, and animal health medicinal preparations. Softgel capsules encapsulate liquid, paste, or oil-based formulations of active compounds in solution or suspension within an outer shell. In the manufacturing process, the capsules are formed, filled, and sealed simultaneously. We typically perform encapsulation for a product within one of our softgel facilities, with active ingredients provided by customers or sourced directly by us. Softgels have historically been used to solve formulation challenges or technical issues for a specific drug, to help improve the clinical performance of compounds, to provide important market differentiation, particularly for over-the-counter medications, and to provide safe handling of hormonal, highly potent, and cytotoxic drugs. We also participate in the softgel vitamin, mineral, and supplement business in selected regions around the world. With the 2001 introduction of our plant-derived softgel shell,
11

Vegicaps capsules, consumer health customers have been able to extend the softgel dose form to a broader range of active ingredients and serve patient/consumer populations that were previously inaccessible due to religious, dietary, or cultural preferences. In recent years, we have extended this platform to pharmaceutical products via our OptiShell capsule offering. Our Vegicaps and OptiShell capsules are protected by patents in most major global markets. Physician and patient studies we have conducted have demonstrated a preference for softgels versus traditional tablet and hard capsule dose forms in terms of ease of swallowing, real or perceived speed of delivery, ability to remove or eliminate unpleasant odor or taste, and, for physicians, perceived improved patient adherence with dosing regimens.
Our large-scale cGMP manufacturing of oral solid dose forms typically includes late-stage clinical trial supplies, registration batches, and commercial production across a broad range of formats, and may also involve finished dose packaging or advanced processing of intermediates to achieve the desired clinical performance of the prescription or over-the-counter pharmaceutical product. Finished dose forms include traditional and advanced complex oral solid-doses, including coated and uncoated tablets, pellet/bead/powder-filled two-piece hard capsules, granulated powders, and other immediate and modified release forms. Advanced intermediate processing may include coating, extrusion, or spheronization to achieve specific functional outcomes, including site- or time-specific drug release, taste masking, or enhanced bioavailability. We have deep experience at managing complex technical transfers of clinical or commercial programs, whether from Catalent’s early development network in the Oral and Specialty Delivery segment, other contract development sites, or from customers directly.
Representative customers of Softgel and Oral Technologies include Pfizer, Novartis, Bayer, GlaxoSmithKline, and Procter & Gamble.
Our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment represents 34%, 41%, and 45% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Biologics
Our Biologics segment provides biologic cell-line, cell therapy and viral vector gene therapy development and manufacturing; formulation, development, and manufacturing for parenteral dose forms, including prefilled syringes, vials, and cartridges; and analytical development and testing services for large molecules. The business has extensive expertise in development, scale up, and commercial manufacturing. Representative customers of Biologics include Eli Lilly, Teva, Mylan, Roche, AstraZeneca, Novartis, Sarepta, and Genentech, along with multiple innovative small and mid-tier pharmaceutical and biologics customers.
Our growing biologics offering includes cell-line development based on our advanced and patented GPEx technology and the recently launched GPEx Boost, which are used to develop stable, high-yielding mammalian cell lines for both innovator and biosimilar biologic compounds. GPEx technology can provide rapid cell-line development, high biologics production yields, flexibility, and versatility. Our development and manufacturing facility in Madison, Wisconsin has the capability and capacity to produce cGMP quality biologics drug substance from 250L to 4000L scale using single-use technology to provide maximum efficiency and flexibility. Our fiscal 2018 acquisition of Catalent Indiana added capabilities across biologics development, clinical, and commercial drug substance manufacturing, formulation, finished-dose drug product manufacturing, and packaging. We have continued to expand production capacity in both Madison and Bloomington, Indiana, including a fourth drug substance suite in Madison, and expanded drug product manufacturing and packaging capacity in Bloomington. Our SMARTag next-generation ADC technology, based in Emeryville, California, enables development of ADCs and other protein conjugates with improved efficacy, safety, and manufacturability.
From May 2019 through February 2020, we acquired several cell and gene therapy development and manufacturing assets located in Maryland, Texas, and Belgium, and thereby entered into this fast-growing and innovative space. Our gene therapy platform develops and manufactures products based on transformative technologies, including gene therapies based on AAV and other modalities, next-generation vaccines, oncology immunotherapies (oncolytic viruses and CAR-T cell therapies), therapeutic proteins, and other complex biologics. Our specialized expertise in AAV vectors, the most commonly used delivery system for gene therapy, as well as capabilities in plasmids and lentivirus vectors manufactured using cGMP, positions us to capitalize on strong industry tailwinds in the market for gene therapies. We also provide substantial expertise and expanding capacity for the development and manufacture of autologous and allogeneic cell therapies for customers, as well as a variety of related analytical services.
Our range of injectable manufacturing offerings includes manufacturing drug substance and filling small molecules or biologics into syringes, cartridges, and vials, with flexibility to accommodate other formats within our existing network. Our fill and finish services are increasingly focused on complex pharmaceuticals and biologics. With our range of technologies, we are able to meet a wide range of specifications, timelines, and budgets. We believe that the complexity of the manufacturing process, the importance of experience and know-how, regulatory compliance, and substantial capital requirements provide us with a meaningful competitive advantage in the market.
12

We also offer bioanalytical development and testing services for large molecules, including cGMP release and stability testing. In fiscal 2019, we launched OneBio Suite, which provides customers the potential to seamlessly integrate drug substance, drug product, and clinical supply management for products in development, and for integrated commercial supply across both drug substance and drug product. We provide the broadest range of technologies and services supporting the development and launch of new biologic entities, biosimilars, and biobetters to bring a product from gene to commercialization, faster.
Our Biologics segment represents 33%, 23% and 18% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Oral and Specialty Delivery
Our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment provides advanced formulation development and manufacturing across a range of technologies along with integrated downstream clinical development and commercial supply solutions. The technologies cover a broad range of oral (including our proprietary Zydis orally dissolving tablets and many bioavailability enhancement (BAE) technologies for both immediate and controlled-release tablets and capsules), respiratory and inhaled dose forms, including blow-fill-seal, metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers, and nasal applicators. Representative customers of Oral and Specialty Delivery include Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, Bayer, Perrigo, Roche, and Genentech but also many small and mid-sized companies involved in the clinical development space.
Our oral delivery solutions platform provides comprehensive pre-clinical screening, formulation, analytical development, and cGMP manufacturing at both clinical and commercial scale for both traditional and advanced complex oral solid-dose formats. We have substantial proven experience in developing and scaling up orphan and rare disease oral products, especially those requiring accelerated development timelines, solubility enhancement, specialized handling (e.g., potent or controlled substance materials), complex technology transfer and specialized manufacturing processes. We provide spray drying, hot melt extrusion, micronization, and lipid formulation capabilities, all of which may enhance a drug’s bioavailability and clinical performance. We offer comprehensive analytical method development and scientific capabilities, including stability testing and global regulatory filing services to support integrated development programs or standalone fee-for-service work. In recent years, we have expanded our network of clinical development sites focused on earlier phase compounds (i.e., pre-clinical and Phase I) to engage with more customer molecules earlier, with the intent to also support these molecules downstream as they progress towards commercial approval. Demand for our offerings is driven by the need for scientific expertise, the depth and breadth of integrated services offered, as well as the reliability of our supply performance across quality and operational parameters.
We launched our orally dissolving tablet business in 1986 with the introduction of Zydis, a unique proprietary freeze-dried tablet that dissolves in the mouth, without water, in typically less than three seconds. The platform is often used for drugs that benefit from rapid oral dissolution and buccal absorption and for drugs for specialized patient groups, including geriatric or pediatric populations, that have difficulty swallowing (dysphagia). We can adapt the Zydis technology to a wide range of molecules and indications, including prescription treatments for a variety of central nervous system-related conditions such as migraine, Parkinson’s disease, and schizophrenia, and also for a range of consumer healthcare products targeting broader indications such as pain or allergy relief. We continue to invest in and develop Zydis orally dissolving tablets in different ways with our customers as we extend the application of the technology to new therapeutic categories, including immunotherapy, vaccines, and biologic molecule delivery.
Our respiratory platform provides integrated molecule screening, formulation development, and commercial manufacturing services for inhaled products delivered via metered dose inhalers, dry powder inhalers, and intra-nasal sprays. Delivery of these inhaled combination device products requires specialized capabilities to account for both the molecule and the device, to ensure accurate repeatable dose delivery.
Our blow-fill-seal platform provides an advanced aseptic processing technology, which uses a continuous process to form, fill with drug or biologic, and seal a plastic container in a sterile environment. Blow-fill-seal units are currently used for a variety of pharmaceuticals in liquid form, such as nebulized respiratory, ophthalmic, and otic products. We offer significant manufacturing capacity and flexibility in dose form design and provide development and scalable solutions for unit-dose delivery of complex formulations, such as suspensions and emulsions, for both small and large molecules.
Our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment represents 22%, 23%, and 20% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
13

Clinical Supply Services
Our Clinical Supply Services segment provides manufacturing, packaging, storage, distribution, and inventory management for drugs and biologics in clinical trials. We offer customers flexible solutions for clinical supplies production and provide distribution and inventory management support for both simple and complex clinical trials. This includes over-encapsulation where needed; supplying placebos, comparator drug procurement, and clinical packages and kits for physicians and patients; inventory management; investigator kit ordering and fulfillment; and return supply reconciliation and reporting. We support trials in all regions of the world through our facilities and distribution network. In recent years, we have continued to expand and extend our network, with significant expansions in Kansas City, Missouri and Singapore and new facilities in China and, effective July 2020, in Japan. We are the leading provider of integrated development solutions and one of the leading providers of clinical trial supplies. Representative customers of Clinical Supply Services include Merck KGaA, IQVIA, Eli Lilly, AbbVie, and Incyte Corporation.
Our Clinical Supply Services segment represents 11%, 13%, and 17% of our aggregate revenue before inter-segment eliminations for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Integrated Development and Product Supply Chain Solutions
In addition to our proprietary offerings, we are also differentiated in the market by our ability to bring together our development solutions and advanced delivery technologies to offer innovative development and product supply solutions that can be combined or tailored in many ways to enable our customers to take their drugs, biologics, and consumer health products from laboratory to market. Once a product is on the market, we can provide comprehensive integrated product supply, from the sourcing of the bulk active ingredient to comprehensive manufacturing and packaging, to the testing required for release, and to distribution. The customer- and product-specific solutions we develop are flexible, scalable, and creative, so that they meet the unique needs of both large and emerging companies and are appropriate for products of all sizes. We believe that our development and product supply solutions, such as OptiForm Solution Suite and OneBio Suite, will continue to contribute to our future growth.
Sales and Marketing
Our target customers include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, mid-size, emerging, and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and consumer health companies, along with companies in other selected healthcare market segments such as animal health and medical devices, and companies in adjacent industries, such as cosmetics. We have longstanding, extensive relationships with leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In fiscal 2020, we did business with 86 of the top 100 branded drug marketers, 24 of the top 25 generics marketers, 23 of the top 25 biologics marketers, and 22 of the top 25 consumer health marketers globally, as well as with more than 1,000 other customers. Faced with access, pricing, and reimbursement pressures as well as other market challenges, large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have increasingly sought partners to enhance the clinical competitiveness of their drugs and biologics and improve the productivity of their research and development activities, while reducing their fixed cost base. Many mid-size, emerging, and specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, while facing the same pricing and market pressures, have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather to partner with other companies through licensing agreements or outsourcing to access the critical skills, technologies, and services required to bring their products to market. Consumer health companies require rapidly developed, innovative dose forms and formulations to keep up with the fast-paced over-the-counter medication, vitamins, and personal care markets. These market segments are all important to our growth, but require distinct solutions, marketing and sales approaches, and market strategy.
We follow a hybrid demand-generation organization model, with strategic account teams offering the full breadth of Catalent’s solutions, and technical specialist teams providing the in-depth technical knowledge and practical experience essential for each individual offering. Our sales organization currently consists of more than 160 full-time, experienced sales professionals, supported by inside sales and sales operations. We also have built a dedicated strategic marketing team, providing strategic market and product planning and management for our offerings. As part of our marketing efforts, we participate in major trade shows relevant to our offerings globally and ensure adequate visibility to our offerings and solutions through a comprehensive print and on-line advertising and publicity program. We believe that Catalent is a strong brand with high overall awareness in our established markets and universe of target customers, and that our brand identity is a competitive advantage for us.
14

Global Accounts
We manage selected accounts globally due to their substantial current business and growth potential. We recorded approximately 17% of our total revenue in fiscal 2020 from these global accounts. Each global account is assigned a lead business development professional with substantial industry experience. These account leaders, along with other members of the sales and executive leadership teams, are responsible for managing and extending the overall account relationship. Account leaders work closely with the rest of the sales organization to ensure alignment around critical priorities for the accounts.
Emerging, Specialty, and Virtual Accounts
Emerging, specialty, and virtual pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are expected to be critical drivers of industry growth globally. Historically, many of these companies have chosen not to build a full infrastructure, but rather partner with other companies to formulate, develop, analyze, test, and manufacture their products. We expect them to continue to do so in the future, providing a critical source for future integrated solutions demand. We expect to continue to increase our penetration of geographic clusters of emerging companies in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. We regularly use active pipeline and product screening and customer targeting to identify the optimal candidates for partnering based on product profiles, funding status, and relationships, to ensure that our technical sales specialists and field sales representatives develop custom solutions designed to address the specific needs of these customers.
Seasonality; Fluctuations in Operation Results
Our annual financial reporting periods end on June 30. Our revenue and net earnings are generally higher in the third and fourth quarters of each fiscal year, with our first fiscal quarter typically generating our lowest revenue of any quarter, and our last fiscal quarter typically generating our highest revenue. These fluctuations are primarily the result of the timing of our, and our customers’, annual operational maintenance periods at locations in continental Europe and the U.K., the seasonality associated with pharmaceutical and biotechnology budgetary spending decisions, clinical trial and research and development schedules, the timing of new product launches and length of time needed to obtain full market penetration, and, to a lesser extent, the time of the year some of our customers’ products are in higher demand.
Contractual Arrangements
We generally enter into a broad range of contractual arrangements with our customers, including agreements with respect to feasibility, development, supply, licenses, and quality. The terms of these contracts vary significantly depending on the offering and customer requirements. Some of our agreements may include a variety of revenue arrangements, such as fee-for-service, minimum volume commitments, royalties, manufacturing preparation services, profit-sharing, and fixed fees. We employ a range of capacity access approaches, from standard to completely dedicated capacity models, based on customer and product needs. We generally secure pricing and other contract mechanisms in our supply agreements to allow for periodic resetting of pricing terms, and, in some cases, these agreements permit us to raise or renegotiate pricing in the event of certain price increases for the raw materials we use to make products. Our typical supply agreements include indemnification from our customers for product liability and intellectual property matters and caps on our contractual liabilities, subject in each case to negotiated exclusions. The terms of our manufacturing supply agreements range from three to seven years with regular renewals of one to three years, although some of our agreements are terminable upon much shorter notice periods, such as 30 or 90 days. For our development solutions offerings, we may enter into master service agreements, which provide for standardized terms and conditions and make it easier and faster for customers with multiple development needs to access our offerings.
Backlog
While we generally have long-term supply agreements that provide for a revenue stream over a period of years, our backlog represents, as of a point in time, future service revenues from work not yet completed. For our Softgel and Oral Technologies, Biologics, and Oral and Specialty Delivery segments, backlog represents firm orders for manufacturing services and includes minimum volumes, where applicable. For our Clinical Supply Services segment, backlog represents estimated future service revenues from work not yet completed under signed contracts. Using these methods of reporting backlog, as of June 30, 2020, our backlog was $2,282.3 million compared to $1,349.8 million as of June 30, 2019, including $424.7 million and $366.3 million, respectively, related to our Clinical Supply Services segment. We expect to recognize as revenue approximately 72% of the value of the backlog in existence as of June 30, 2020 by the completion of fiscal 2021.
To the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. If a customer cancels an order, we may be reimbursed for the costs we have incurred. For orders that are placed inside a contractual firm period, we generally have a contractual right to payment in the event of cancellation. Fluctuations in our reported backlog levels also result from the timing and order pattern of our customers who often seek to manage their level of inventory on hand. Because of customer ordering patterns, our backlog reported for certain periods may fluctuate and may not be indicative of future results.
15

Manufacturing Capabilities
We operate manufacturing facilities, development centers, and sales offices throughout the world. As of June 30, 2020, we had 53 facilities (4 geographical locations operate as multiple facilities because they support more than one reporting segment) on four continents with 7.1 million square feet of manufacturing, laboratory, and related space. In addition, in May 2020, we agreed to acquire a clinical packaging facility in Shiga, Japan from Takeda-Teva Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. The acquisition closed in July 2020. Our manufacturing capabilities include the full suite of competencies relevant to support each site’s activities, including regulatory, quality assurance, and in-house validation.
We operate our manufacturing facilities and development centers in accordance with cGMP or other applicable requirements. All of these sites are registered where required with the FDA or other applicable regulatory agencies, such as the EMA. In some cases, our sites are registered with multiple regulatory agencies.
We have invested $860.4 million in our manufacturing and development facilities since fiscal 2018 for improvements and expansions, including $465.8 million for capital expenditures in fiscal 2020. We believe that our sites and equipment are in good condition, are well maintained, and are able to operate at or above present levels for the foreseeable future, in all material respects.
Our manufacturing operations are focused on employee health and safety, regulatory compliance, operational excellence, continuous improvement, and process standardization across the organization. In fiscal 2020, we achieved approximately 97% on-time shipment delivery versus customer request date across our network as a result of this focus. Our manufacturing operations are structured around an enterprise management philosophy and methodology that utilizes principles and tools common to a number of quality management programs, including Lean Six Sigma and Lean Manufacturing.
Raw Materials
We use a broad and diverse range of raw materials in the design, development, and manufacture of our products. This includes, but is not limited to, key materials such as gelatin, starch, and iota carrageenan for our Softgel and Oral Technologies segment; packaging films for our Clinical Supply Services segment; and glass vials and syringes for injectable fill-finish in our Biologics segment, and resin for our blow-fill-seal business in our Oral and Specialty Delivery segment. The raw materials that we use are sourced externally on a global basis. Globally, our supplier relationships could be interrupted due to natural disasters and international supply disruptions, including those caused by pandemics or geopolitical and other issues. For example, commercially usable gelatin is available from a limited number of sources. In addition, much of the gelatin we use is bovine-derived. Past concerns of contamination from Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (“BSE”) have narrowed the number of possible sources of particular types of gelatin. If there were a future disruption in the supply of gelatin from any one or more key suppliers, there can be no assurance that we could obtain an alternative supply from our other suppliers. Any future restriction that were to emerge on the use of bovine-derived gelatin from certain geographic sources due to concerns of contamination from BSE could hinder our ability to timely supply our customers with products and the use of alternative non-bovine-derived gelatin for specific customer products could be subject to lengthy formulation, testing and regulatory approval periods.
We work very closely with our suppliers to assure continuity of supply while maintaining excellence in material quality and reliability. We continually evaluate alternate sources of supply, although we do not frequently pursue regulatory qualification of alternative sources for key raw materials due to the strength of our existing supplier relationships, the reliability of our current supplier base, and the time and expense associated with the regulatory process. Although a change in suppliers could require significant effort or investment by us in circumstances where the items supplied are integral to the performance of our products or incorporate specialized material such as gelatin, we do not believe that the loss of any existing supply arrangement would have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry—Our future results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the costs, availability, and suitability of the components of the products we manufacture, including active pharmaceutical ingredients, excipients, purchased components, and raw materials.”
Competition
We compete with multiple companies as to each of our offerings and in every region of the globe in which we operate, including with other companies that offer conventional and advanced delivery technologies, clinical trials support, outsourced dose form, biologics or cell and gene therapy manufacturing, or development services to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health companies based in North America, South America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. We also compete in some cases with the internal operations of those pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and consumer health customers that also have manufacturing capabilities and choose to source these services internally. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have access to more substantial resources, which could be deployed to expand their range of offerings or capacity.
16

Competition is driven by proprietary technologies and know-how (where relevant), capabilities, consistency of operational performance, quality, price, value, responsiveness, and speed. While we do have competitors that compete with us in our individual offerings, and a few competitors that compete across many of our offerings, we do not believe we have competition from any directly comparable company.
Research and Development Costs
Our research activities are primarily directed toward the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements. Costs incurred in connection with the development of new offerings and manufacturing process improvements are recorded within selling, general, and administrative expenses. Such research and development costs included in selling, general, and administrative expenses amounted to $2.6 million, $3.3 million, and $6.3 million for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Costs incurred in connection with research and development services we provide to customers and services performed in support of the commercial manufacturing process for customers are recorded within cost of sales. Such research and development costs included in cost of sales amounted to $61.2 million, $51.2 million, and $46.2 million for fiscal years ended 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Employees
As of June 30, 2020, we had more than 13,900 employees in 53 facilities on 4 continents: 22 facilities are in the United States, with certain employees at one facility being represented by a labor organization with their terms and conditions of employment being subject to a collective bargaining agreement. National works councils and/or labor organizations are active at all seventeen of our European facilities consistent with labor environments and laws in European countries. Similar relationships with labor organizations or national works councils exist at our plants in Argentina, Brazil, and Canada. Our management believes that our employee relations are satisfactory.
																	
	North America	Europe	South America	Asia Pacific	Total
Approximate number of employees as of June 30, 2020	7,600	4,900	900	500	13,900

Corporate Responsibility
The guiding lighthouse of our corporate responsibility (CR) commitment is our corporate mission to help people live better, healthier lives, which is enabled by our deep belief in our values. We continue to invest in a corporate culture that understands and prioritizes our impact on people in our operations and decision-making.
Governance
Environmental and social responsibility have always been integral to our core values. We established the Office of Corporate Responsibility in fiscal 2017 and created a formal governance structure through our CR Council, which reports to the Chair and CEO. Composed of members of our senior leadership, the Council oversees the implementation of our CR strategy and commitments across our business.
Business benefits
Beyond being the right thing to do, our focus on CR strengthens our business by reducing risks, meeting customer and investor expectations, and attracting top talent. CR performance is an important contributor to our business success. It informs our risk management process, protects our reputation, and alerts us to regulatory, environmental, and societal threats to our business. Our CR activities also align with many of our customers’ CR programs and strengthens our relationships.
Our future success depends on our highly skilled and dedicated global team of employees, who are passionate about improving health outcomes. We compete for top talent in our industry and recognize that our culture and reputation as a responsible company can be a differentiator for attracting job candidates and keeping our existing employees.
Environment, Social, and Governance (ESG) progress in fiscal 2020
Our CR strategy stands on four pillars—Innovation, People, Environment, and Communities—and we have instituted a scorecard approach to monitor how each of the operating segments and sites across our network contributes to meeting our goals.
Significant areas of progress in fiscal 2020, include:
•Publishing our first Corporate Responsibility report, informed by the requirements of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) for Biotechnology and Pharmaceuticals and covering ESG issues including:
17

◦Quality,
◦Safety,
◦Environmental sustainability,
◦Diversity & inclusion, and
◦Community investment and philanthropy.
•As part of our on-going commitment to the "CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion" pledge, growing our employee resource group (ERG) network to seven. ERGs are voluntary, employee-run groups that bring people together based on shared characteristics, interests, or life experiences.
•Employing EDGE Strategy to conduct a formal gender equality workforce assessment for our U.S. operations and expanded our global gender pay analysis.
•After extensive work to establish a verifiable and calculable baseline, formalizing a target to reduce our carbon emissions by 15% over the next five years, and thereby taking action to support global efforts to address climate change.
•Significantly growing employee and nonprofit participation in our suite of “Catalent Cares” community giving and volunteer programs. A few highlights from the most recent fiscal year:
◦Employee participation in Catalent Month of Service grew by 50% and engagement in our matching gift program tripled compared to fiscal 2019.
◦Adjusting to the realities of social distancing required by the COVID-19 pandemic, Catalent "green" teams took our annual Earth Month celebration on-line by organizing digital awareness campaigns; developing do-it-yourself videos with “green” project ideas; and encouraging site-based initiatives, such as seed packet distribution to employees.
◦Catalent and its employees donated approximately $500,000 to international and local nonprofits serving communities affected by COVID-19, making the 2020 fiscal year the largest philanthropic year for Catalent yet.
Looking ahead
Looking forward, we will expand our CR efforts and improve our performance in critical areas: We will assess how to integrate our respect for human rights more fully into our policies and practices and bolster the auditing of social and environmental standards in our supply chain. We commit to further developing our waste and water reduction strategies and sharing targets in those important environmental areas in our next CR report. We will continue to grow our community partnerships and employee-driven giving and volunteer programs, and will deepen our commitment to serving patients and promoting STEM education, training, and job-placement in our communities.
Further information on our CR program is available at https://www.catalent.com/cr, but this website is not part of our public disclosures and is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
Intellectual Property
We rely on a combination of know-how, trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect a number of our offerings, services, and intangible assets. These proprietary rights are important to our ongoing operations. Certain of our operations and products are covered by intellectual property licenses from third parties, and in certain instances we license our technology to third parties. We also have a long track record of innovation across our lines of business, and, to further encourage active innovation, we have developed incentive compensation systems linked to patent filings and other recognition and reward programs for scientists and non-scientists alike.
We have applied in the United States and certain other countries for registration of a number of trademarks, service marks, and patents, some of which have been registered and issued, and also hold common law rights in various trademarks and service marks. We hold nearly 1,300 patents and patent applications worldwide relating to advanced drug delivery and biologics formulations and technologies, as well as manufacturing and other areas relevant to our business.
We hold patents and license rights relating to certain aspects of our formulations, nutritional and pharmaceutical dosage forms, mammalian cell engineering, and sterile manufacturing services. We also hold patents relating to certain processes and products. We have a number of pending patent applications in the United States and certain other countries and intend to pursue additional patents as appropriate. We have enforced and will continue to enforce our intellectual property rights in the United
18

States and worldwide.
We do not consider any particular patent, trademark, license, franchise, or concession to be material to our overall business.
Regulatory Matters
The manufacture, distribution, and marketing of healthcare products and the provision of certain services for development-stage pharmaceutical and biotechnology products are subject to extensive ongoing regulation by the FDA, other U.S. governmental authorities, and regulatory authorities in other countries. Certain of our subsidiaries are required to register for permits or licenses with, and must comply with the operating, cGMP, quality, and security standards of, applicable domestic and foreign healthcare regulators, including the FDA, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency (the “DEA”), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (the “DHHS”), the equivalent agencies of the European Union (the “E.U.”) and its member states, and various state boards of pharmacy, state health departments, and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions, as well as various accrediting bodies, each depending upon the type of operations and the locations of distribution and sale of the products manufactured or services provided by those subsidiaries.
In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to other healthcare laws, including the U.S. Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act, the Controlled Substances Act, and comparable state and foreign laws and regulations in certain of their activities.
We are also subject to various federal, state, local, national, and transnational laws, regulations, and requirements, both in the United States and other countries, relating to safe working conditions, laboratory and distribution practices, and the use, transportation, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, applicable import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating to the cross-border transit of finished goods, raw materials, and supplies and the handling of information. We are also subject to various other laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our non-U.S. operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act, and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records.
The costs associated with complying with the various applicable federal, state, local, national, and transnational regulations could be significant, and the failure to comply with such legal requirements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See “Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry—Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition or result in claims from customers,” for additional discussion of the costs associated with complying with the various regulations.
In fiscal 2020, we were subject to 50 regulatory audits, and, over the last five fiscal years, we successfully completed approximately 290 regulatory audits.
Quality Assurance
We are committed to ensuring and maintaining the highest standard of regulatory compliance while providing high quality products to our customers. To meet these commitments, we have developed and implemented a Catalent-wide quality management system. We have nearly 2,000 employees around the globe focusing on quality and regulatory compliance. Our senior management team is actively involved in setting quality policies, standards, and internal position papers as well as managing internal and external quality performance. Our quality assurance department provides quality leadership and supervises our quality systems programs. An internal audit program monitors compliance with applicable regulations, standards, and internal policies. In addition, our facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the DEA, and other equivalent local, state, and foreign regulatory authorities as well as our customers. All FDA, DEA, and other regulatory inspectional observations have been resolved or are on track to be completed at the prescribed timeframe provided in commitments to the applicable agency in all material respects. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the regulations under which our facilities are governed.
Environmental Matters
Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”) and equivalent state, local, and national regulatory agencies in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, soil and groundwater contamination, and employee health and safety. Our manufacturing facilities use, in varying degrees, hazardous substances in their processes. These substances include, among others, chlorinated solvents, and in the past chlorinated solvents were used at one or more of our facilities, including a number we no longer own or operate. As at our current facilities, contamination at such formerly
19

owned or operated properties can result and has resulted in liability to us, for which we have recorded appropriate reserves as needed. We believe that our operations are in compliance in all material respects with the environment, health, and safety regulations applicable to our facilities.


