Business Overview
What We Do
Citrix is an enterprise software company focused on helping organizations deliver a consistent and secure work experience no matter where work needs to get done — in the office, at home, or in the field. We do this by delivering a digital workspace solution that gives each employee the resources and space they need to do their best work. Our Workspace solutions are complemented by our App Delivery and Security (formerly Networking) solutions, by delivering the applications and data employees need across any network with security, reliability and speed.
Citrix believes that work is not a place —work is about business outcomes. We have helped organizations with digital transformation for many years. The challenges and complexities created by the proliferation of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)-based applications and the emergence of hybrid multi-cloud infrastructure environments are now combined with the realities brought upon by the global COVID-19 pandemic—realities such as long-term remote and flexible work models and an increased need for risk mitigation and business continuity.
As a result, we believe organizations are accelerating their cloud and digital transformation plans to better position themselves to address these new challenges and embrace the opportunity that may arise from flexible work models. To do this, organizations may rely on Citrix solutions for business agility, employee productivity, security and compliance, as well as cost and efficiency. Citrix solutions are focused on employee empowerment and are designed to provide end-users with the simplicity of a common user experience while ensuring information technology, or IT, administrators are able to deliver applications and data with the security and controls necessary to protect the enterprise and its customers.
Our Business Transformation
Citrix's business is evolving in three distinct and interrelated ways:
•Perpetual to Subscription: Our business model has shifted away from selling perpetual licenses towards subscription, or recurring contracts in the form of SaaS, on-premise term, and consumption-based agreements;
•On-Premise to Cloud: As the share of applications and data continues to move rapidly from on-premise data centers to the cloud, our product development and engineering resources have increasingly focused on delivering cloud-based solutions; and
•Point Products to Platform: Our offerings and our go-to-market activities are shifting away from selling individual point products towards our platform solution, in a tiered offering that provides us the ability to deliver a variety of value-enhancing modules to our customers in the future.
5

Citrix was incorporated in Delaware on April 17, 1989.
Proposed Acquisition of Wrike
On January 16, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Wrike, Inc. (“Wrike”), a leader in the SaaS collaborative work management space, for $2.25 billion in cash. The transaction, which has been unanimously approved by the board of directors of both Citrix and Wrike, is expected to close in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We believe this acquisition will allow us to accelerate our strategy to build on and expand beyond the growing virtualization market by delivering a cloud-based digital workspace experience empowering all employees to securely access, collaborate, and execute work in the most effective way across any work channel, device or location.
Solutions and Services
We offer digital workspace solutions and services that enable companies to deliver a consistent work experience by providing secure and reliable access to the systems and information employees need to do their best work, no matter where work needs to get done — in the office, at home, or in the field. Our offerings empower organizations to accelerate business performance by harnessing technology to enhance employee engagement, boost productivity, and drive innovation.
Workspace
The Citrix Workspace platform encompasses a broad range of features and functionalities that tie together the myriad of applications that reside within enterprises. Citrix Workspace helps employees minimize distractions and focus, enabling them to do their best work, elevating employee productivity and employee engagement, and improving an enterprise’s security profile. Citrix Workspace delivers a unified, secure and intelligent workspace with single sign-on access to all the applications and content employees use in one unified platform. Citrix Workspace enables IT administrators to proactively manage security threats in complex, distributed, hybrid, multi-cloud and multi-device environments, and it empowers IT administrators to deliver applications to end users more securely than operating them natively. Intelligent analytics and user behavior insights are derived to enable enhanced security, management, orchestration, and automation of workspaces and application delivery.
Citrix Workspace comes with ready integrations with widely-used business applications, including Salesforce, Workday, SAP Ariba and SAP Concur, ServiceNow, Microsoft Outlook and Google Workspace (formerly G Suite) and is compatible with identity and access management providers, including Okta, Ping, Radius, and GoogleID. Citrix Workspace can be delivered on-premise, running in a customers’ datacenter, or in the cloud. Pricing for the Citrix Workspace platform is tiered based on the level of functionalities provided. Capabilities offered as part of the platform include:
•Citrix Workspace - delivers an intelligent experience that customizes and streamlines user workflows by creating microapps through low-code tooling, enabling organizations to organize, guide and automate work, tasks and functions, and allows end users to perform actions across various applications directly within the Citrix Workspace.
•Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops - gives employees the freedom to work anywhere on any device while cutting IT costs and securely delivering Windows, Linux, Web and SaaS apps, and full virtual desktops. Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops offers a choice of deployment options ranging from a turnkey desktop-as-a-service solution running on the Microsoft Azure cloud to a host of premium options running in the cloud, hybrid, or on-premises.
•Citrix Analytics for Security - continuously assesses the behavior of Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops users and Citrix Workspace users and applies actions to protect sensitive corporate information. The aggregation and correlation of data across networks, virtualized applications and desktops, and content collaboration tools enables the generation of valuable insights and more focused actions to address user security threats.
•Citrix Analytics for Performance - uses machine learning to quantify user experience, providing end-to-end visibility and enabling capacity planning and proactive response to performance degradation.
•Citrix Content Collaboration - provides a secure, cloud-based file sharing, digital transaction and storage solution built to give users enterprise-class data services across all corporate and personal devices.
•Citrix Endpoint Management - provides unified endpoint management allowing IT administrators to adhere to security and compliance requirements for "bring your own device" programs and corporate devices while enabling user productivity. Centralizes the management of mobile devices, traditional desktops, laptops and Internet of Things, or IoT, through a single platform, directly integrating with Microsoft EMS/Intune to extend mobility and device management capabilities.
6

•Citrix Secure Workspace Access - provides an end-to-end solution to implement Zero Trust principles (i.e., required verification of all users whether inside or outside of a network), avoiding the gaps left from relying on assorted point solutions. It reduces the attack surface by protecting the user and the apps inside the workspace, where work actually gets done.
•Citrix Secure Internet Access - provides a solution that protects direct internet access for branch and remote workers using unsanctioned apps.
App Delivery and Security

Our App Delivery and Security solutions optimize the performance of Citrix Workspace. They enable organizations to deliver applications and data with security, reliability, and speed. Our App Delivery and Security products can be consumed via perpetual license or under pooled licensing agreements that give customers flexibility to consume in either a hardware form factor or as software, over the term of the agreement. Our App Delivery and Security capabilities include:
•Citrix ADC - an application delivery controller and load balancing solution for web, traditional and cloud-based applications regardless of where they are hosted.
•Citrix SD-WAN and Secure Access Service Edge (SASE) - a next-generation WAN Edge solution that delivers flexible, automated, secure connectivity and performance for the workspace.
Customer Success
We offer support and services to help our customers and business partners get more value, achieve their business outcomes, minimize risk, and keep their solutions running at peak performance:
•Customer Success Management (CSM) - available to all customers with a valid SaaS or subscription entitlement. The CSM team, comprised of Customer Success Managers and Customer Success Engineers, guides business and technical outcomes. Through success planning, technical and onboarding guidance, and internal advocacy, the CSM team helps customers accelerate their implementation and maximize the value of their Citrix solutions.
•Customer Success Services - features a choice of tiered offerings combining technical support, product version upgrades, guidance, enablement, and proactive monitoring to help customers and partners fully realize their business goals and maximize their Citrix investments. Additionally, customers may upgrade to receive personalized support from a dedicated team led by an assigned account manager.
•Hardware Maintenance - features a choice of tiered offerings including technical support, software upgrades, and replacement of malfunctioning appliances to keep Citrix hardware running optimally. Premium support services are available as add-ons.
•Citrix Consulting - guides the successful design and implementation of Citrix solutions, removing the barriers to desired business outcomes. Our in-house consultants bring technical expertise with proven methodologies, tools and leading practices to improve adoption and enhance security.
•Product Training & Certification - enables customers and partners to attain self-sufficiency, increase productivity, maximize product capabilities, and advance their career with flexible training options to suit all learners and certifications to validate knowledge and skills.
Customers
Our customers are businesses of all sizes and include the largest enterprises and institutions in the world spanning every major industry vertical, including healthcare, financial services, technology, manufacturing, consumer, and government agencies. Our largest customers are often our longest tenured customers.
Technology Relationships
We have a number of technology relationships in place to accelerate the development of existing and future solutions and our go-to-market initiatives. These relationships include cross-licensing, original equipment manufacturer (OEM), resell, joint reference architectures, and other arrangements that result in better solutions for our customers.
7

Microsoft
For over 30 years, Citrix and Microsoft have maintained a strategic partnership spanning product development, go-to-market initiatives and partner development, enabling our mutual customers’ secure, high-performance delivery of applications, desktops and data to their employees. Together, Citrix and Microsoft offer solutions and services that aid and accelerate the transition from on-premises IT infrastructure and practices to emerging hybrid-cloud and multi-cloud delivery models for the full breadth of legacy and modern applications.
Citrix and Microsoft provide joint tools and services to simplify and speed the transition of on-premises Citrix customers to Microsoft Azure. The companies have a connected roadmap to enable a consistent and optimal flexible work experience that includes joint solutions sold through their direct sales forces via the Azure Marketplace and a robust community of channel partners.
Google
Citrix and Google Cloud have been strategic partners for over eight years. We offer end-to-end user experience solutions for Citrix Workspace with Google Cloud Platform, Chrome Enterprise, and Google Workspace (formerly G Suite), as well as complementary App Delivery and Security. These solutions enable companies to deliver unified access to all of the apps employees need and prefer to use on Google devices and operating systems.
Global System Integrators
We continue to invest in partnerships with Global System Integrators who provide solutions and services that build on Citrix Workspace and Citrix App Delivery and Security solutions to improve employee experience and engagement, including Capgemini, Deloitte, DXC, Fujitsu, Hewlett Packard Enterprises, IBM and Wipro. These partnerships help our customers develop effective digital workspace strategies that enable them to deliver a consistent work experience across work channels and locations.
Citrix Ready
We continue to provide an easy way for our customers to locate compatible solutions and our channel partners to evaluate and deploy joint offerings through our Citrix Ready program. The Citrix Ready Program is a technology partner program that helps software and hardware vendors of all types develop and integrate their products with Citrix technology. It includes partners like AWS, Cisco, Google, and Microsoft and hundreds of other technology companies. With work happening on a proliferation of devices, companies have a whole new set of security concerns they must address. To help them do it, we expanded the Citrix Ready Workspace Security Program to include Zero Trust solutions from trusted and verified partners. This expansion will allow companies to simplify the selection of vendors and leverage their existing investments to design a modern security framework that delivers Zero Trust outcomes.
Research and Development
Our research and development efforts focus on developing new functionalities across our solutions, while continuing to invest in purposeful improvements to our core technologies. We solicit extensive feedback concerning product development from customers and through our channel distributors and partners, as well as our alliance partners. We believe that our global software development teams and our core technologies represent a significant competitive advantage for us. As of December 31, 2020, we held a worldwide portfolio of approximately 3,500 patents and had approximately 1,800 additional patent applications pending. We incurred research and development expenses of $538.1 million in 2020, $518.9 million in 2019 and $440.0 million in 2018.
Sales, Marketing and Services
We market and license our solutions through multiple channels worldwide, including selling through resellers, direct and over the Web. Our partner community comprises thousands of value-added resellers, or VARs, known as Citrix Solution Advisors, value-added distributors, or VADs, system integrators, or SIs, independent software vendors, or ISVs, OEMs, and Citrix Service Providers, or CSPs. Distribution channels are managed by our worldwide sales and services organization. Partners receive training and certification opportunities to support our portfolio of solutions and services.
We reward our partners that identify new business, and provide sales expertise, services delivery, customer education, technical implementation and support of our portfolio of solutions through our incentive program. We continue to focus on increasing the productivity of our existing partners, while also adding new transacting partners, building capacity through
8

targeted recruitment, and introducing programs to increase partner mindshare, limit channel conflict, and increase partner loyalty to us.
As our customers shift workloads to the cloud, we have been cultivating a global base of technology partners within our CSP program. Our CSP program provides subscription-based services in which the CSP partners host software services to their end users. Our CSP partners, consisting of managed service providers, ISVs, Citrix Solution Advisors, hosting providers and telcos, among others, license certain of our offerings on a monthly consumption basis. With our software, these partners then create differentiated offerings of their own, consisting of cloud-hosted applications and cloud-hosted desktops, which they manage for various customers, ranging from SMBs to enterprise IT. Besides supplying technology, we are actively engaged in assisting these partners in developing their hosted businesses either within their respective data centers or leveraging public cloud infrastructure by supplying business and marketing assistance.
Online marketplaces, including Cloud Marketplaces and Cloud Service Brokers have become a strategic channel for customers to streamline the discovery, acquisition, deployment, and operations of services enabling them to adapt quickly to changing market conditions. Growth in the use of online marketplaces has been driven by the increased focus on cloud services and the increase in demand for work-at-home, business continuity, and remote access to services and data.
We are present in three key cloud marketplaces, Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), Azure and Google, that enable customers to easily deploy licenses acquired through multiple channels, quickly acquire new services and software, and expand as their needs grow. We provide both public and private options to drive customer and partner success.
Engagement with SIs and ISVs continues to be a substantial part of our strategic roadmap within large enterprise and government markets. Our integrator partnerships include organizations such as DXC, Fujitsu, IBM, Wipro and others, who all deliver consultancy or global offerings powered by the Citrix Workspace. The ISV program maintains a strong representation across targeted industry verticals including healthcare, financial services and telecommunications. Members in the ISV program include Allscripts, Cerner Corporation and Epic Systems Corporation. For all of our channels, we regularly take actions to improve the effectiveness of our partner programs and further strengthen our channel relationships through management of non-performing partners, recruitment of partners with expertise in selling into new markets and forming additional strategic global and national partnerships.
Our corporate marketing organization provides an integrated global approach to sales and industry event support, digital and social marketing, sales enablement tools and collateral, advertising, direct mail, industry analyst relations and public relations coverage to market our solutions. Our efforts in marketing are focused on generating leads for our sales organization and our indirect channels to acquire net new accounts and expand our presence with existing customers, as well as building general brand awareness in the market. Our partner development organization actively supports our partners to improve their commitment and capabilities with Citrix solutions. Our customer sales organization consists of field-based sales engineers and corporate sales professionals who work directly with our largest customers, and coordinate integration services provided by our partners. Additional sales personnel, working in central locations and in the field, provide support including recruitment of prospective partners and technical training with respect to our solutions.
In fiscal year 2020, 2019 and 2018, one distributor accounted for 17%, 15% and 14% respectively, of our total net revenues. The Company's arrangements with the distributor consist of several non-exclusive, independently negotiated agreements with its respective subsidiaries, each of which covers different countries or regions. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 for information regarding our revenue recognition policy.
International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for 50.5% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, 48.2% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2019, and 47.0% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2018. For detailed information on our international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Segment Revenue
We operate under one reportable segment. For additional information, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Operations
For our cloud-based solutions, we use a combination of co-located hosting facilities and increasingly use Microsoft Azure and AWS as well as other infrastructure-as-a-service providers. For our App Delivery and Security products, we use
9

independent contractors to provide a redundant source of manufacture and assembly capabilities. Independent contractors provide us with the flexibility needed to meet our product quality and delivery requirements. We have manufacturing relationships that we enter into in the ordinary course of business, primarily with Flextronics, under which we have subcontracted the majority of our hardware manufacturing activity, generally on a purchase order basis. These third-party contract manufacturers also provide final test, warehousing and shipping services. This subcontracting activity extends from prototypes to full production and includes activities such as material procurement, final assembly, test, control, shipment to our customers and repairs. Together with our contract manufacturers, we design, specify and monitor the tests that are required to meet internal and external quality standards. Our contract manufacturers produce our products based on forecasted demand for our solutions. Each of the contract manufacturers procures components necessary to assemble the products in our forecast and test the products according to our specifications. We dual-source our components; however, in some instances, those sources may be located in the same geographic area. Accordingly, if a natural disaster occurs in one of those areas, we may need to seek additional sources. Products are then shipped to our distributors, VARs or end-users. If the products go unsold for specified periods of time, we may incur carrying charges or obsolete material charges for products ordered to meet our forecast or customer orders. In 2020, we did not experience any material difficulties or significant delays in the manufacture and assembly of our products.
While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized orders, at any given time, we have confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. Backlog includes the aggregate amounts we expect to recognize as point-in-time revenue in the following quarter associated with contractually committed amounts for on-premise subscription software licenses, as well as confirmed product license orders that have not shipped and are unfulfilled. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the amount of backlog was not material. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance.
We believe that our fourth quarter revenues and expenses are affected by a number of seasonal factors, including the lapse of many corporations' fiscal year budgets and an increase in amounts paid pursuant to our sales compensation plans due to compensation plan accelerators that are often triggered in the fourth quarter. We believe that these seasonal factors are common within our industry. Historically, our revenue for the fourth quarter of any year is typically higher than the revenue for the first quarter of the subsequent year. We expect this trend to continue through the first quarter of 2021. However, during the three months ended March 31, 2020, this trend was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and our revenues in the first quarter of 2020 were higher than in the fourth quarter of 2019 due to our decision to make limited use Workspace licenses of Citrix Workspace available in the form of shorter-duration, discounted on-premises term offerings to quickly help our customers with their immediate business needs. In addition, our European operations usually generate lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues on a sequential basis.
Competition
We sell our solutions in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than we do. As the markets for our solutions and services continue to develop, additional companies, including those with significant market presence in the computer appliances, software, cloud services and App Delivery and Security industries, could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See our “Technology Relationships” discussion above and “Risk Factors” below.
Workspace
Our primary competitors for various components of and services delivered through our Workspace offering include VMware, Okta, Box, Dropbox, AWS, Nutanix, MobileIron and Microsoft. We believe Citrix Workspace and our services, including Citrix Virtual Apps and Desktops, Citrix Endpoint Management and Citrix Content and Collaboration, are differentiated by the completeness of the offerings, and the advanced technology and end-user experience, as compared to competitive offerings by VMware, AWS, Microsoft, Nutanix, AirWatch by VMware, MobileIron, Blackberry, Dropbox, Box, and others.
App Delivery and Security
Our Citrix ADC hardware products compete in traditional data-center-deployed application environments against other established competitors, including F5 Networks, Radware, A10 Networks and Cisco. In addition, for cloud-integrated and software-centric use cases, large cloud providers, such as AWS and Microsoft Azure, provide customers with competitive ADC
10

solutions built into their public cloud platforms. We continue to expand our open source integrations with leading companies to enhance feature capability and invest in go-to-market resources to market Citrix ADC to our existing customer base and new potential customers.
Technology and Intellectual Property
We believe that innovation is a core Citrix competency. Our success is dependent upon our solutions, which are based on intellectual property and core proprietary and open source technologies. These technologies include innovations that optimize the end-to-end user experience, through cloud-managed workspaces and analytics, in virtual desktop and virtual application environments, and enhance App Delivery and Security capabilities to deliver a holistic and secure content collaboration and mobile computing experience.
We have been awarded numerous domestic and foreign patents and have numerous pending patent applications in the United States and foreign countries. Certain of our technology is also protected under copyright laws. Additionally, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality and proprietary information agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We have established proprietary trademark rights in markets across the globe, and own hundreds of U.S. and foreign trademark registrations and pending registration applications for marks comprised of or incorporating the Citrix name. See our "Research and Development" discussion above and “Risk Factors” below.
Our People
Citrix solutions enable a better way to work and embrace the power of human difference, and we are guided by our core values of Integrity, Respect, Curiosity, Courage and Unity. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 9,000 employees, of which approximately 46% were in the United States and 54% were in our international locations. We have a broad base of diverse talent in more than 40 countries and we believe that attracting, developing and retaining the best talent is critical to our success and achievement of our strategic objectives. Our voluntary attrition rate was approximately 8% during fiscal year 2020, which is lower than our historical attrition rate. This lower attrition rate is in part due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which we believe has led to fewer people leaving their jobs during 2020.
We encourage you to review our Sustainability Report under the headings “Talent” and “Social Equality” for more detailed information regarding our human capital programs and initiatives. Nothing in our Sustainability Report shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Leadership and Governance
Our Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer is responsible for developing and executing the company’s human capital strategy. This includes directing our global policies and programs for leadership and talent development, compensation, benefits, staffing and workforce planning, human resources systems, skills training and organizational development, workplace strategies, and global sourcing and indirect procurement, and ensuring effective and efficient internal company operations. Our Chief People Officer is responsible for developing and integrating our diversity, inclusion and belonging priorities and strategy, and we have a dedicated team of people with executive leadership participation to implement such strategies.
Our Compensation Committee oversees our company-wide compensation programs and practices, and our Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief People Officer regularly update our Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee on human capital matters.
Compensation and Benefits
Our team is global, and we offer competitive and meaningful compensation and benefits programs that meet the diverse needs of our employees, while also reflecting local market practices. In addition to competitive salaries and bonuses, we offer a robust employment total rewards package that promotes employee well-being and includes retirement planning, health care, extended parental leave, paid time off, and appreciation events for employees. For example, we offer paid leave of up to 18 weeks for all new parents (moms, dads and partners) to care for a newborn or newly adopted child. This paid leave is in addition to the nine paid holidays and other paid time-off from Citrix for family-focused time.
Equity-based compensation is also a key component in attracting, retaining and motivating our employees. We grant equity-based compensation to a significant portion of our employees. We also provide the opportunity for equity ownership through our employee stock purchase plan.
Additionally, we offer benefits to support our employees’ physical and mental health by providing tools and resources to help them improve or maintain their health and encourage healthy behaviors.
11

Growth, Development and Engagement
At Citrix, we have a strong focus on career development and building the capabilities of our team members. We invest in our employees by offering a wide range of development opportunities that promote learning and growth, including five highly interactive core leadership programs geared towards different career stages, various mentoring and coaching programs, a large library of on-demand, virtual and in-person courses that support professional and technical skills development and our tuition reimbursement program. We also believe in building organizational capability through practicing a growth mindset and continuously listening to our employees in order to create desirable employee experiences. We survey our employees frequently, providing managers and teams with highly actionable data that allows us to focus on making improvements in areas that have the largest impact on engagement and team success.
Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging
Diversity, inclusion and belonging have long been a part of our culture, and we work to continually expand our diversity, inclusion and belonging initiatives. We have an employee-run committee focused on diversity, inclusion and belonging initiatives, and our diversity, inclusion and belonging initiatives are supported by our executive leadership team. For example, we recently expanded global parental leave benefits, gender pay equity initiatives and diversity-focused scholarships and programs to support underrepresented minorities, veterans and disabled workers. In 2019, we launched “Cultivating a Culture of Belonging” for our employees, a learning series to explore our own identities, share best practices and offer support as we champion inclusiveness and belonging across the enterprise. The program helps employees encourage an inclusive work environment and learn which factors foster diversity in the workplace.
Our employee resource groups (ERGs) support underrepresented groups of employees and are an important component of our diversity, inclusion and belonging efforts, addressing topics like career development, mentoring, recruiting and interviewing candidates, advocacy and networking. As of December 31, 2020, we had ten ERGs with 29 chapters across nine offices in seven countries.
Also, in 2020, we launched a racial equity strategy with the objectives of supporting black students and businesses, modifying our people processes to promote racial equity, transparently sharing data as we progress on our journey, and personal learning about systemic racism. We are committed to listening, learning, and making sustainable change to stand against racism, bias and violence.
COVID-19 Response
During the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary focus has been on the safety and well-being of our employees and their families. A large majority of our workforce worked remotely and successfully throughout most of 2020. For offices that re-opened, we leveraged the advice and recommendations of medical experts to implement new protocols to ensure the safety of our employees, including face coverings, temperature checks, health certifications, social distancing and capacity limits. We supported our employees through programs and benefits provided throughout the year, pivoting all of our people programs and practices to enable business continuity in the current environment. For example, we provided a $1,000 stipend to all employees, globally, below the vice president level to support them as they transitioned to a work-from-home environment. We also extended paid time-off and sick leave benefits for employees directly impacted by COVID-19.
Importantly, our response to the COVID-19 pandemic reflects our belief that work is a measure of output and accomplishment—not a place—and flexible work means people are most productive when they match their work environment to the outcomes they are trying to deliver. Our success in implementing this work philosophy during the pandemic has driven an evolution in our flexible work approach. Starting in 2021, time in the office will no longer be prescribed, and individuals and teams are empowered to determine how they work best, based on their role, while being accountable for achieving individual and team outcomes.
Available Information
Our Internet address is http://www.citrix.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020.
12
