Caesars Entertainment, Inc., a Delaware corporation formerly known as Eldorado Resorts, Inc. (“ERI” or “Eldorado”), is referred to as the “Company,” “CEI,” “Caesars,” or the “Registrant,” and together with its subsidiaries may also be referred to as “we,” “us” or “our.”
We also refer to (i) our Consolidated Financial Statements as our “Financial Statements,” (ii) our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) as our “Statements of Operations,” (iii) our Consolidated Balance Sheets as our “Balance Sheets,” and (iv) our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as our “Statements of Cash Flows.” References to numbered “Notes” refer to Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.
Overview
We are a geographically diversified gaming and hospitality company that was founded in 1973 by the Carano family with the opening of the Eldorado Hotel Casino in Reno, Nevada. Our primary source of revenue is generated by gaming operations, and we utilize our hotels, restaurants, bars, entertainment, racing, sportsbook offerings, retail shops and other services to attract customers to our properties.
We lease certain real property assets from third parties, including GLP Capital, L.P., the operating partnership of Gaming and Leisure Properties, Inc. (“GLPI”) and VICI Properties L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (“VICI”).
Significant Transactions in 2020
On July 20, 2020, we completed the merger with Caesars Entertainment Corporation (“Former Caesars”) pursuant to which Former Caesars became our wholly-owned subsidiary (the “Merger”). As a result of the Merger, we currently own, lease or manage an aggregate of 54 domestic properties in 16 states with approximately 54,600 slot machines, video lottery terminals (“VLTs”) and e-tables, approximately 3,200 table games and approximately 47,700 hotel rooms as of December 31, 2020. We also have international operations in five countries outside of the U.S. In addition, we have other domestic and international properties that are authorized to use the brands and marks of Caesars Entertainment, Inc., as well as other non-gaming properties. Upon completion of our previously announced sales, or expected sales of certain gaming properties, we expect to continue to own, lease or manage 48 properties. See Item 2, “Properties,” for more information about our properties.
In connection with the Merger, Caesars Entertainment Corporation changed its name to “Caesars Holdings, Inc.” and Eldorado Resorts, Inc. converted into a Delaware corporation and changed its name to “Caesars Entertainment, Inc.” In addition, effective as of July 21, 2020 our ticker symbol on the NASDAQ Stock Market changed from “ERI” to “CZR”. In connection with the Merger, we also entered into a Master Transaction Agreement (the “MTA”) with VICI, pursuant to which, among other things, we agreed to consummate certain sale and leaseback transactions and amend certain lease agreements with VICI and/or its affiliates with respect to certain property described in the MTA. See Item 7 for further discussion of the Merger and Acquisitions Related Activities.
On July 1, 2020, the Company completed the sales of Isle of Capri Casino Kansas City (“Kansas City”) and Lady Luck Casino Vicksburg (“Vicksburg”). On September 30, 2020, the Company completed the sale of Harrah’s Reno.
On April 24, 2020, the Company entered into a definitive purchase agreement with Twin River Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (“Twin River” or subsequently, “Bally’s Corporation”) and certain of its affiliates for the sale of the equity interests of Eldorado Resort Casino Shreveport Joint Venture and Columbia Properties Tahoe, LLC, the entities that hold Eldorado Resort Casino Shreveport (“Eldorado Shreveport”) and MontBleu Casino Resort & Spa (“MontBleu”), for aggregate consideration of $155 million, subject to a customary working capital adjustment. The definitive agreement provides that the consummation of the sale is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals. The sale of Eldorado Shreveport closed on December 23, 2020 for $140 million, subject to a customary working capital adjustment, and the sale of MontBleu is expected to close in the first half of 2021.
On September 3, 2020, the Company and VICI entered into an agreement to sell Harrah’s Louisiana Downs Casino, Racing & Entertainment (“Harrah’s Louisiana Downs”) to Rubico Acquisition Corp. for $22 million, subject to a customary working capital adjustment, which proceeds will be split between the Company and VICI. The sale is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2021.
In connection with its review of the Merger, the Indiana Gaming Commission determined on July 16, 2020 that, as a condition to their approval of the Merger, the Company is required to enter into agreements to divest of three properties within the state of Indiana in order to avoid undue economic concentration. As discussed below, the Company has entered into agreements to sell
3

Tropicana Evansville (“Evansville”) and Caesars Southern Indiana. The Company plans to enter into an agreement to divest Horseshoe Hammond prior to December 31, 2021, as the deadline was extended by the Indiana Gaming Commission.
On October 27, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to sell Evansville to GLPI and Twin River for $480 million in cash, subject to a customary working capital adjustment. The sale is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and is expected to close in mid-2021.
Also on October 27, 2020, in conjunction with the execution of the agreement to sell Evansville, the Company’s subsidiaries, Isle Casino Bettendorf and Isle Casino Hotel Waterloo (collectively, the “Exchanging Subsidiaries”), entered into an Exchange Agreement with GLPI pursuant to which the Exchanging Subsidiaries agreed to transfer the real estate relating to the Isle Casino Bettendorf and Isle Casino Hotel Waterloo to GLPI in exchange for the real estate relating to Evansville. The exchange transaction closed on December 18, 2020 and as a result of the lease being classified as a finance obligation the exchange was accounted for as a debt modification. As a result of the exchange, the real estate relating to Evansville was removed from the master lease with GLPI that we entered into in connection with the acquisition of Tropicana (the “GLPI Master Lease”) and the real estate relating to Isle Casino Bettendorf and Isle Casino Hotel Waterloo is now subject to the GLPI Master Lease.
On November 18, 2020, the sale of Bally's Atlantic City to Bally’s Corporation was completed for $25 million. The proceeds from the sale were split between the Company and VICI, and the Company received $5 million of net proceeds. In addition, on October 9, 2020, we reached an agreement to sell the Bally’s brand to Bally’s Corporation for $20 million, while retaining the right to use the brand within Bally’s Las Vegas into perpetuity. We agreed to reimburse Bally’s Corporation $30 million for capital expenditures required at Bally’s Atlantic City and recorded a liability within Accrued other liabilities and recorded a charge to Discontinued operations, net of income taxes. We expect that such commitment will be satisfied by adjusting obligations under certain sportsbook operating agreements between Bally’s Corporation and the Company following our expected acquisition of William Hill.
On December 1, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to sell the Belle of Baton Rouge (“Baton Rouge”) to CQ Holding Company, Inc. Pursuant to the terms of the GLPI Master Lease, Baton Rouge will be removed from the GLPI Master Lease, and the rent payments to GLPI will remain unchanged. GLPI will retain ownership of the real estate of Baton Rouge. The transaction is expected to close in mid-2021 and is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
On December 24, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement to sell Caesars Southern Indiana to the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians (“EBCI”) for $250 million, subject to a customary working capital adjustment. Our annual payments to VICI under the Regional Lease (as defined below) will decline by $33 million upon closing of the transaction. Additionally, effective as of the closing of the transaction, the Company and EBCI will enter into a long-term agreement for the continued use of the Caesars brand and Caesars Rewards loyalty program at Caesars Southern Indiana. The sale is subject to satisfaction of customary conditions, including receipt of required regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the third quarter of 2021.
Former Caesars’ properties, including Harrah’s Louisiana Downs, Caesars Southern Indiana, Horseshoe Hammond, Harrah’s Reno, Caesars UK group, including Emerald Resort & Casino, and Bally’s Atlantic City, have met held for sale criteria as of the date of the closing of the Merger. The sales of these properties have or are expected to close within one year from the date of the closing of the Merger and the properties are classified as discontinued operations.
Proposed Acquisition of William Hill
Since January 29, 2019, the Company has held 13 million ordinary shares of William Hill plc and a 20% ownership interest in William Hill US Holdco, Inc. (“William Hill US”), its United States subsidiary (together, “William Hill”). Additionally, the Company receives a profit share from the operations of sports betting and other gaming activities associated with the Company’s properties. See below for further detail.
On September 30, 2020, we announced that we had reached an agreement with William Hill plc on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition pursuant to which we would acquire the entire issued and to be issued share capital (other than shares owned by us or held in treasury) of William Hill plc, in an all-cash transaction of approximately £2.9 billion, or $3.7 billion. The transaction is conditioned on, among other things, the approval of William Hill plc shareholders, which was received on November 19, 2020, and receipt of required regulatory approvals. The Company announced the early termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (“HSR Act”) relating to the proposed combination with William Hill plc. A final UK court hearing is scheduled for the last week of March 2021 and we expect to close the acquisition shortly thereafter. See Note 1 for further details.
4

COVID-19 Public Health Emergency
In January 2020, an outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) was identified and has since spread throughout much of the world, including the United States. All of our casino properties were temporarily closed for the period from mid-March 2020 through mid-May 2020 due to orders issued by various government agencies and tribal bodies as part of certain precautionary measures intended to help slow the spread of the COVID-19 public health emergency. On May 15, 2020, we began reopening our properties and have resumed certain operations at all of our properties as of December 31, 2020, with the exception of additional temporary closures of Caesars Windsor, Harrah’s Philadelphia, and our properties in Illinois. Subsequently, Harrah’s Philadelphia and our properties in Illinois have reopened. The COVID-19 public health emergency has had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. We continued to pay our full-time employees through April 10, 2020, including tips and tokens. Effective April 11, 2020, we furloughed approximately 90% of our employees, implemented salary reductions and committed to continue to provide benefits to our employees during the duration of their respective furlough period. A portion of our workforce has returned to service as the properties have resumed with limited capacities and in compliance with operating restrictions imposed by governmental or tribal orders, directives, and guidelines. Due to the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 public health emergency on our results of operations, we obtained waivers on the financial covenants in Former Caesars credit facility agreement and the GLPI Master Lease. Furthermore, we obtained waivers in relation to annual capital expenditure requirements under the leases with VICI.
Business Operations
Our consolidated business is composed of five complementary businesses that reinforce, cross-promote, and build upon each other: casino, food and beverage, hotel, casino management services, retail and entertainment and other business operations, including online sports betting and iGaming.
Casino Operations
Our casino operations generate revenues from approximately 54,600 slot machines and 3,200 table games, including poker, as well as other games such as keno, and race and online sportsbooks, all of which comprised approximately 67% of our total net revenues in 2020. Slot revenues generate the majority of our casino revenues, particularly in our properties located outside of Las Vegas and Atlantic City.
Food and Beverage Operations
Our food and beverage operations generate revenues from our dining venues, bars, nightclubs, and lounges located throughout our casinos, as well as room service in our hotels, and represented approximately 10% of our total net revenues in 2020. Many of our properties include several dining options, ranging from upscale dining experiences to moderately-priced restaurants.
Hotel Operations
Hotel operations generate revenues from hotel stays at our properties in our approximately 47,700 guest rooms and suites worldwide and represented approximately 13% of our total net revenues in 2020. Our properties operate at various price and service points, allowing us to host a variety of casino guests, who are visiting our properties for gaming and other casino entertainment options, and non-casino guests who are visiting our properties for other purposes, such as vacation travel or conventions.
Management Services
We earn revenue from fees paid for the management of five domestic casinos. Managed properties represent Caesars-branded properties where we provide staffing and management services under management agreements.
Entertainment and Other Non-Gaming Operations
We provide a variety of retail and entertainment offerings at our properties. We operate various entertainment venues across the United States, including the Colosseum at Caesars Palace and Zappos Theater at Planet Hollywood. These award-winning entertainment venues are scheduled to host prominent headliners, such as Sting, Usher, Donny Osmond, Morrissey and the Scorpions.
The LINQ Promenade is an open-air dining, entertainment, and retail development located between The LINQ Hotel & Casino and Flamingo Las Vegas, which features The High Roller, a 550-foot observation wheel, and Fly LINQ, the first and only zipline on the Las Vegas Strip. The retail stores offer guests a wide range of options from high-end brands and accessories to souvenirs and decorative items.
5

CAESARS FORUM is a 550,000 square-foot conference center located at the center of the Las Vegas Strip. CAESARS FORUM features 300,000 square feet of flexible meeting space, the two largest pillarless ballrooms in the world, LEED silver-rating, and FORUM Plaza, the first 100,000 square-foot outdoor meeting and event space in Las Vegas. Though currently available for use, COVID-19 related restrictions have limited our ability to utilize the convention center and meeting space.
Online Sports Betting and iGaming
In September 2018, we entered into a 25-year agreement, which became effective in January 2019, with William Hill pursuant to which we (i) granted to William Hill the right to conduct betting activities, including operating sportsbooks, in retail channels and under our first skin and third skin for online channels with respect to our current and future properties located in the United States and the territories and possessions of the United States, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and (ii) agreed that William Hill will have the right to conduct real money online gaming activities utilizing our second skin available with respect to properties in such territories. We received a 20% ownership interest in William Hill US as well as 13 million ordinary shares of William Hill plc in exchange for the right to the use of certain skins (described above). The fair value of the William Hill US and William Hill plc shares received has been deferred and is recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the 25-year term of the agreement. The amortization of deferred revenues associated with our equity interests is included in other revenue within our Corporate and Other segment. Additionally, we receive a profit share from the operations of betting and other online gaming activities operated under our licenses. See Note 5.
As mentioned above, we have entered into an agreement with William Hill plc on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition and the consummation of the acquisition is conditioned on receipt of required regulatory approvals. Currently William Hill operates 37 sportsbooks at our properties in eight states and, following the acquisition, Caesars and William Hill will be live with sports wagering across 15 U.S. states plus the district of Columbia.
Additionally, the post-merger entity will operate regulated online real money gaming businesses in four states, Nevada, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Michigan, and continue to leverage the World Series of Poker (“WSOP”) brand, and license the WSOP trademarks for a variety of products and services. Players in New Jersey can play over 700 casino games including slots, table games, and video poker and we expect to similarly ramp the product offering in Pennsylvania and Michigan.
Extensive usage of digital platforms and growing bettor demand are driving the market for online sports betting platforms in the United States. We believe that the proposed acquisition of William Hill positions us to address this growing market.
In January 2021, we also made a strategic investment into a daily fantasy sports platform, as discussed below, which complements our strong mobile sports and gaming network.
Sports Brand Partnerships — We continue to solidify local and national partnerships that align our casinos, resorts and brands with sports fans. In 2019, we announced high-profile exclusive sports entertainment partnerships with the NFL, making Caesars the first-ever “Official Casino Sponsor” in the history of the league. This historic partnership combines the NFL’s legendary events with our properties to bring unique experiences to Caesars patrons. This includes exclusive rights to use NFL trademarks in the U.S. and U.K. to promote our properties, also enabling Caesars to host exclusive special events and experiences. For example, in April 2019, Caesars and the NFL hosted the NFL Alumni Las Vegas Draft Party with exclusive fan access to an autograph session with legendary NFL players, giveaways and an open bar at the LINQ Hotel & Casino. Caesars will continue to host brand activations at prominent, high-profile NFL events, including the NFL Draft, NFL playoffs, and the Super Bowl during this multi-year partnership.
Additionally, on August 24, 2020, the Company and ESPN opened a new ESPN-branded studio at the LINQ Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas where ESPN broadcasts sports betting-themed content and other programming. Under the agreement, Caesars has been designated as ESPN’s “Official Odds Provider,” ESPN produces and distributes certain content across ESPN’s media platforms that features Caesars branding, and Caesars purchases advertising across ESPN and its affiliated advertising platforms, among other terms. On September 10, 2020, the Company entered into a multi-year agreement with ESPN including link integrations from ESPN’s website and app to sportsbooks with our sports betting partner, William Hill.
Market Activities
Other Developments
Our proposed acquisition of William Hill represents a compelling opportunity to improve the offering and experience for the customer by providing access to Caesars’ brand and highly regarded loyalty program (which had approximately 60 million members at the end of 2020). The combined company will also be afforded the ability to access our extensive and pre-existing relationships with various sports teams and events including being the Official Casino Sponsor of the NFL. Further, the combined company’s market access across the U.S. would be increased and would benefit from a broad network of sportsbook
6

locations.
In addition to the proposed acquisition, in January 2021, we made a strategic investment in the daily fantasy sports platform with operations across seven professional sports in more than 35 states. The investment complements our strong mobile sports and gaming network by adding an innovative fantasy sports platform, allowing more options to play both online and in-person, and is expected to be tied to Caesars Rewards to permit players to earn credits redeemable for rewards and experiences, either online or at one of our casino resorts nationwide.
Trends
COVID-19 — The extent of the ongoing and future effects of the COVID-19 public health emergency on our business and the casino resort industry generally is uncertain, but we expect that it will continue to have a significant impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The extent and duration of the impact of COVID-19 will ultimately depend on future developments, including but not limited to, the duration and severity of the outbreak, business recovery trends, restrictions on operations imposed by governmental authorities, the potential for authorities reimposing stay at home orders or additional restrictions in response to continued developments with the COVID-19 public health emergency, the efficacy and availability of vaccines, our ability to adapt to evolving operating procedures, the impact on consumer demand and discretionary spending, the length of time it takes for demand to return and our ability to adjust our cost structures for the duration of the outbreak’s effect on our operations.
Online Betting and Gaming — Online betting and gaming is a rapidly developing sector of the e-commerce industry and we believe the digital segment of the global betting and gaming industry will continue to grow in popularity and consumer confidence. The market for online betting platforms is being driven by increased use of digital processes and global, growing bettor demand. We anticipate that the United States market will begin to have a strong and steady uptake in active wagers as state-by-state legislation in the United States continues to evolve in response to recent legislation resulting in new opportunities in the United States sports betting market. The extent and future effects of online betting and gaming on our casino properties is uncertain but we expect that our online betting and gaming offering will be complementary to our brick-and-mortar casino business.
Competition
The casino entertainment business is highly competitive. The industry is comprised of a diverse group of competitors that vary considerably in size and geographic diversity, quality of facilities and amenities available, marketing and growth strategies, and financial condition. In most regions, we compete directly with other casino facilities operating in the immediate and surrounding areas. In Las Vegas, our largest jurisdiction, competition is expected to increase in the coming years. For example, the Genting Group is developing a casino and hotel called Resorts World Las Vegas, which is expected to open in summer 2021. It is located on the northern end of the Las Vegas Strip. In response to changing trends, Las Vegas operators have been focused on expanding their non-gaming offerings, including upgrades to hotel rooms, new food and beverage offerings, and new entertainment offerings. There have also been proposals for other large scale non-gaming development projects in Las Vegas by various other developers. Our Las Vegas Strip hotels and casinos also compete, in part, with each other.
In recent years, many casino operators, including us, have been reinvesting in existing facilities, developing or rebranding new casinos or complementary facilities, and acquiring established facilities. These reinvestment and expansion efforts combined with aggressive marketing strategies by us and many of our competitors have resulted in increased competition in many regions. As companies have completed new expansion projects, supply has grown at a faster pace than demand in some areas. The expansion of properties and entertainment venues into new jurisdictions also presents competitive issues. Atlantic City, in particular, has experienced significant competitive pressure primarily due to the addition of gaming and room capacity associated with the expansion of gaming in Maryland, New York, and Pennsylvania, as well as the opening of new properties. This has resulted in several casino closings in recent years. Other examples of expected increases in competition in the markets include the recent legalization of casinos at licensed horse race tracks in Nebraska in November 2020 and the opening of Live! Casino and Hotel Philadelphia in February 2021.
Our properties also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands. While the competitive impact on operations in Las Vegas from the continued growth of Native American gaming establishments in California remains uncertain, the proliferation of gaming in California and other areas located in the same regions as our properties could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In some instances, particularly in the case of Native American casinos, our competitors pay lower taxes or no taxes. In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific areas, including metropolitan areas from which we traditionally attract customers. These factors create additional challenges for us in competing for customers and accessing cash flow or financing to fund improvements for our casino and entertainment products that enable us to remain competitive.
7

We also compete with other non-gaming resorts and vacation areas, various other entertainment businesses, and other forms of gaming, such as state lotteries, on-track and off-track wagering, video lottery terminals, and card parlors. Our non-gaming offerings also compete with other retail facilities, amusement attractions, food and beverage offerings, and entertainment venues. Internet gaming and sports betting also create additional competition for our brick-and-mortar operations.
Resources Material to Business
Rewards Programs
We believe Caesars Rewards, which we acquired in 2020 as a result of the Merger, enables us to compete more effectively and capture a larger share of our customers’ entertainment spending when they travel among regions versus that of a standalone property, which is core to our cross-market strategy. Legacy ERI loyalty club members are able to link their account to Caesars Rewards.
Members who have joined Caesars Rewards can earn Reward Credits for qualifying gaming activity and qualifying hotel, dining and retail spending at all Caesars-affiliated properties in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Dubai. Members can also earn additional Reward Credits when they use their Caesars Rewards VISA credit card or make a purchase through a Caesars Rewards partner. Members can redeem their earned Reward Credits with Caesars for hotel amenities, casino free play and other items such as merchandise, gift cards, and travel.
Caesars Rewards is structured in tiers (designated as Gold, Platinum, Diamond or Seven Stars), each with increasing member benefits and privileges. Members are provided promotional offers based on their Tier Level, their engagement with Caesars-affiliated properties, aspects of their casino gaming play, and their preferred spending choices outside of gaming. Member information is also used in connection with various marketing promotions, including campaigns involving direct mail, email, our websites, mobile devices, social media, and interactive slot machines.
Intellectual Property and Resources
We use a variety of trade names, service marks, trademarks, patents and copyrights in our operations and believe that we have all the licenses necessary to conduct our continuing operations. The development of intellectual property is part of our overall business strategy. We regard our intellectual property to be an important element of our success. We have registered several service marks, trademarks, patents and copyrights with the United States Patent and Trademark Office or otherwise acquired the licenses to use those which are material to conduct our business. We also own patents relating to unique casino games. While our business as a whole is not substantially dependent on any one patent, trademark, copyright, we seek to establish and maintain our proprietary rights in our business operations and technology through the use of patents, trademarks, copyrights, and trade secret laws. We file applications for and obtain patents, trademarks, and copyrights in the United States and foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate, including United States and foreign patent applications covering certain proprietary technology of Caesars Enterprise Services, LLC (“CES”). We also seek to maintain our trade secrets and confidential information by nondisclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality agreements. CES’ United States patents have varying expiration dates.
We have not applied for the registration of all of our trademarks, copyrights, proprietary technology, or other intellectual property rights, as the case may be, and may not be successful in obtaining all intellectual property rights for which we have applied. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, parties may infringe upon our intellectual property and use information that we regard as proprietary, and our rights may be invalidated or unenforceable. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights or intellectual property to as great of an extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property.
We own or have the right to use proprietary rights to a number of trademarks that we consider, along with the associated name recognition, to be valuable to our business, including Eldorado, Silver Legacy, Isle, Lady Luck, Tropicana, Circus Circus, Caesars, Flamingo, Harrah’s, Horseshoe, Paris, Caesars Rewards, WSOP, and licenses for the Planet Hollywood trademark used in connection with the Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas and for the Bally’s trademark used in connection with Bally’s Las Vegas in Las Vegas.
8

Industry Overview
See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” See also Exhibit 99.1, “Gaming Overview,” to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Seasonality
We believe that business at our regional properties outside of Las Vegas is subject to seasonality, including seasonality based on the weather in the markets in which they operate and the travel habits of visitors. Business in our properties can also fluctuate due to specific holidays or other significant events, such as Easter (particularly when the holiday falls in a different quarter than the prior year), the WSOP tournament (with respect to our Las Vegas properties), city-wide conventions, a large sporting event or a concert, or visits by our premium players. We also believe that any seasonality, holiday, or other significant event may affect our various properties or regions differently.
Gaming Licenses and Governmental Regulations
The gaming and racing industries are highly regulated, and we must maintain our licenses and pay gaming taxes to continue our operations. We are subject to extensive regulation under laws, rules and supervisory procedures primarily in the jurisdictions where our facilities are located or docked. These laws, rules and regulations generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and characters of the owners, managers, and persons with financial interests in the gaming operations. If additional gaming regulations are adopted in a jurisdiction in which we operate, such regulations could impose restrictions or costs that could have a significant adverse effect on us. From time to time, various proposals have been introduced in legislatures of jurisdictions in which we have operations that, if enacted, could adversely affect the tax, regulatory, operational or other aspects of the gaming industry and us. We do not know whether or when such legislation will be enacted. Gaming companies are currently subject to significant state and local taxes and fees in addition to normal federal and state corporate income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. Any material increase in these taxes or fees could adversely affect us.
Some jurisdictions, including those in which we are licensed, empower their regulators to investigate participation by licensees in gaming outside their jurisdiction and require access to periodic reports respecting those gaming activities. Violations of laws in one jurisdiction could result in disciplinary action in other jurisdictions.
Under provisions of gaming laws in jurisdictions in which we have operations, and under our organizational documents, certain of our securities are subject to restriction on ownership which may be imposed by specified governmental authorities. The restrictions may require a holder of our securities to dispose of the securities or, if the holder refuses, or is unable to dispose of the securities, we may be required to repurchase the securities.
A more detailed description of the regulations to which we are subject is contained in Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Internal Revenue Service Regulations
The Internal Revenue Service requires operators of casinos located in the United States to file information returns for U.S. citizens, including names and addresses of winners, for keno, bingo and slot machine winnings in excess of stipulated amounts. The Internal Revenue Service also requires operators to withhold taxes on some keno, bingo and slot machine winnings of nonresident aliens. We are unable to predict the extent to which these requirements, if extended, might impede or otherwise adversely affect operations of, and/or income from, other games.
Regulations adopted by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Treasury Department (“FINCEN”) and the Nevada Gaming Authorities require the reporting of currency transactions in excess of $10,000 occurring within a gaming day, including identification of the patron by name and social security number. This reporting obligation began in May 1985 and may have resulted in the loss of gaming revenues to jurisdictions outside the United States which are exempt from the ambit of these regulations. In addition to currency transaction reporting requirements, suspicious financial activity is also required to be reported to FINCEN.
Other Laws and Regulations
Our businesses are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations in addition to gaming regulations. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, restrictions and conditions concerning alcoholic beverages, food service, smoking, environmental matters, employees and employment practices, currency transactions, taxation, zoning and building codes, and marketing and advertising. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results.
9

The sale of alcoholic beverages is subject to licensing, control and regulation by applicable local regulatory agencies. All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any license, and any disciplinary action could, and revocation would, have a material adverse effect upon our operations.
We also deal with significant amounts of cash in our operations and are subject to various reporting and anti-money laundering regulations. Such laws and regulations could change or could be interpreted differently in the future, or new laws and regulations could be enacted. Material changes, new laws or regulations, or material differences in interpretations by courts or governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. See Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for additional discussion.
Taxation
Gaming companies are typically subject to significant taxes and fees in addition to normal federal, state and local income taxes, and such taxes and fees are subject to increase at any time. We pay substantial taxes and fees with respect to our operations. From time to time, federal, state, local and provincial legislators and officials have proposed changes in tax laws, or in the administration of such laws, affecting the gaming industry. It is not possible to determine with certainty the likelihood of changes in tax laws or in the administration of such laws.
Environmental Matters
We are subject to various federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to the use, storage, discharge, emission and disposal of hazardous materials and solid, animal and hazardous wastes and exposure to hazardous materials. Such laws and regulations can impose liability on potentially responsible parties, including the owners or operators of real property, to clean up, or contribute to the cost of cleaning up, sites at which hazardous wastes or materials were disposed of or released. In addition to investigation and remediation liabilities that could arise under such laws and regulations, we could also face personal injury, property damage, fines or other claims by third parties concerning environmental compliance or contamination or exposure to hazardous materials and could be subject to significant fines or penalties for any violations. We have from time to time been responsible for investigating and remediating, or contributing to remediation costs related to, contamination located at or near certain of our facilities, including contamination related to underground storage tanks and groundwater contamination arising from prior uses of land on which certain of our facilities are located. In addition, we have been, and may in the future be, required to manage, abate, remove or contain manure and wastewater generated by concentrated animal feeding operations due to our racetrack operations, mold, lead, asbestos-containing materials or other hazardous conditions found in or on our properties. Although we have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, costs related to the investigation, identification and remediation of hazardous materials or conditions known or discovered to exist at our properties, those costs have not had, and are not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.
Reporting and Record-Keeping Requirements
We are required periodically to submit detailed financial and operating reports and furnish any other information about us and our subsidiaries that gaming authorities may require. We are required to maintain a current stock ledger that may be examined by gaming authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to gaming authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. Gaming authorities may, and in certain jurisdictions do, require certificates for our securities to bear a legend indicating that the securities are subject to specified gaming laws.
Human Capital Management
We aim to provide a workplace that is engaging, empowering, inclusive and respectful for all employees (our “Team Members”), embracing a culture of openness, passion for service and recognition. Our ongoing investment in professional training and development, safety, health and wellbeing and Team Member recognition linked to guest satisfaction are all important drivers of our success in delivering outstanding financial results and creating value for our communities. We have approximately 54,000 employees at our domestic properties throughout our organization.
10

Labor Relations
Approximately 21,000 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with certain of our subsidiaries. The majority of these employees in various job positions are covered by the following agreements:
																				
Employee Group		Approximate Number of Active Employees Represented		Union		Date on which Collective Bargaining Agreement Becomes Amendable
Las Vegas Culinary Employees		12,500		Culinary Workers Union, Local 226		May 31, 2023
Atlantic City Food & Beverage and Hotel Employees		3,000		UNITE HERE, Local 54		May 31, 2022
Las Vegas Bartenders		1,200		Bartenders Union, Local 165		May 31, 2023
Las Vegas Dealers		2,100		United Auto Workers		September 30, 2023
Team Member Engagement, Compensation, Benefits, Development, Safety and Wellbeing
We strive to inspire our Team Members through our mission, vision and values, and our Code of Commitment (described below). To evaluate our Team Member experience and our retention efforts, we monitor a number of employee measures, such as turnover rates and Team Member satisfaction. We are revising our Team Member experience surveys to help us further understand the drivers of engagement and areas where we can improve.
Our compensation and benefits programs are designed to attract, retain and motivate our Team Members. In addition to competitive salaries and wages, we provide a variety of short-term, long-term and incentive-based compensation programs to reward performance relative to key metrics relevant to our business. We offer comprehensive benefit options including, but not limited to, retirement savings plans, health insurance coverage (including medical, mental health, dental, vision and pharmacy), parental leave and company-paid life insurance.
We place utmost importance on creating a safe workplace for our Team Members, embedding procedures so that all our Team Members have the awareness, knowledge and tools to make safe working a habit.
We also have maintained a wellness program to help our Team Members improve their health and wellbeing. This program has demonstrated improved health metrics for participating employees and their covered family members helping reduce the cost of healthcare for Team Members and for the Company. We are implementing enhancements and a relaunch in conjunction with the consolidation of our group health plans.
In 2020, we sponsored Caesars Cares, a 501(c)(3) charity that provides financial assistance to Team Members in need. Approximately 1,200 grants totaling approximately $1 million were provided to Team Members in 2020, including those impacted by hurricanes in several of the communities in which we operate and the COVID-19 public health emergency.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
We embrace diversity and aim to create an inclusive working environment that celebrates all our Team Members as individuals. Our diversity, equity and inclusion (“DEI”) framework identifies five pillars of activity: advocacy, Team Members, suppliers, communities and guests for a holistic approach to embedding DEI in everything we do. We publish our DEI data in our annual CSR report (described below). In 2020, 44% of leadership roles in the Company were held by women and 40% were held by people of color. In 2021, we set our new goals around gender and racial diversity. By 2025, 50% of leadership roles will be held by women. Furthermore, by 2025, 50% of leadership roles will be held by people of color.
COVID-19 Public Health Emergency
In 2020, the COVID-19 public health emergency brought unparalleled threats to the health and safety of our Team Members, guests, partners and communities and created unprecedented challenges. Our foremost priority was to protect the health and safety of all those connected to our business while operating in compliance with all applicable guidance, directives and protocols. We have made every effort to alleviate hardship by providing continued pay for up to six weeks for furloughed Team Members, maintaining payment of health insurance premiums for furloughed Team Members, maintaining our employee assistance programs and sponsoring Caesars Cares (see above). In our communities, we donated perishable goods amounting to thousands of meals following the closure of dining facilities at our properties. We also donated funds, and our Team Members volunteered, to help organizations across the United States to support community needs.
11

Corporate Social Responsibility
Caesars’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) and senior executives view Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) as an integral element in the way we do business, in the belief that being a good corporate citizen helps protect the company against risk, contributes to improved performance and helps foster positive relationships with all those with whom we connect. The Board and our executive management are committed to being an industry leader in CSR (which includes diversity, equity and inclusion, social impact, and environmental sustainability). In 2020, the Board and our leadership continued to engage with our CEO-level external CSR Advisory Board comprised of experts representing DEI, business strategy, academia and investors, and used their guidance to confirm our CSR priorities. These priorities are reflected in our eleventh annual CSR report, published in 2020 in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative Standards.
CSR Committee of the Board
Following the Merger in July 2020, Caesars’ Board formed a CSR committee that defines the duties and responsibilities of the Board in supporting delivery of our corporate purpose and CSR strategy as well as CSR-related aspects of corporate governance such as Board diversity.
Code of Commitment
Caesars is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen and environmental steward through our CSR strategy, PEOPLE PLANET PLAY. This is reflected in our Code of Commitment which is our public pledge to our guests, Team Members, communities, business partners and all those we reach that we will honor the trust they have placed in us through ethical conduct and integrity. We commit to:
•PEOPLE: Supporting the wellbeing of our Team Members, guests and local communities.
•PLANET: Taking care of the world we all call home.
•PLAY: Creating memorable experiences for our guests and leading responsible gaming practices in the industry.
PEOPLE PLANET PLAY Strategy
Our PEOPLE PLANET PLAY strategy defines how we meet the obligations of our Code of Commitment and is aligned with global priorities articulated by the United Nations as the Sustainable Development Goals. PEOPLE PLANET PLAY establishes multi-year targets in key areas of impact, including science-based greenhouse gas emissions-reduction, formally approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative (“SBTi”), aligning with global best practices on climate change action. We are reviewing our PEOPLE PLANET PLAY targets and expect to publish our targets after our first year as a combined entity.
Responsible Gaming
For more than thirty years, Caesars has maintained its Responsible Gaming (“RG”) program. We train tens of thousands of Team Members each year and a cadre of RG Ambassadors throughout our properties to identify guests in need of assistance and provide support. In recent years, Caesars has contributed to the National Center for Responsible Gaming, the National Council on Problem Gaming and other state programs to help advance responsible practices in the gaming industry.
Environmental Stewardship
We take a proactive approach to environmental sustainability through our CodeGreen strategy established by Former Caesars in 2007, consistently improving our performance across energy and greenhouse gas emissions efficiencies, reduction of water consumption and increasing waste diversion from landfills. Caesars recognizes the impact climate change can play both on our business and the guests we serve. Identifying, assessing, and managing the risks and opportunities therefore plays a vital role in our long-term strategic thinking on climate and water, and how we approach our CSR goals. Between 2011 and 2019, Former Caesars reduced its absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions by 19.7%. In 2019, Former Caesars further committed to mitigating its impact on climate change by updating our previously approved science based targets to be in line with well below 2 degrees Celsius per SBTi: (i) reducing absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 35% by 2025, and 100% by 2050 from a 2011 base-year and (ii) having 60% of suppliers by spend institute science-based GHG reduction targets for their operations by 2023. In 2021, we expect to establish a new baseline in order to reaffirm our targets and goals as a combined company. Caesars is pursuing renewable energy sources and low-carbon options, including on site solar developments. Our long-term goals include evaluating energy supply for each of our properties in pursuit of our SBTs.
We voluntarily participate in the CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), an international nonprofit that drives sustainable economies. In 2020, Caesars made the A List for climate and water security and earned a spot on the Supplier Engagement Leaderboard from CDP. Just 5% of companies assessed by CDP make A List and only 7% make the Supplier Engagement Leaderboard.
12

We are committed to creating and investing in policies and procedures towards CSR efforts. In order to engage guests in our CSR efforts, we have branded our hotel rooms with our PEOPLE PLANET PLAY messaging, inviting guests to play a role by using water, air-conditioning and towels with the environment in mind. We promote sustainable sourcing of key food ingredients for our menus from sustainably managed farms and fisheries.
Community Investment
Caesars contributes extensively to our local communities to help them develop and prosper, through funding community projects, employee volunteering and cash donations from the Caesars Foundation, a private foundation funded from our operating income. In 2020, the Caesars Foundation contributed $1.3 million to communities across the United States with an emphasis on COVID-19 crisis relief at the local level through food and shelter insecurity, wellness and workforce development programs. The Foundation also continued to support significant national relationships that support diversity equity and inclusion.
Many of our community partners are long-term collaborations. For example, our many years of partnership with Meals on Wheels America (“MOWA”) to combat the issues of senior hunger and isolation cumulated in a national virtual summit during Seniors Appreciation Month in 2020 which addressed exponential needs on the issues, particularly given the impact of the COVID-19 public health emergency.
From 2018 through 2020, we hosted a national Economic Equity Tour through live webinars and on-line resources for thousands of women of color owned small businesses, and diverse non-profits. Expert-led webinars provided resources in the areas of financial empowerment, nonprofit organization development, and entrepreneurship.
Available Information
We are required to file annual, quarterly and other current reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Because we submit filings to the SEC electronically, access to this information is available at the SEC’s website (www.sec.gov). This site contains reports and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to these reports, available free of charge on our corporate website (www.caesars.com/corporate) as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee are available on our website. We will provide reasonable quantities of electronic or paper copies of filings free of charge upon request. In addition, we will provide a copy of the above referenced charters to stockholders upon request.
References in this document to our website address do not incorporate by reference the information contained on the website into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
