As a global airline based in the U.S., we connect customers across our expansive global network. In 2019, we served approximately 200 million customers and were the world’s largest airline by total revenues and the most profitable with five consecutive years of $5 billion or more in pre-tax income from 2015 through 2019. In 2020, we made significant adjustments to our network and operations as a result of the unprecedented and widespread impact of COVID-19 and the related travel restrictions and social distancing measures that significantly reduced demand for air travel.

After initially impacting our service to China beginning in January 2020, the spread of COVID-19 and the resulting global pandemic have significantly affected our entire network. Beginning in March 2020, large public events were cancelled, governmental authorities began imposing restrictions on non-essential activities, businesses suspended travel and popular leisure destinations temporarily closed to visitors. In the United States, which is our primary market, the federal government has discouraged travel and encouraged social distancing efforts and limits on gathering size. Numerous travel advisories and restrictions have been implemented, some of which remain in place, between the United States and specific countries. Many foreign governments have also placed restrictions or quarantines on citizens of other countries, including citizens of the U.S., flying into their countries. For instance, the U.S. and numerous other countries are now requiring airline passengers to provide negative COVID-19 test results prior to travel into their countries. State and local governments have also issued travel restrictions, quarantines and advisories and health-related curfews or “shelter in place” orders which dissuade or restrict air travel. As a result, demand for travel declined at a rapid pace in the March 2020 quarter and has remained depressed, which has had an unprecedented and materially adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial position. In 2020, we served approximately 70 million customers, many of them prior to the pandemic’s onset. More information about the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business can be found in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

We remain committed to industry-leading safety and reliability and are consistently among the industry’s best performers. Our people are our strongest competitive advantage. Our employees provide world-class travel experiences for our customers and give back to the communities where they live, work and serve. Following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have intensified our focus on ensuring the safety and health of our customers, including through the creation of our Global Cleanliness organization and implementation of the Delta Care Standard to ensure a consistently safe and sanitized experience across our facilities and aircraft. We believe these actions have been an important driver behind the significant increases in our domestic net promoter scores during 2020. Other key competitive advantages include our operational reliability, our global network and customer loyalty.

In recent years, we have diversified revenue streams beyond the basic sale of an airline ticket in an effort to reduce the impact of cyclicality and other significant reductions in air travel demand on our results. Our partnership with American Express continued to provide a co-brand revenue stream tied to broader consumer spending during 2020. Our recent focus on premium products and customer segmentation enhanced our revenue growth prior to the pandemic and reduced reliance on the most price sensitive customer segment, a differentiator that we believe has benefited us during the pandemic. We also maintain complementary portfolio businesses, such as our cargo business and our Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (“MRO”) operation, where we believe we remain well positioned for organic growth through contractual agreements with jet engine manufacturers.

Our internet address is www.delta.com. Information contained on our website is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this Form 10-K.

The Delta Brand

In 2020, we continued to have the world’s most valuable airline brand. Over the last decade, we significantly improved the quality and reliability of our operations, and our customer satisfaction scores increased significantly as a result. With operational excellence, best-in-class service and a commitment to ensuring the health and safety of our customers, we have continued to earn our customers' trust and preference by delivering the "Delta Difference." We believe our continued investment in customer service and experience, operations, product, airports and technology has shaped customer perception of our brand and driven increased customer loyalty.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      2
Item 1. Business
Our Global Network and Fleet

In 2019, we offered more than 5,000 daily departures and as many as 15,000 affiliated departures including the premier SkyTeam alliance, of which Delta is a founding member. We generated over 70% of our 2019 passenger revenue from our domestic network, centered around high-margin core hubs in Atlanta, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Detroit and Salt Lake City. These core hub positions complement traditionally strong coastal hub positions in Boston, Los Angeles, New York-LaGuardia, New York-JFK and Seattle. We have agreements with domestic regional carriers that operate as Delta Connection® to feed traffic to our domestic hubs. As a result of decreased demand for air travel caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we significantly reduced our system-wide flight operations, including operations at all of the hubs listed above, beginning in March 2020. We expect to continue to evaluate and adjust our operations to address evolving conditions.

Although our international operations have been substantially curtailed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to serve Transatlantic, Transpacific and Latin America markets directly on Delta and through joint ventures with global airline partners. Internationally, we have significant hubs and market presence in Amsterdam, London-Heathrow, Mexico City, Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Seoul-Incheon.

Through innovative alliances with Aeroméxico, Air France-KLM, China Eastern, Korean Air and Virgin Atlantic, and an alliance pending regulatory approval with LATAM Airlines, we seek to bring more choice to customers worldwide. Our strategic relationships with these international airlines are an important part of our business as they improve our access to markets around the world and enable us to provide customers a more seamless global travel experience across our alliance network. In 2019, we and our alliance partners collectively served over 140 countries and more than 900 destinations around the world. The most significant of these arrangements are commercial joint ventures that include joint sales and marketing coordination, co-location of airport facilities and other commercial cooperation arrangements. In some cases, we have reinforced strategic alliances through equity investments where we have opportunity to create deep relationships and maximize commercial cooperation. For additional information about the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on our investments in these airlines, see "Commercial Arrangements with Other Airlines" below and Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

At December 31, 2020, our network included a fleet of more than 1,100 aircraft that are varied in size and capabilities, giving us flexibility to adjust aircraft to the network. Prior to the pandemic, we began refreshing our fleet, acquiring new, more fuel efficient aircraft with increased premium seating, to replace older aircraft and had begun to reduce our fleet complexity with fewer fleet types. We accelerated this fleet simplification strategy by retiring 227 aircraft in 2020, with plans to retire an additional 128 aircraft by 2025.

Expanded Products and Services

Over the last decade we have fundamentally transformed our business by investing in our people, our product and our reliability to alter the commodity-like nature of air travel. We have a retail oriented, merchandised approach to distribution with well-defined and differentiated products for our customers. Through improved product segmentation, we offer distinct travel experiences with clear value propositions that enable customer choice and include exceptional service onboard our aircraft. In both 2020 and 2019, approximately one-third of our passenger revenue was from premium products, which include Delta One®, Delta Premium Select, First Class and Delta Comfort+®. Main Cabin products, including Basic Economy, represented approximately half of our passenger revenue in 2020 and 2019. During 2020, we increased the flexibility with respect to these products by extending expiration on certain tickets and travel credits, eliminating change fees for domestic tickets and international tickets originating from North America, with the exception of Basic Economy tickets, and waiving change fees for all tickets (including Basic Economy) purchased before March 30, 2021. We derive the remainder of our passenger revenue from loyalty travel awards and travel-related services.

Our tickets are sold through various distribution channels, with 59% of tickets sold through direct channels in 2020. These include digital channels, such as delta.com and the Fly Delta app, and our reservations specialists where we deliver more direct, personalized interactions with our customers at reduced distribution costs. Indirect distribution channels include online travel agencies and traditional "brick and mortar" agencies. We make fare and product information widely available across those channels in an effort to ensure customers receive the best information and service options.

We continue to implement merchandising initiatives across our distribution channels to allow customers to better understand our product offerings, make it easier to buy the products they desire and increase customer satisfaction. This merchandising effort is most effective in Delta's digital channels where customers can compare all product options in a single, easy to understand display.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      3
Item 1. Business
Innovative Technology to Improve Service and Efficiency

Our objective is to make technology a strategic differentiator. We continue to invest in technological improvements that support our operations and provide tools for our employees. These investments include improvements to infrastructure and technology architecture to unify and improve access to data sources and continuing innovations to customer facing applications. We believe this digital transformation is enhancing interactions with our customers and allows our people to deliver more personalized service, further enhancing the customer experience and strengthening our brand.

Through the development of innovative new technologies, we can better serve customers and give our employees the best tools. For our customers, we are making investments in the Fly Delta app, in the airport and onboard our aircraft. We are evolving the Fly Delta app into a digital travel concierge for our customers to offer convenient services on the day of travel and deliver thoughtful notifications to make their travel journeys more seamless. In the airport, we are investing to create a smoother, less stressful and increasingly contactless travel experience. Onboard the aircraft, we continue to invest in in-flight entertainment with free messaging, and approximately 95% of our mainline aircraft were equipped with seat-back screens as of December 31, 2020. For our employees, we are investing in applications that allow our people to have more meaningful interactions with our customers, as well as tools to make our employees safer and better able to do their jobs.

Customer Loyalty Program

The SkyMiles program is designed to attract lifetime members and grow customer loyalty by offering incentives to increase travel with us. Our award-winning program offers a wide variety of benefits including award travel and access to complimentary elite benefits and services when traveling with us and our partners. As our brand has strengthened, the SkyMiles program has seen an acceleration in membership growth. We believe there is opportunity to continue this trend as we seek to elevate our customer engagement through opportunities to earn and redeem mileage credits (“miles”) as well as co-brand card offerings coupled with a strong customer experience. The SkyMiles program has a large, growing and premium membership base. This membership base has historically resulted in higher premium revenues and more resilient cash flows for us. SkyMiles has been widely recognized as a top loyalty program by external reviewers such as U.S. News and World Report and The Points Guy.

The SkyMiles program provides its members the ability to earn miles when traveling on Delta, Delta Connection and our partner airlines. Miles may also be earned by using certain services offered by program partners, such as credit card companies, hotels, car rental agencies and ridesharing companies. To facilitate transactions with participating companies, we sell miles to non-airline businesses, customers and other airlines. In addition, individuals may purchase miles. They can use these miles for award redemptions such as flights and upgrades on Delta, our regional carriers and other participating airlines as well as donations with specific charities and more. In 2020 and 2019, nearly 10% of revenue miles flown on Delta were from award travel, as program members redeemed miles in the loyalty program for approximately 14 million and 20 million award tickets, respectively.

Our most significant and valuable contract to sell miles relates to our co-brand credit card relationship with American Express. In 2019, we amended our primary co-brand agreement and other related agreements with American Express. The new agreements increase the total benefit we receive and extend the duration of the relationship to 2029.

Commercial Arrangements with Other Airlines

We have marketing alliances with other airlines to enhance our access to domestic and international markets.

Joint Venture Agreements. We have implemented three separate joint venture arrangements with foreign carriers, each of which has been granted antitrust immunity from the U.S. Department of Transportation ("DOT"). We have sought to reinforce a number of the agreements through equity investments in those carriers. As described in Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, although we continue to hold the equity investments referenced below, we reduced the carrying value of our investments in Virgin Atlantic, Grupo Aeroméxico and LATAM to zero during 2020.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      4
Item 1. Business
Each of our joint venture arrangements provides for joint commercial cooperation with the relevant partner within the geographic scope of the arrangement, including the sharing of revenues and/or profits and losses generated by the parties on the joint venture routes, as well as joint marketing and sales, coordinated pricing and revenue management, network and schedule planning and other coordinated activities with respect to the parties' operations on joint venture routes. Our implemented commercial joint ventures consist of the following:

•A combined joint venture with Air France, KLM and Virgin Atlantic with respect to transatlantic traffic flows. In addition to the joint venture, we own a non-controlling 49% equity stake in Virgin Atlantic Limited, the parent company of Virgin Atlantic Airways and a non-controlling 9% ownership stake in the parent company of Air France and KLM.

•A joint venture with Aeroméxico with respect to trans-border traffic flows between the U.S. and Mexico, which we believe Aeroméxico intends to request the court’s approval to assume as part of its bankruptcy proceedings. In addition to the joint venture, we own a non-controlling 51% equity stake in Grupo Aeroméxico, S.A.B. de C.V., the parent company of Aeroméxico. We and Aeroméxico have also established a joint venture relating to an airframe MRO operation located in Queretaro, Mexico.

•A joint venture with Korean Air with respect to traffic flows between the United States and certain countries in Asia. In addition to the joint venture, we own an approximately 13% equity stake in Hanjin-KAL, the largest shareholder of Korean Air.

During 2020, our joint venture with Virgin Australia and its affiliated carriers was repudiated as part of the voluntary administration proceeding relating to the recapitalization of Virgin Australia’s business. We remain optimistic about restarting our joint venture relationship with Virgin Australia once demand recovers and it resumes long-haul international flights.

In 2019, we entered into a framework agreement with LATAM Airlines Group S.A. (“LATAM”) to form a strategic alliance. Pursuant to that agreement, we acquired a non-controlling 20% equity stake in LATAM in January 2020 for $1.9 billion and agreed to make transition payments to LATAM totaling $350 million. In May 2020, we signed a trans-American joint venture agreement with LATAM that, subject to regulatory approvals, will combine our highly complementary route networks between North and South America, with the goal of providing customers a seamless travel experience and industry-leading connectivity. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, LATAM initiated a voluntary proceeding to reorganize under U.S. bankruptcy laws in which it has assumed the joint venture agreement. As part of our planned strategic alliance with LATAM, we also assumed 10 of LATAM's A350 purchase commitments with Airbus S.A.S. for deliveries through 2025. We initially agreed to acquire four A350 aircraft from LATAM but terminated this agreement during 2020.

We previously entered into a joint venture agreement with WestJet with respect to trans-border traffic flows between the U.S. and Canada for which we sought antitrust immunity from DOT, among other regulatory approvals. In 2020, we withdrew the application for antitrust immunity and, as a result, we and WestJet are not currently implementing the proposed joint venture. We continue to explore avenues to deepen our relationship with WestJet and generate value for our customers.

Enhanced Commercial Agreements with China Eastern. We own a 3% equity interest in China Eastern, with whom we have a strategic joint marketing and commercial cooperation arrangement covering traffic flows between China and the U.S., which includes reciprocal codesharing, loyalty program participation, airport lounge access and joint sales cooperation.

SkyTeam. In addition to our marketing alliance agreements with individual foreign airlines, we are a member of the SkyTeam global airline alliance. The other members of SkyTeam are Aeroflot, Aerolíneas Argentinas, Aeroméxico, Air Europa, Air France, Alitalia, China Airlines, China Eastern, Czech Airlines, Garuda Indonesia, Kenya Airways, KLM, Korean Air, Middle East Airlines, Saudia, TAROM, Vietnam Airlines and Xiamen Airlines. Through alliance arrangements with other SkyTeam carriers, we are able to link our network with the route networks of the other member airlines, providing opportunities to increase connecting traffic while offering enhanced customer service through reciprocal codesharing and loyalty program participation, airport lounge access and cargo operations.

Regional Carriers

We have air service agreements with domestic regional air carriers that feed traffic to our route system by serving passengers primarily in small and medium-sized cities in the domestic market. These arrangements enable us to better match capacity with demand in these markets.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      5
Item 1. Business
Through our regional carrier program, Delta Connection®, we have contractual arrangements with regional carriers to operate aircraft using our "DL" designator code. We currently have contractual arrangements with:

•Endeavor Air, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ours.
•Republic Airline, Inc. ("Republic").
•SkyWest Airlines, Inc. ("SkyWest Airlines").

Our contractual agreements with regional carriers primarily are capacity purchase arrangements, under which we control the scheduling, pricing, reservations, ticketing and seat inventories for the regional carriers' flights operating under our "DL" designator code. We are entitled to all ticket, cargo, mail, in-flight and ancillary revenues associated with the flights under these capacity purchase arrangements. We pay those airlines an amount, as defined in the applicable agreement, which is based on a determination of their cost of operating those flights and other factors intended to approximate market rates for those services. These capacity purchase agreements are long-term agreements, usually with initial terms of at least ten years, which grant us the option to extend the initial term. Certain of these agreements provide us the right to terminate the entire agreement, or in some cases remove some of the aircraft from the scope of the agreement, for convenience at certain future dates.

SkyWest Airlines operates some flights for us under a revenue proration agreement. This proration agreement establishes a fixed dollar or percentage division of revenues for tickets sold to passengers traveling on connecting flight itineraries.

Global Impact

As we connect people with communities, experiences and each other, we are committed to doing our part to build a better world. Giving back to the communities where we live, work and serve is part of our culture, and we have maintained this commitment through the COVID-19 pandemic, with Delta people shifting to virtual platforms and finding innovative, new ways to give back. For example, during 2020, Delta supported healthcare workers by manufacturing 70,000 face shields to extend the life of N95 mask respirators, donated 800,000 pounds of snacks and drinks to hospitals in 20 countries, and provided more than 350 free flights for medical professionals traveling to assist states that were heavily impacted by the pandemic.

As a purpose-driven and values-led company, we are committed to reducing our environmental impact. The chief focus of reducing our impact on the environment is jet fuel, which is the primary contributor to our carbon footprint. In February 2020, we announced plans to invest $1 billion in the next 10 years in our effort to achieve carbon neutrality, a commitment we have reiterated even with the unprecedented challenges presented for the airline industry by the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to focus on increasing fuel efficiency as we replace older aircraft with more fuel-efficient jets and improve the efficiency of our existing aircraft through operational efforts.

Other Businesses

Cargo

Through our global network, our cargo operations are able to connect the world's major freight gateways. We have historically generated cargo revenues in domestic and international markets through the use of cargo space on regularly scheduled passenger aircraft. In 2020, following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, reduced industry capacity drove a significant increase in our cargo yield, and we also generated cargo revenue through the operation of cargo-only charter flights (i.e., using aircraft in our fleet not then being utilized for passenger travel). We are a member of SkyTeam Cargo, an international airline cargo alliance with 10 other airlines that offer a network spanning six continents, and aim to provide solutions across the globe by connecting our network with those of our partners.

Related Businesses

We have various other businesses arising from our airline operations, including the following:

•In addition to providing maintenance and engineering support for our fleet of approximately 1,100 mainline and regional aircraft, our MRO operation, known as Delta TechOps, serves aviation and airline customers from around the world.
•Our vacation wholesale subsidiary, Delta Vacations, provides vacation packages to third-party consumers.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      6
Item 1. Business
In January 2020, we combined Delta Private Jets, a former Delta subsidiary that provides aircraft charters, aircraft management and programs allowing members to purchase flight time by the hour, with Wheels Up. As of December 31, 2020, we owned a 24% equity stake in Wheels Up.

In 2019, the total revenue from these other businesses was approximately $1.2 billion. This revenue was reduced to approximately $650 million in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and our deconsolidation of Delta Private Jets following the transaction with Wheels Up.

Employee Matters

Human Capital

We believe that Delta people are our strongest competitive advantage, and the high-quality service that they provide sets us apart from other airlines. As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 74,000 people, of which approximately 72,000 were based in the U.S. In 2020, the dedication and determination of Delta people in response to the unprecedented challenges we faced due to the COVID-19 pandemic enabled us to avoid involuntary furloughs of U.S. employees, with approximately 50,000 employees volunteering to take unpaid leaves of absence, approximately 18,000 employees participating in early retirement and voluntary separation programs and from April 1 through December 31, 2020, most employees working reduced hours.

Our principal human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop people who understand and are committed to delivering the “Delta Difference” that is core to our brand. To support these objectives, our human resources programs seek to:

•Prepare our employees for key roles and future leadership positions through a variety of training and development programs.
•Reward our people through highly competitive total compensation and benefit programs designed to share our success, promote teamwork and support our people’s total wellbeing.
•Enhance our culture through efforts aimed at making our workplace more engaging, equitable and inclusive.
•Drive employees’ professional and community engagement.

The health and safety of our employees is foundational to achieving these objectives. We have long led the airline industry in employee safety and seek to achieve world-class personal safety performance.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we created pay protection programs for employees with symptoms, diagnosed, exposed or at high risk for severe illness from COVID-19 and established a notification process for potential COVID-19 exposure. We also assembled a COVID-19 task force to develop a series of safety measures in an effort to protect our employees and customers, including offering on-site rapid COVID-19 testing in most locations and making at-home testing available for all U.S.-based employees, and offering a return-to-work safety training program.

Our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion is also critical to effective human capital management at Delta. As a global airline, we are in the business of bringing people together, and we believe our business should reflect the diversity of our customer base. To achieve this goal, we seek diverse talent internally and externally in an effort to achieve broader diverse representation throughout our organization. We also promote inclusion through education, training and development opportunities as well as by leveraging insights from our business resource groups, of which approximately one-third of our employees were members as of December 31, 2020. In addition, we intend to drive accountability for equitable outcomes by reviewing and revising systems, practices and policies and measuring inclusive behaviors, practices and representation. Two key areas on which we are focused are (1) reinforcement of our diverse talent pipeline by, among other things, requiring hiring candidate slates and interview panels to reflect diversity and giving equal consideration for accessible experience or certifications in an effort to remove unnecessary barriers, like college degrees, to certain roles and (2) closing diversity gaps in senior leadership positions by increasing the representation of minority and female officers, including doubling the number of black officers by 2025.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      7
Item 1. Business
We believe that listening, engaging and connecting with employees furthers our human capital management objectives. We have historically done so primarily through our open-door policy, digital communication across all levels of the company, in-person events with senior management and company-wide and division-specific surveys to evaluate employee satisfaction. Since March 2020, senior management has participated in weekly company-wide virtual town hall discussions with our employees and our Chief Executive Officer has written weekly memos to all employees regarding our response to the COVID-19 pandemic and our plan to take action on racial justice and diversity. We have also continued to conduct periodic employee surveys to seek feedback on wellbeing, communication and our COVID-19 response.

Collective Bargaining

As of December 31, 2020, 23% of our approximately 74,000 full-time equivalent employees were represented by unions. The following table shows our domestic airline employee groups that are represented by unions.

Domestic airline employees represented by collective bargaining agreements by group	Employee Group	Approximate Number of Active Employees Represented		Union	Date on which Collective Bargaining Agreement Becomes Amendable	Delta Pilots	12,940 			ALPA	December 31, 2019	Delta Flight Superintendents (Dispatchers)	350 			PAFCA	November 1, 2024	Endeavor Air Pilots	1,900 			ALPA	January 1, 2024	
Endeavor Air Flight Attendants
1,480 			AFA	March 31, 2025 

We are in mediated discussions with the representative of the Delta pilots regarding terms of their amendable collective bargaining agreement under the auspices of the National Mediation Board ("NMB").

In addition to the domestic airline employee groups discussed above, approximately 190 refinery employees of Monroe are represented by the United Steel Workers under an agreement that expires on February 28, 2022. This agreement is governed by the National Labor Relations Act ("NLRA"), which generally allows either party to engage in self-help upon the expiration of the agreement. Certain of our employees outside the U.S. are represented by unions, work councils or other local representative groups.

Labor unions periodically engage in organizing efforts to represent various groups of our employees, including at our operating subsidiaries, that are not represented for collective bargaining purposes.

Fuel

Our results of operations are significantly impacted by changes in the price and availability of aircraft fuel. We purchase most of our aircraft fuel under contracts that establish the price based on various market indices and therefore do not provide material protection against price increases or assure the availability of our fuel supplies. We also purchase aircraft fuel on the spot market, from off-shore sources and under contracts that permit the refiners to set the price. We are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of aircraft fuel, including fuel produced by Monroe or procured through the exchange of non-jet fuel products the refinery produces, and crude oil for Monroe's operations.

The following table shows our aircraft fuel consumption and costs, which were materially reduced in 2020 in large part due to our reduced operations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Fuel consumption and expense by year					Year	
Gallons Consumed(1)
(in millions)
Cost(1)(2)
(in millions)
Average Price Per Gallon(1)(2)
Percentage of Total Operating Expense(1)(2)
2020	1,935 		$	3,176 		$	1.64 		10.7 	%	2019	4,214 		$	8,519 		$	2.02 		21.1 	%	2018	4,113 		$	9,020 		$	2.20 		23.0 	% 

(1)Includes the operations of our regional carriers operating under capacity purchase agreements.
(2)Includes the impact of fuel hedge activity and refinery segment results.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      8
Item 1. Business
Monroe Energy

Our wholly owned subsidiaries, Monroe Energy, LLC and MIPC, LLC (collectively, "Monroe"), operate the Trainer refinery and related assets located near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The facilities include pipelines and terminal assets that allow the refinery to supply jet fuel to our airline operations throughout the Northeastern U.S., including our New York hubs at LaGuardia and JFK. These companies are distinct from us, operating under their own management teams and with their own boards of managers. We own Monroe as part of our strategy to mitigate the cost of the refining margin reflected in the price of jet fuel, as well as to maintain sufficiency of supply to our New York operations.

Refinery Operations. The facility is capable of refining approximately 200,000 barrels of crude oil per day. In addition to jet fuel, the refinery's production consists of gasoline, diesel and other refined petroleum products ("non-jet fuel products"). Monroe sources domestic and foreign crude oil supply from a variety of providers. During 2020, the refinery operated at 60% – 90% of normal production levels, largely due to the significant decrease in the demand for jet fuel. Additionally, due to the decrease in demand for jet fuel, the refinery has shifted production to produce more non-jet fuel products.

Strategic Agreements. Monroe has agreements in place to exchange the non-jet fuel products the refinery produces with third parties for jet fuel consumed in our airline operations.

Fuel Hedging Program

Our derivative contracts to hedge the financial risk from changing fuel prices are primarily related to Monroe’s inventory. We may utilize different contract and commodity types in this program and frequently test their economic effectiveness against our financial targets. We closely monitor the hedge portfolio and rebalance the portfolio based on market conditions, which may result in locking in gains or losses on hedge contracts prior to their settlement dates.

Competition

The airline industry is highly competitive, marked by significant competition with respect to routes, fares, schedules (both timing and frequency), operational reliability, services, products, customer service and loyalty programs. The industry has evolved through mergers and new entry, both domestically and internationally, and evolution in international alliances. Consolidation in the airline industry, the presence of subsidized government sponsored international carriers, changes in international alliances and the creation of immunized joint ventures have altered, and will continue to alter, the competitive landscape in the industry, resulting in the formation of airlines and alliances with significant financial resources, extensive global networks and competitive cost structures. The COVID-19 pandemic could enhance the competitive dynamics within the industry, although we are unable to predict the duration and extent of this potentially increased pressure.

Domestic

Our domestic operations are subject to competition from traditional network carriers, including American Airlines and United Airlines, national point-to-point carriers, including Alaska Airlines, JetBlue Airways and Southwest Airlines, and other discount or ultra low-cost carriers, including Spirit Airlines, Frontier Airlines and Allegiant Air, some of which may have lower costs than we do and provide service at low fares to destinations served by Delta. Point-to-point, discount and ultra low-cost carriers place significant competitive pressure on network carriers in the domestic market. In particular, we face significant competition at our domestic hubs and key airports either directly at those airports or at the hubs of other airlines that are located in close proximity to our hubs and key airports. We also face competition in smaller to medium-sized markets from regional jet operations of other carriers.

International

Our international operations are subject to competition from both foreign and domestic carriers, including from point-to-point carriers on certain international routes. Through alliance and other marketing and codesharing agreements with foreign carriers, U.S. carriers have increased their ability to sell international transportation, such as services to and beyond traditional European and Asian gateway cities. Similarly, foreign carriers have obtained increased access to interior U.S. passenger traffic beyond traditional U.S. gateway cities through these relationships. In particular, alliances formed by domestic and foreign carriers, including SkyTeam, the Star Alliance (among United Airlines, Lufthansa German Airlines, Air Canada and others) and the oneworld alliance (among American Airlines, British Airways, Qantas and others) have enhanced competition in international markets.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      9
Item 1. Business
In addition, several joint ventures among U.S. and foreign carriers, including several of our joint ventures, have received grants of antitrust immunity allowing the participating carriers to coordinate schedules, pricing, sales and inventory. Other joint ventures that have received antitrust immunity include a transatlantic alliance among United Airlines, Air Canada and Lufthansa German Airlines, a transpacific joint venture between United Airlines and All Nippon Airways, a transatlantic joint venture among American Airlines, British Airways and Iberia, a transpacific joint venture between American Airlines and Japan Air Lines and a transpacific joint venture between American Airlines and Qantas.

Competition from government-owned and subsidized carriers in the Gulf region, including Emirates, Etihad Airways and Qatar Airways, is also significant. Subsidies allowed these carriers to grow quickly prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, reinvest in their product and expand their global presence at the expense of U.S. airlines.

Regulatory Matters

The DOT and the Federal Aviation Administration (the "FAA") exercise regulatory authority over air transportation in the U.S. The DOT has authority to issue certificates of public convenience and necessity required for airlines to provide domestic air transportation. An air carrier that the DOT finds fit to operate is given authority to operate domestic and international air transportation (including the carriage of passengers and cargo). Since the passage of the Airline Industry Deregulation Act in 1978, airlines have generally been free to launch or terminate service to U.S airports without restriction, except with respect to certain slot-controlled and schedule-facilitated airports, as well as certain constraints related to service to small communities governed by the "Essential Air Services" program. The Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020 created certain continuation of service obligations in connection with the receipt of payroll support program funds by passenger airlines. Specifically, the DOT has the authority until March 1, 2022 to require airlines that received such funds to maintain scheduled air service deemed necessary to any point served by the airline before March 1, 2020. The DOT has issued two orders mandating such service, the most recent of which was finalized on January 15, 2021, mandating service levels through March 31, 2021, subject to certain definitions and exceptions as described in the order.

The DOT has jurisdiction over certain economic and consumer protection matters, such as unfair or deceptive practices and methods of competition, advertising, denied boarding compensation, baggage liability and disabled passenger transportation. The DOT also has authority to review certain joint venture agreements between domestic and international carriers. The DOT engages in regulation of economic matters such as transactions involving allocation of "slots" or similar regulatory mechanisms which limit the rights of carriers to conduct operations at airports where such mechanisms are in place. The FAA has primary responsibility for matters relating to the safety of air carrier flight operations, including airline operating certificates, control of navigable air space, flight personnel, aircraft certification and maintenance and other matters affecting air safety.

Authority to operate international routes and international codesharing arrangements is regulated by the DOT and by the governments of the foreign countries involved. International certificate authorities are also subject to the approval of the U.S. President for conformance with national defense and foreign policy objectives.

The Transportation Security Administration and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, each a division of the Department of Homeland Security, are responsible for certain civil aviation security matters, including passenger and baggage screening at U.S. airports and international passenger prescreening prior to entry into or departure from the U.S.

Airlines are also subject to various other federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the U.S. Department of Justice has jurisdiction over airline competition matters. The U.S. Postal Service has authority over certain aspects of the transportation of mail. Labor relations in the airline industry, as discussed below, are generally governed by the Railway Labor Act with oversight by the NMB. Environmental matters are regulated by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental entities. Privacy of passenger and employee data is regulated by domestic and foreign laws and regulations.

Fares and Rates

Airlines set ticket prices in all domestic and most international city pairs with minimal governmental regulation, and the industry is characterized by significant price competition. Certain international fares and rates are subject to the jurisdiction of the DOT and the governments of the foreign countries involved. Many of our tickets are sold by travel agents, and fares are subject to commissions, overrides and discounts paid to travel agents, brokers and wholesalers.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      10
Item 1. Business
Route Authority

Our flight operations are authorized by certificates of public convenience and necessity and also by exemptions and limited-entry frequency awards issued by the DOT. The requisite approvals of other governments for international operations are controlled by bilateral agreements (and a multilateral agreement in the case of the U.S. and the European Union) with, or permits or approvals issued by, foreign countries. Because international air transportation is governed by bilateral or other agreements between the U.S. and the foreign country or countries involved, changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of our international route authorities or otherwise affect our international operations. Bilateral agreements between the U.S. and various foreign countries served by us are subject to renegotiation from time to time. The U.S. government has negotiated "Open Skies" agreements with many countries, which allow unrestricted access between the U.S. and the foreign markets.

Certain of our international route authorities are subject to periodic renewal requirements. We request extension of these authorities when and as appropriate. While the DOT usually renews temporary authorities on routes where the authorized carrier is providing a reasonable level of service, there is no assurance this practice will continue in general or with respect to a specific renewal. Dormant route authorities may not be renewed in some cases, especially where another U.S. carrier indicates a willingness to provide service.

Airport Access

Operations at three major domestic airports and certain foreign airports served by us are regulated by governmental entities through allocations of "slots" or similar regulatory mechanisms. Each slot represents the authorization to land at or take off from the particular airport during a specified time period.

In the U.S., the FAA currently regulates the allocation of slots, slot exemptions, operating authorizations, or similar capacity allocation mechanisms at Reagan National in Washington, D.C. and LaGuardia and JFK in the New York City area. Our operations at these airports generally require the allocation of slots or analogous regulatory authorizations. Similarly, our operations at Tokyo's Haneda airport, London's Heathrow airport and other international airports are regulated by local slot coordinators pursuant to the International Air Transport Association's Worldwide Scheduling Guidelines and applicable local law. We currently have sufficient slots or analogous authorizations to operate our existing flights, and we have generally been able to obtain the rights to expand our operations and to change our schedules. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to do so in the future because, among other reasons, such allocations are subject to changes in governmental policies.

Airline Labor Regulation

Labor unions representing airline employees in the U.S. are governed by the Railway Labor Act. Under the Railway Labor Act, a labor union seeking to represent an unrepresented craft or class of employees is required to file with the NMB an application alleging a representation dispute, along with authorization cards signed by at least 50% of the employees in that craft or class. The NMB then investigates the dispute and, if it finds the labor union has obtained a sufficient number of authorization cards, conducts an election to determine whether to certify the labor union as the collective bargaining representative of that craft or class. A labor union will be certified as the representative of the employees in a craft or class if more than 50% of votes cast are for representation. A certified labor union would commence negotiations toward a collective bargaining agreement with the employer.

Under the Railway Labor Act, a collective bargaining agreement between an airline and a labor union does not expire, but instead becomes amendable as of a stated date. Either party may request that the NMB appoint a federal mediator to participate in the negotiations for a new or amended agreement. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the NMB may determine, at any time, that an impasse exists and offer binding arbitration. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day "cooling off" period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in “self-help,” unless the U.S. President appoints a Presidential Emergency Board ("PEB") to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a PEB maintains the "status quo" for an additional 60 days. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in self help. Self-help includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the imposition of proposed changes to the collective bargaining agreement by the airline. The U.S. Congress and the President have the authority to prevent self-help by enacting legislation that, among other things, imposes a settlement on the parties.

Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      11
Item 1. Business
Environmental Regulation and Related Matters

Our operations are subject to a number of international, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing protection of the environment, including regulation of greenhouse gases and other air emissions, noise reduction, water discharges, aircraft drinking water, storage and use of petroleum and other regulated substances, and the management and disposal of hazardous waste, substances and materials.

Emissions. Carbon emissions by the aviation industry and their impact on climate change have become a particular focus in the international community and within the U.S. For several years, the European Union has required its member states to implement regulations to include aviation in its Emissions Trading Scheme ("ETS"). Under these regulations, any airline with flights originating or landing in the European Union is subject to the ETS and, beginning in 2012, was required to purchase emissions allowances if the airline exceeds the number of free allowances allocated to it under the ETS. The ETS was amended to apply only to flights within the European Economic Area from 2013 through 2016. In 2017, the EU extended the exemption for foreign flights through 2023 based on the International Civil Aviation Organization’s ("ICAO") adoption of a global market-based program.

In 2016, ICAO formally adopted a global, market-based emissions offset program known as the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation ("CORSIA"). This program establishes a medium-term goal for the aviation industry of achieving carbon-neutral growth in international aviation beginning in 2021, based on a 2019 baseline. A pilot phase of the offset program will begin in 2021, followed by a first phase of the program beginning in 2024 and a second phase beginning in 2027. Countries can voluntarily participate in the pilot and first phase, and the United States has agreed to participate in these voluntary phases. Participation in the second phase is mandatory for certain countries, including the United States. The U.S. government has not yet enacted legislation to mandate that U.S. operators participate in CORSIA. However, Delta submitted our CORSIA Emissions Monitoring Plan to the FAA in 2019 and in 2020, submitted our verified emissions report for 2019 international emissions. In 2017, ICAO also adopted new aircraft certification standards to reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from aircraft. The new aircraft certification standards apply to new fleet types in 2020 and to new in-production aircraft starting in 2023 but no later than 2028. These standards will not apply to existing in-service aircraft. However, exemption from the certification requirement could affect how these aircraft are treated under other programs governing CO2 emissions.

In 2016, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") issued a final finding under the Clean Air Act that greenhouse gases threaten the public health and welfare, and further determined that certain classes of aircraft engines cause or contribute to greenhouse gases. The endangerment finding did not establish standards, but triggered an obligation for the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from certain aircraft engines. In January 2021, the EPA finalized greenhouse gas emission standards for new aircraft engines designed to implement the ICAO standards on the same timeframe contemplated by ICAO. Like the ICAO standards, the final EPA standards would not apply to engines on in-service aircraft. The final standards have been challenged by several states and environmental groups, and the Biden administration has announced plans to review these final standards along with others issued by the prior administration. The outcome of the legal challenge and administrative review cannot be predicted at this time.

The airline industry may face additional regulation of aircraft emissions in the U.S. and abroad and become subject to further taxes, charges or additional requirements to obtain permits or purchase allowances or emission credits for greenhouse gas emissions in various jurisdictions. Additional regulation could result in taxation, regulatory or permitting requirements from multiple jurisdictions for the same operations and significant costs for us and the airline industry. In addition to direct costs, such regulation could result in increased fuel costs passed through from fuel suppliers affected by any such regulations. Certain airports have also adopted, and others could in the future adopt, greenhouse gas emission or climate-related goals and requirements that could impact our operations or require us to make changes or investments in our infrastructure. We are monitoring and evaluating the potential impact of such developments.

In February 2020, we announced plans to invest $1 billion in the next ten years in our effort to achieve carbon neutrality. As part of this plan, we seek to minimize the impact of carbon emissions from our operations and build on the reductions realized since 2005. We have improved the fuel efficiency of our aircraft through the retirement of older aircraft and their replacement with newer, more fuel efficient aircraft. In addition, we have implemented fuel saving procedures in our flight and ground support operations that further reduce carbon emissions. We are also supporting efforts to develop sustainable alternative fuels and efforts to modernize the air traffic control system in the U.S. to further reduce our emissions and minimize our impact on the environment. Beyond carbon reduction efforts, we expect carbon removal through investment in innovative projects and technologies and stakeholder engagement through coalitions intended to advance carbon reduction to be important aspects of our journey to carbon neutrality.
Delta Air Lines, Inc. 2020 Form 10-K                                      12
Item 1. Business
Noise. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 recognizes the rights of operators of airports with noise problems to implement local noise abatement programs so long as such programs do not interfere unreasonably with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. This statute generally provides that local noise restrictions on Stage 3 aircraft first effective after October 1, 1990, require FAA approval. While we have had sufficient scheduling flexibility to accommodate local noise restrictions in the past, our operations could be adversely impacted if locally imposed regulations become more restrictive or widespread. In addition, foreign governments may allow airports to enact similar restrictions, which could adversely impact our international operations or require significant expenditure in order for our aircraft to comply with the restrictions.

Refinery Matters. Monroe's operation of the Trainer refinery is subject to numerous environmental laws and extensive regulations, including those relating to the discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, pollution prevention measures and greenhouse gas and other air emissions.

Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, as expanded by the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the Renewable Fuel Standard ("RFS") was created, setting up specific targets of renewable fuel to be used in the U.S. economy by mandating the blending of renewable fuels into gasoline and on-road diesel ("Transportation Fuels"). Renewable Identification Numbers ("RINs") are assigned to renewable fuels produced or imported into the U.S. that are blended into Transportation Fuels to demonstrate compliance with this obligation. A refinery may meet its obligation under RFS by blending the necessary volumes of renewable fuels with Transportation Fuels or by purchasing RINs in the open market or through a combination of blending and purchasing RINs. Because Monroe is able to blend only a small amount of renewable fuels, it must purchase the majority of its RINs requirement in the secondary market or obtain a waiver from the EPA. Market prices for RINs have been volatile, marked by periods of sharp increases and decreases primarily in response to predictions about what the EPA and/or the U.S. Congress will do with respect to compliance obligations.

Other Environmental Matters. We are subject to certain environmental laws and contractual obligations governing the management and release of regulated substances, which may require the investigation and remediation of affected sites. Soil and/or ground water impacts have been identified at certain of our current or former leaseholds at several domestic airports. To address these impacts, we have a program in place to investigate and, if appropriate, remediate these sites. Although the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements.

Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program

We participate in the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program (the "CRAF Program"), which permits the U.S. military to use the aircraft and crew resources of participating U.S. airlines during airlift emergencies, national emergencies or times of war. We have agreed to make available under the CRAF Program a portion of our international aircraft during the contract period ending September 30, 2022. The CRAF Program has only been activated twice since it was created in 1951.


Additional Information

We make available free of charge on our website at ir.delta.com our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K or our other securities filings and is not a part of those filings.
