Products

Deere & Company (the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, John Deere) have operations that are categorized into three major business segments.

The agriculture and turf segment primarily manufactures and distributes a full line of agriculture and turf equipment and related service parts, including: large, medium, and utility tractors; tractor loaders; combines, cotton pickers, cotton strippers, and sugarcane harvesters; harvesting front-end equipment; sugarcane loaders and pull-behind scrapers; tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery; hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, and commercial mowing equipment, along with a broad line of associated implements; integrated agricultural solutions and precision technologies; and other outdoor power products.

The construction and forestry segment primarily manufactures and distributes a broad range of machines and service parts used in construction, earthmoving, roadbuilding, material handling and timber harvesting, including: backhoe loaders; crawler dozers and loaders; four-wheel-drive loaders; excavators; motor graders; articulated dump trucks; landscape loaders; skid-steer loaders; milling machines; recyclers; slipform pavers; surface miners; asphalt pavers; compactors; tandem and static rollers; mobile crushers and screens; mobile and stationary asphalt plants; log skidders; feller bunchers; log loaders; log forwarders; log harvesters and related logging attachments; and precision technologies.

The products and services produced by the segments above are marketed primarily through independent retail dealer networks and major retail outlets, and, as it relates to roadbuilding products, primarily through Company-owned sales and service subsidiaries.

The financial services segment primarily finances sales and leases by John Deere dealers of new and used agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment. In addition, the financial services segment provides wholesale financing to dealers of the foregoing equipment, finances retail revolving charge accounts and offers extended equipment warranties.

John Deere’s worldwide agriculture and turf operations and construction and forestry operations are sometimes collectively referred to as the “equipment operations.” The financial services segment is sometimes referred to as the “financial services operations.”

Additional information is presented in the discussion of business segment and geographic area results on pages 26 – 27. The John Deere enterprise has manufactured agricultural machinery since 1837. The present Company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1958.

The Company’s internet address is http://www.JohnDeere.com. Through that address, the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (Securities and Exchange Commission or Commission). The information contained on the Company’s website is not included in, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Market Conditions

Agriculture and Turf. Industry sales of agricultural equipment in the U.S. and Canada are forecast to increase 5 to 10 percent driven by gains in larger models. Full year industry sales in Europe are forecast to be about the same as 2020 to 5 percent higher. In South America, industry sales of tractors and combines are forecast to be about 5 percent higher while Asian sales are expected to be slightly lower than 2020. Industry sales of turf and utility equipment in the U.S. and Canada are expected to be about the same to 5 percent higher for 2021.

2

Table of Contents

Construction and Forestry. Full year 2021 North American construction equipment industry sales are expected to be down about 5 percent with sales of compact equipment up about 5 percent. Global forestry industry sales are forecast to be about the same to 5 percent higher in 2021.

Financial Services. Results for the full year 2021 are expected to benefit from favorable financing spreads, lower losses on operating lease residual values, and income earned on a higher average portfolio, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses.

2020 Consolidated Results Compared with 2019

For fiscal 2020, worldwide net income attributable to the Company was $2.751 billion, or $8.69 per share, compared with $3.253 billion, or $10.15 per share, in 2019. Worldwide net sales and revenues decreased 9 percent to $35.540 billion in 2020, compared with $39.258 billion in 2019. Net income in 2020 was negatively affected by impairment charges and employee-separation costs of $458 million after-tax (see Notes 4 and 5). In 2019, the similar charges were $82 million. In addition, the provision for income taxes was adversely affected by non-deductible impairments and charges in 2020 and less favorably affected by discrete adjustments in 2020 than in 2019. Net sales of worldwide equipment operations decreased in fiscal 2020 to $31.272 billion, compared with $34.886 billion last year. Both Agriculture and Turf and Construction and Forestry sales decreased for 2020 due to lower shipment volumes and the unfavorable effects of currency translation, partially offset by price realization.  

Worldwide equipment operations had an operating profit of $3.559 billion in fiscal 2020, compared with $3.721 billion in fiscal 2019. Operating profit for Agricultural and Turf increased largely due to price realization, reduced selling, administrative, and general expenses, lower research and development expenses, lower warranty expenses, and improved production costs. These items were partially offset by lower sales volumes / mix, employee-separation expenses, impairments, and the unfavorable effects of currency exchange. Construction and Forestry’s operating profit declined mainly due to lower sales volume / mix, employee-separation expenses, impairments, and the unfavorable effects of currency exchange. The operating profit decrease was partially offset by price realization, lower research and development expenses, reduced selling, administrative and general expenses, and improved production costs.

Net income of the Company’s equipment operations was $2.185 billion for fiscal 2020, compared with $2.714 billion in fiscal 2019. The equipment operations’ provision for income taxes and net income were adversely affected by non-deductible impairments and charges in 2020 and less favorably affected by discrete adjustments to the provision for income taxes in 2020 than in 2019.

The financial services operations reported net income attributable to the Company of $566 million for fiscal 2020 compared with $539 million in fiscal 2019. The increase was mainly due to lower impairments and reduced losses on operating lease residual values and income earned on a higher average portfolio, partially offset by a higher provision for credit losses, employee-separation expenses, and unfavorable financing spreads.

The cost of sales to net sales ratio for 2020 was 75.7 percent, compared with 76.8 percent for 2019. The cost of sales to net sales ratio decreased compared to 2019 mainly due to price realization, improved production costs, and lower warranty expenses, partially offset by impairments, employee-separation expenses (see Note 5), and the unfavorable effects of foreign currency exchange.   

Additional information on fiscal 2020 results is presented on pages 24 – 27.

EQUIPMENT OPERATIONS

Agriculture and Turf

The John Deere agriculture and turf segment manufactures and distributes a full line of agriculture and turf equipment and related service parts. This equipment includes large, medium and utility tractors and related attachments; tractor loaders; combines; cotton pickers; cotton strippers; sugarcane harvesters; related harvesting front-end equipment; sugarcane loaders; pull-behind scrapers; turf and utility equipment, including riding lawn equipment, commercial mowing equipment, golf course equipment, utility vehicles, implements for mowing, tilling, snow and debris handling, aerating and many other residential, commercial, golf and sports turf care applications and other outdoor power products; hay and forage equipment, including self-propelled forage harvesters and attachments, balers and mowers; and tillage, seeding and application equipment, including sprayers, nutrient management and soil preparation machinery. John Deere also purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale.

The segment consolidates all markets into four geographical customer focus areas to deliver measurable customer value. Beginning in fiscal 2021, the segment’s operations are organized around the systems used by customers to produce output. These production systems include large grains (such as corn and soy), small grains (such as wheat, oats, and barley), sugarcane, and cotton.

The segment also provides integrated agricultural solutions and precision technologies across its portfolio of large equipment. John Deere has developed a unique, system-level approach designed to improve customer profitability, productivity, and sustainability. This approach includes precise global navigation satellite systems technology, advanced connectivity and telematics, on-board sensors and

3

Table of Contents

computing power, automation software, digital tools, and applications and analytics that together enable seamless integration of information, designed to improve customer decision making and execution of jobs. John Deere’s advanced telematics systems remotely connect agricultural equipment owners, business managers and dealers to agricultural equipment in the field, providing real-time alerts and information about equipment location, utilization, performance and maintenance to improve productivity and efficiency.

In addition to the John Deere brand, the agriculture and turf segment purchases and sells a variety of equipment attachments under the Frontier, Kemper and Green Systems brand names. The segment also manufactures and sells sprayers under the Hagie and Mazzotti brand names, planters and cultivators under the Monosem brand name, sprayers and planters under the PLA brand name, and carbon fiber sprayer booms under the King Agro brand name. The segment also sells sugarcane harvester aftermarket parts under the Unimil brand name. John Deere manufactures its agriculture and turf equipment for sale primarily through independent retail dealer networks, and also builds turf products for sale by mass retailers, including The Home Depot and Lowe’s.

Sales of agricultural equipment are affected by total farm cash receipts, which reflect levels of farm commodity prices, acreage planted, crop yields and government policies, including global trade policies and the amount and timing of government payments. Sales are also influenced by general economic conditions, farm land prices, farmers’ debt levels and access to financing, interest and exchange rates, agricultural trends, including the production of and demand for renewable fuels, labor availability and costs, energy costs, tax policies and other input costs associated with farming. Other important factors affecting new agricultural equipment sales are the value and level of used equipment, including tractors, harvesting equipment, self-propelled sprayers, hay and forage equipment and seeding equipment. Weather and climatic conditions can also affect buying decisions of agricultural equipment purchasers.

Innovations in machinery and technology also influence agricultural equipment purchasing. For example, larger, more productive equipment is well accepted where farmers are striving for more efficiency in their operations. Large, cost-efficient, highly-mechanized agricultural operations account for an important share of worldwide farm output. These customers are increasingly adopting and integrating precision agricultural technologies like guidance, telematics, and data management in their operations. The large-size agricultural equipment used on such farms has been particularly important to John Deere. A large proportion of the equipment operations’ total agricultural equipment sales in the U.S. and Canada, and a large proportion of sales in many countries outside the U.S. and Canada, are comprised of tractors over 100 horsepower, self-propelled combines, self-propelled cotton pickers, self-propelled forage harvesters, self-propelled sprayers and seeding equipment. However, small tractors are an important part of our global tractor business. Further, John Deere offers a number of harvesting solutions to support development of the mechanized harvesting of grain, oilseeds, cotton, sugar and biomass.

Retail sales of lawn and garden tractors, compact utility tractors, residential and commercial mowers, utility vehicles, and golf and turf equipment are influenced by weather conditions, consumer spending patterns and general economic conditions.

Seasonality. Seasonal patterns in retail demand for agricultural equipment result in substantial variations in the volume and mix of products sold to retail customers during the year. Seasonal demand must be estimated in advance, and equipment must be manufactured in anticipation of such demand in order to achieve efficient utilization of manpower and facilities throughout the year. For certain equipment, John Deere offers early order discounts to retail customers. Production schedules are based, in part, on these early order programs. The segment incurs substantial seasonal variation in cash flows to finance production and inventory of agricultural equipment. The segment also incurs costs to finance sales to dealers in advance of seasonal demand. New combine and cotton harvesting equipment has been sold under early order programs with waivers of retail finance charges available to customers who take delivery of machines during off-season periods. In Australia, Canada, and the U.S., there are typically several used equipment trade-in transactions as part of most new agricultural equipment sales. To provide support to its dealers for these used equipment trade-ins, John Deere provides dealers in these countries with pools of funds, awarded to dealers as a percentage of the dealer cost for eligible new equipment sales. Dealers can use these funds to defray the costs of carrying or marketing used equipment inventory or to provide incentives to customers purchasing the used equipment.

Retail demand for turf and utility equipment is normally higher in the second and third fiscal quarters. John Deere has pursued a strategy of building and shipping such equipment as close to retail demand as possible. Consequently, to increase asset turnover and reduce the average level of field inventories through the year, production and shipment schedules of these product lines are normally proportionately higher in the second and third fiscal quarters of each year, corresponding closely to the seasonal pattern of retail sales.

4

Table of Contents

Construction and Forestry

John Deere’s construction and forestry equipment includes a broad range of backhoe loaders, crawler dozers and loaders, four-wheel-drive loaders, excavators, motor graders, articulated dump trucks, landscape loaders, skid-steer loaders, milling machines, pavers, compactors, rollers, crushers, screens, asphalt plants, log skidders, log feller bunchers, log loaders, log forwarders, log harvesters, and a variety of attachments. John Deere provides a broad line of construction equipment and the most complete line of forestry machines and attachments available in the world. John Deere also manufactures and distributes roadbuilding equipment through its wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Wirtgen Group.

The construction and forestry machines are distributed under the John Deere brand name, except for the Wirtgen Group products, which are manufactured and distributed under six brand names: Wirtgen, Vögele, Hamm, Kleeman, Benninghoven, and Ciber. Forestry attachments are distributed under the John Deere and Waratah brand names. In addition to the equipment manufactured by the construction and forestry segment, John Deere purchases certain products from other manufacturers for resale. The segment also provides advanced connectivity and telematics solutions designed to improve customer productivity, efficiency, and worksite management through access to fleet location, utilization, performance, and maintenance information.

The prevailing levels of residential, commercial and public construction, investment in infrastructure, and the condition of the forestry products industry influence retail sales of John Deere construction, earthmoving, roadbuilding, material handling, and forestry equipment. General economic conditions, the level of interest rates, the availability of credit and certain commodity prices, such as oil and gas and those applicable to pulp, paper and saw logs also influence sales.

John Deere licenses Bell Equipment Limited (Bell) to manufacture and sell certain John Deere-designed construction equipment in specified territories of Africa. Bell is also the distributor of certain John Deere-manufactured construction equipment under the Bell brand and forestry equipment under the John Deere brand in certain territories of Africa.

John Deere and Hitachi Construction Machinery Co. (Hitachi) have a joint venture for the manufacture of hydraulic excavators and tracked forestry equipment in the U.S., Canada, and Brazil. John Deere distributes Hitachi brands of construction and mining equipment in North, Central, and South America.

The segment has a number of initiatives in the rent-to-rent, or short-term rental, market for construction, earthmoving, roadbuilding, and material handling equipment. These include specially designed rental programs for John Deere dealers and expanded cooperation with major, national equipment rental companies.

John Deere also owns Nortrax, Inc., an authorized John Deere dealer for construction, earthmoving, material handling and forestry equipment in the U.S. John Deere also owns retail forestry sales operations in Australia, Brazil, Finland, Ireland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. In addition, in many markets worldwide (most significantly in the European Union, India and Australia), the Wirtgen Group sells its products primarily through company-owned sales and service subsidiaries.

Competition

The equipment operations sell products and services into a variety of highly competitive global and regional markets. The principal competitive factors in all markets include product performance, innovation and quality, distribution, customer service and price. In North America and many other parts of the world, John Deere’s brand recognition is a competitive factor.

The competitive environment for the agriculture and turf segment includes some global competitors, including AGCO Corporation, CLAAS KGaA mbH, CNH Industrial N.V., Kubota Tractor Corporation, Mahindra, and The Toro Company and many regional and local competitors. These competitors have varying numbers of product lines competing with the segment’s products and each has varying degrees of regional focus. Additional competition within the agricultural equipment industry has come from a variety of short-line and specialty manufacturers, as well as indigenous regional competitors, with differing manufacturing and marketing methods. As technology becomes increasingly important to enable productivity in agriculture, the industry is attracting non-traditional competitors including more technology-focused companies and start-up ventures. The agricultural equipment industry continues to undergo significant changes and is becoming even more competitive through the emergence and expanding global capability of many competitors, particularly in high potential markets such as Brazil and India where John Deere seeks to increase market share. The segment’s turf equipment is sold primarily in the highly competitive North American and Western European markets.

Global competitors of the construction and forestry segment include Caterpillar Inc., CNH Industrial N.V., Doosan Infracore Co., Ltd. and its subsidiary Doosan Bobcat Inc., Fayat Group, Komatsu Ltd., Kubota Tractor Corporation, Ponsse Plc, SANY Group Co., Ltd., Terex, Tigercat Industries Inc., Volvo Construction Equipment (part of Volvo Group AB) and XCMG. The construction business operates in highly competitive markets in North and South America and other global markets, including China and Russia. The forestry and roadbuilding businesses operate globally. The segment manufactures over 90 percent of the types of construction equipment used in the U.S. and Canada, including construction, forestry, earthmoving, roadbuilding, and material handling equipment.

5

Table of Contents

Manufacturing

Manufacturing Plants. In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own and operate 21 factory locations and lease and operate another two locations. Of these 23 factories, 13 are devoted primarily to agriculture and turf equipment, four to construction and forestry equipment, one to engines, two to engine and component remanufacturing, two to hydraulic and power train components, and one to electronic components. Outside the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations own or lease and operate 47 factories, including: agriculture and turf equipment factories in Argentina, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Russia, and Spain; earthmoving equipment factories in Brazil and China; engine, engine/power train, hydraulic, or electronic component factories in Argentina, China, France, India, and Mexico; roadbuilding equipment factories in Brazil, China, Germany, and India; and forestry equipment factories in Finland and New Zealand. The engine factories referred to above manufacture non-road, heavy duty diesel engines.

The equipment operations also have financial interests in other manufacturing organizations, which include Bell in South Africa, the Hitachi joint venture that builds hydraulic excavators and tracked forestry equipment in the U.S., Canada, and Brazil, and ventures that manufacture transaxles and transmissions used in certain agriculture and turf segment products.

John Deere’s facilities are well maintained, in good operating condition and suitable for their present purposes. These facilities, together with both short-term and long-term planned capital expenditures, are expected to meet John Deere’s manufacturing needs in the foreseeable future.

Existing capacity is sufficient to satisfy John Deere’s current expectations for retail market demand. The equipment operations’ manufacturing strategy involves the implementation of appropriate levels of technology and automation to allow manufacturing processes to remain profitable at varying production levels. Operations are also designed to be flexible enough to accommodate the product design changes required to meet market conditions and changing customer requirements. Common manufacturing facilities and techniques are employed in the production of components for agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment.

In order to utilize manufacturing facilities and technology more effectively, the equipment operations pursue continuous improvements in manufacturing processes. These include steps to streamline manufacturing processes and enhance responsiveness to customers. John Deere’s flexible assembly lines can accommodate a wider product mix and deliver products in line with dealer and customer demand. Additionally, considerable effort is being directed to manufacturing cost reduction through process improvement and improvements in product design, advanced manufacturing technology, supply management and logistics, and environment, health, and safety management systems, as well as compensation incentives related to productivity and organizational structure. John Deere has experienced volatility in the price of many raw materials. John Deere has responded to cost pressures by implementing the cost-reduction measures described above and by increasing prices. Significant cost increases, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operating results. The equipment operations also pursue external sales of selected parts and components that can be manufactured and supplied to third parties on a competitive basis, including engines, power train components, and electronic components.

Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets

John Deere owns a significant number of patents, trade secrets, licenses, and trademarks related to John Deere products and services, and expects the number to grow as John Deere continues to pursue technological innovations. John Deere’s policy is to further its competitive position by filing patent applications in the U.S. and internationally to protect technology and improvements considered important to the business. John Deere believes that, in the aggregate, the rights under these patents and licenses are generally important to its operations and competitive position, but does not regard any of its businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or group of patents. However, certain John Deere trademarks, which contribute to John Deere’s identity and the recognition of its products and services, including but not limited to the “John Deere” mark, the leaping deer logo, the “Nothing Runs Like a Deere” slogan, the prefix “JD” associated with many products, and the green and yellow equipment colors, are an integral part of John Deere’s business, and their loss could have a material adverse effect on the Company. For additional information see Risk Factors–Intellectual Property Risks–The potential loss of John Deere intellectual property through trade secret theft, infringement of patents, trademark counterfeiting, or other loss of rights to exclusive use of John Deere intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on the Company. Infringement of the intellectual property rights of others by Deere may also have a material adverse effect on the Company.

Marketing

In the U.S. and Canada, the equipment operations distribute equipment and service parts through the following facilities: two agriculture and turf equipment sales and administration offices located in Olathe, Kansas and Cary, North Carolina and one sales branch located in Grimsby, Ontario; one construction, earthmoving, material handling, and forestry equipment sales and administration office located in Moline, Illinois and one sales branch located in Grimsby, Ontario; and one roadbuilding equipment

6

Table of Contents

sales, service, and administration office located in Nashville, Tennessee. In addition, the equipment operations operate a centralized parts distribution warehouse in coordination with ten regional parts depots and distribution centers in the U.S. and Canada.

Through these U.S. and Canadian facilities, John Deere markets products to approximately 1,981 dealer locations, most of which are independently owned and operated. Of these, approximately 1,544 sell agricultural equipment, while approximately 437 sell construction, earthmoving, material handling and/or forestry equipment. Nortrax owns some of the 437 dealer locations. Turf equipment is sold at most John Deere agricultural equipment locations, a few construction, earthmoving, material handling, and forestry equipment locations and about 358 turf-only locations, many of which also sell dissimilar lines of non-John Deere products. In addition, certain lawn and garden product lines are sold through The Home Depot and Lowe’s.

Outside the U.S. and Canada, John Deere agriculture and turf equipment is sold to distributors and dealers for resale in over 100 countries. Sales and administrative offices are located in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom. Turf equipment sales outside the U.S. and Canada occur primarily in Europe and Australia. Construction, earthmoving, material handling, and forestry equipment is sold to distributors and dealers primarily by sales offices located in Australia, Brazil, China, Finland, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. Some of these dealers are independently owned while John Deere owns others. Roadbuilding equipment is sold both directly to end customers as well as to independent distributors and dealers for resale. The Wirtgen Group operates company-owned sales and service subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Guinea, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lithuania, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom.

The equipment operations operate centralized parts distribution warehouses in Brazil, Germany, India, and Russia in coordination with regional parts depots and distribution centers in Argentina, Australia, China, Mexico, South Africa, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.

John Deere markets engines, power train, and electronic components worldwide through select sales branches or directly to regional and global original equipment manufacturers and independently owned engine distributors.

Raw Materials

John Deere purchases raw materials and some manufactured components and replacement parts for its equipment, engines, and other products from leading suppliers both domestically and internationally. These materials and components include a variety of steel products, steel and iron castings, forgings, plastics, electronics, and ready-to-assemble components made to certain specifications. John Deere also purchases various goods and services used in production, logistics, offices, and research and development processes. John Deere maintains strategic sourcing models to meet its production needs and build upon long-term supplier relationships. John Deere uses a variety of agreements with suppliers intended to drive innovation, ensure availability and delivery of industry-leading quality raw materials and components, manage costs on a globally competitive basis, protect John Deere’s intellectual property, and minimize other supply-related risks. Supply chain risks monitored by John Deere to minimize the likelihood of the supply base causing business disruption include supplier financial viability, capacity, business continuity, quality, delivery, cyber security, and weather-related events, including natural disasters. In fiscal 2020, some of John Deere’s operations were temporarily impacted by certain material or component shortages due to the COVID-19 pandemic (COVID).

Backlog Orders

The dollar amount of backlog orders for the agriculture and turf segment believed to be firm was approximately $8.1 billion at November 1, 2020, compared with $5.5 billion at November 3, 2019. The agriculture and turf backlog is generally highest in the second and third quarters due to seasonal buying trends in these industries. The dollar amount of backlog orders for the construction and forestry segment believed to be firm was approximately $2.1 billion at November 1, 2020, compared with $1.7 billion at November 3, 2019. Backlog orders for the agricultural and turf and construction and forestry segments include all orders deemed to be firm as of the referenced date.

Trade Accounts and Notes Receivable

Trade accounts and notes receivable arise primarily from sales of goods to independent dealers. Most trade receivables originated by the equipment operations are purchased by the financial services operations. The equipment operations compensate the financial services operations at approximate market rates of interest for these receivables. Additional information appears in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

7

Table of Contents

FINANCIAL SERVICES

U.S. and Canada. The financial services segment primarily provides and administers financing for retail purchases from John Deere dealers of new equipment manufactured by John Deere’s agriculture and turf and construction and forestry segments and used equipment taken in trade for this equipment.

The Company and John Deere Construction & Forestry Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) are referred to as the “sales companies.” John Deere Capital Corporation (Capital Corporation), a U.S. financial services subsidiary, generally purchases retail installment sales and loan contracts (retail notes) from the sales companies. These retail notes are acquired by the sales companies through John Deere retail dealers in the U.S. John Deere Financial Inc., a Canadian financial services subsidiary, purchases and finances retail notes acquired by John Deere Canada ULC, the Company’s Canadian sales branch. The terms of retail notes and the basis on which the financial services operations acquire retail notes from the sales companies are governed by agreements with the sales companies. The financial services segment also finances and services revolving charge accounts, in most cases acquired from and offered through merchants in the agriculture and turf and construction and forestry markets (revolving charge accounts). Additionally, the financial services operations provide wholesale financing for inventories of John Deere agriculture and turf equipment and construction and forestry equipment owned by dealers of those products (wholesale notes). The various financing options offered by the financial services operations are designed to enhance sales of John Deere products and generate financing income for the financial services operations. In the U.S. and Canada, certain subsidiaries included in the financial services segment offer extended equipment warranties.

Retail notes acquired by the sales companies are immediately sold to the financial services operations. The equipment operations are the financial services operations’ major source of business, but many retail purchasers of John Deere products finance their purchases outside the John Deere organization through a variety of sources, including commercial banks and finance and leasing companies.

The financial services operations offer retail leases to equipment users in the U.S. A small number of leases are executed with units of local government. Leases are usually written for periods of less than one year to seven years, and typically contain an option permitting the customer to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease term. Retail leases are also offered in a generally similar manner to customers in Canada through John Deere Financial Inc. and John Deere Canada ULC.

The financial services operations’ terms for financing equipment retail sales (other than smaller items financed with unsecured revolving charge accounts) generally provide for retention of a security interest in the equipment financed. The financial services operations’ guidelines for minimum down payments, which vary with the types of equipment and repayment provisions, are generally 0 percent to 20 percent of the purchase price. Finance charges are sometimes waived for specified periods or reduced on certain John Deere products sold or leased in advance of the season of use or in other sales promotions. The financial services operations generally receive compensation from the sales companies at approximate market interest rates for periods during which finance charges are waived or reduced on the retail notes or leases. The cost is accounted for as a deduction in arriving at net sales by the equipment operations.

The Company has an agreement with Capital Corporation to make payments to Capital Corporation such that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges is not less than 1.05 to 1 for any fiscal quarter. The Company has also committed to continue to own, directly or through one or more wholly-owned subsidiaries, at least 51 percent of the voting shares of capital stock of Capital Corporation and to maintain Capital Corporation’s consolidated tangible net worth at not less than $50 million. The Company’s obligations to make payments to Capital Corporation under the agreement are independent of whether Capital Corporation is in default on its indebtedness, obligations or other liabilities. Further, the Company’s obligations under the agreement are not measured by the amount of Capital Corporation’s indebtedness, obligations, or other liabilities. The Company’s obligations to make payments under this agreement are expressly stated not to be a guaranty of any specific indebtedness, obligation or liability of Capital Corporation and are enforceable only by or in the name of Capital Corporation. The Company was in compliance with all of its obligations under this agreement as of November 1, 2020, and no payments were required under this agreement in fiscal 2020 or 2019.

Outside the U.S. and Canada. The financial services operations also offer financing, primarily for John Deere products, in Australia, Brazil, China, India, New Zealand, Russia, Thailand, and in several other countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America. In certain areas, financing is offered through cooperation agreements or joint ventures. The manner in which the financial services operations offer financing in these countries is affected by a variety of country-specific laws, regulations, and customs, including those governing property rights and debtor obligations, that are subject to change and that may introduce greater risk to the financial services operations.

The financial services operations also offer to select customers and dealers credit enhanced international export financing for the purchase of John Deere products.

Additional information on the financial services operations appears on pages 24 – 27 and 31 – 32.

8

Table of Contents

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

John Deere is subject to a wide variety of local, state, and federal environmental laws and regulations in the U.S., as well as the environmental laws and regulations of other countries in which John Deere conducts business. John Deere strives to comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, failure to comply with these regulations could lead to fines and other penalties. John Deere is involved in the evaluation and clean-up of a limited number of sites but does not expect that these matters or other expenses or liabilities John Deere may incur in connection with any noncompliance with environmental laws or regulations or the cleanup of any additional properties, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or competitive position of John Deere. With respect to acquired properties and businesses or properties and businesses acquired in the future, John Deere conducts due diligence into potential exposure to environmental liabilities, but cannot be certain that it has identified or will identify all adverse environmental conditions. Compliance with these laws and regulations has added, and will continue to add, to the cost of John Deere’s products. The Company does not expect to incur material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities during fiscal 2021.

The European Union’s Stage V Regulation, parts of which became effective in 2019 and 2020, applies to non-road diesel engines across various power categories for machines used in construction, agriculture, materials handling, industrial use and generator applications. Governmental agencies throughout the world are enacting similar laws to reduce off-road engine emissions, including India’s Bharat Stage IV Regulation that will become effective in 2021. These standards continue the reduction of particulate and NOx emissions. John Deere has achieved and plans to continue to achieve compliance with these regulations through significant investments in the development of new engine technologies and after-treatment systems. Compliance with emissions regulations has added and will continue to add to the cost of John Deere’s products.

Governments are also implementing laws regulating products across their life cycle, including raw material sourcing and the storage, distribution, sale, use, and disposal of products at their end-of-life.  These laws and regulations include green chemistry, right-to-know, restriction of hazardous substances, and product take-back laws.

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

John Deere is subject to a wide variety of local, state, and federal laws and regulations in the countries where it conducts business. Compliance with these laws and regulations often requires the dedication of time and effort of employees, as well as financial resources. In fiscal 2020, compliance with the regulations applicable to John Deere did not have a material effect on John Deere’s capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. Additional information about the impact of government regulations on John Deere’s business is included in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” under the headings Geopolitical Uncertainties; Data Security and Privacy; Environmental, Climate and Weather Risks; and Bribery and Corruption Risks.

HUMAN CAPITAL

John Deere’s employees, its human capital, are guided by the company’s higher purpose: We run so life can leap forward. The employees are further guided by the company’s code of business conduct, helping them to uphold and strengthen the standards of honor and integrity that have defined John Deere since its founding. In their everyday work, employees embody John Deere’s core values of integrity, quality, commitment and innovation, and in doing so, directly contribute to the company’s long-standing character and reputation.

Employees take pride in their work and value learning from one another. While they hold many values in common, John Deere employees appreciate different perspectives and embrace the opportunity to work with those of diverse backgrounds. John Deere encourages employees to become involved in their communities and many employees do contribute their time and talents to community efforts. John Deere’s employees contribute to the company’s efforts to provide a safe and healthy workplace for all, especially through 2020.

At November 1, 2020, John Deere had approximately 69,600 employees, including approximately 27,500 employees in the U.S. and Canada. John Deere also retains consultants, independent contractors, and temporary and part-time workers. Unions are certified as bargaining agents for approximately 84 percent of John Deere’s U.S. production and maintenance employees. Approximately 8,740 of John Deere’s active U.S. production and maintenance workers are covered by a collective bargaining agreement with the United Auto Workers (UAW), with an expiration date of October 1, 2021. A small number of U.S. production employees are represented by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM). Unions also represent the majority of employees at John Deere manufacturing facilities outside the U.S.


9

Table of Contents

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Following are the names and ages of the executive officers of the Company, their positions with the Company and summaries of their backgrounds and business experience. All executive officers are elected or appointed by the Board of Directors and hold office until the annual meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in each year.











Name, age and office (at December 1, 2020), and year elected to office


Principal occupation during last
five years other than office
of the Company currently held

John C. May


51


Chairman and Chief Executive Officer



2020


2019 Chief Executive Officer and President, 2019 President and Chief Operating Officer, 2018 – 2019 President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Global Harvesting and Turf Platforms, Ag Solutions Americas and Australia, 2012 – 2018 President, Agricultural Solutions & Chief Information Officer


Ryan D. Campbell


46


Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


2019


2018 Deputy Financial Officer, 2017 Vice President and Comptroller, 2016 Deputy Comptroller, 2014 – 2015 Director of Finance, Agricultural Division Regions 1 & 2 and Global Tractors


Marc A. Howze


57


Group President, Lifecycle Solutions & Chief Administrative Officer


2020


2016 – 2020 Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer, 2012 – 2016 Vice President, Global Human Resources & Employee Communications


Mary K.W. Jones


52


Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Public Affairs


2019


2013 – 2019 Senior Vice President and General Counsel


Rajesh Kalathur


52


President, John Deere Financial, and Chief Information Officer


2019


2018 – 2019 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Information Officer, 2012 – 2018 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Cory J. Reed


50


President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Production & Precision Ag, Sales & Marketing Regions of the Americas and Australia


2020


2019 – 2020 President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Americas and Australia, Global Harvesting and Turf Platforms, Agricultural Solutions, 2016 – 2019 President, John Deere Financial, 2013 – 2016 Senior Vice President, Intelligent Solutions Group


John H. Stone


50


President, Worldwide Construction & Forestry and Power Systems



2020


2016 – 2020 Senior Vice President, Intelligent Solutions Group, 2015 Vice President, Corporate Strategy


Markwart von Pentz


57


President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division, Small Ag & Turf, Sales & Marketing Regions of Europe, CIS, Asia and Africa


2020


2019 – 2020 President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division Tractor and Hay & Forage, Regions 1 & 2, and Advanced Engineering, 2018 – 2019 President, Worldwide Agriculture & Turf Division Global Tractor and Hay & Forage Platforms, Europe, CIS, Asia, Africa, 2012 – 2018 President, Agriculture & Turf Division-Europe, Asia, Africa, and Global Tractor Platform


