We are among the largest discount retailers in the United States by number of stores, with 17,266 stores located in 46 states as of February 26, 2021, with the greatest concentration of stores in the southern, southwestern, midwestern and eastern United States. We offer a broad selection of merchandise, including consumable items, seasonal items, home products and apparel. Our merchandise includes national brands from leading manufacturers, as well as our own private brand selections with prices at substantial discounts to national brands. We offer our customers these national brand and private brand products at everyday low prices (typically $10 or less) in our convenient small-box locations.


Our History


J.L. Turner founded our Company in 1939 as J.L. Turner and Son, Wholesale. We were incorporated as a Kentucky corporation under the name J.L. Turner & Son, Inc. in 1955, when we opened our first Dollar General store. We changed our name to Dollar General Corporation in 1968 and reincorporated in 1998 as a Tennessee corporation. Our common stock was publicly traded from 1968 until July 2007, when we merged with an entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., or KKR. In November 2009 our common stock again became publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “DG”, and in December 2013 the entity controlled by investment funds affiliated with KKR sold its remaining shares of our common stock.


COVID-19 Pandemic


Throughout 2020, the COVID-19 (coronavirus) pandemic resulted in widespread and continuing impacts on the global economy and has affected our business, as well as our customers, suppliers, and other business partners. In early March 2020, we began seeing heightened demand from customers, particularly for consumable products such as paper, food, and cleaning products. Shortly thereafter, we also saw a significant increase in demand for many non-consumable products, including home, seasonal and apparel, resulting in a significant overall mix shift into non-consumable categories. We have also seen a shift in customer behavior toward trip consolidation, as customers are shopping our stores less frequently than in the same period in 2019, but purchased a larger average basket amount. To address the increased demand, we increased our hiring of new store associates and worked with suppliers to incorporate new items in stores to meet the essential needs of customers while addressing certain product shortages and vendor allocation limitations. We incurred significant incremental expenses related to the pandemic, including appreciation bonuses for retail, distribution and transportation employees, as well as for health and safety measures. We expect to continue to be affected, although the extent and duration is unknown, by the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on the economy in a variety of ways, potentially including changing consumer demand (whether higher or lower) overall and in certain product categories, supply chain interruptions, increased distribution and transportation costs, and increased costs in an effort to maintain safe work and shopping environments.


Our Business Model


Our long history of profitable growth is founded on a commitment to a relatively simple business model: providing a broad base of customers with their basic everyday and household needs, supplemented with a variety of general merchandise items, at everyday low prices in conveniently located, small-box stores. We continually evaluate the needs and demands of our customers and modify our merchandise selections and pricing accordingly, while remaining focused on increasing profitability, cash generation and returns for our shareholders.


Our long-term operating priorities are: 1) driving profitable sales growth, 2) capturing growth opportunities, 3) enhancing our position as a low-cost operator, and 4) investing in our diverse teams through development, empowerment and inclusion.  For more information on these operating priorities, see the “Executive 

4

Table of Contents

Overview” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 


In 2020, we achieved our 31st consecutive year of positive same-store sales growth. We believe that this growth, which has taken place in a variety of economic conditions, is a result of our compelling value and convenience proposition, although no assurances can be given that we will continue to achieve positive same-store sales growth in any given year and we currently believe it is unlikely that we will achieve positive same-store sales growth in 2021 as a result of the unusually high sales results we experienced in 2020.


Compelling Value and Convenience Proposition.  Our ability to deliver highly competitive prices in convenient locations and our easy “in and out” shopping format create a compelling shopping experience that we believe distinguishes us from other discount retailers as well as convenience, drug, grocery, online and mass merchant retailers. Our slogan “Save time. Save money. Every day!”® summarizes our appeal to customers. We believe our ability to effectively deliver both value and convenience allows us to succeed in small markets with limited shopping alternatives, as well as in larger and more competitive markets. Our value and convenience proposition is evidenced by the following attributes of our business model:


●	Everyday Low Prices on Quality Merchandise.  Our research indicates that we offer a price advantage over most food and drug retailers and that our prices are competitive with even the largest discount retailers. Our ability to offer everyday low prices on quality merchandise is supported by our low-cost operating structure and our strategy to maintain a limited number of items per merchandise category, which we believe helps us maintain strong purchasing power. We offer nationally advertised brands at these everyday low prices in addition to offering our own private brands at substantially lower prices.

●	Convenient Locations.  Our stores are conveniently located in a variety of rural, suburban and urban communities. We seek to locate our stores in close proximity to our customers, which helps drive customer loyalty and trip frequency and makes us an attractive alternative to large discount and other large-box retail and grocery stores.

●	Time-Saving Shopping Experience.  We strive to provide customers with a highly convenient, easy to navigate shopping experience. Our small-box stores make it easier to get in and out quickly. Our product offering includes most necessities, such as basic packaged and refrigerated or frozen food and dairy products, cleaning supplies, paper products, health and beauty care items, greeting cards and other stationery items, basic apparel, housewares, hardware and automotive supplies, among others. Our convenient hours and broad merchandise offering allow our customers to fulfill their requirements for basic goods and minimize their need to shop elsewhere.

Substantial Growth Opportunities.  We believe we have substantial long-term growth potential in the U.S., and we have identified significant opportunities to add new stores in both existing and new markets. In addition, we have opportunities to relocate or remodel locations within our existing store base to better serve our customers. Our attractive store economics, including a relatively low initial investment and simple, low-cost operating model, and our variety of store formats have allowed us to grow our store base to current levels and provide us significant opportunities to continue our profitable store growth strategy.


Our Merchandise


We offer a focused assortment of everyday necessities, which we believe helps to drive frequent customer visits, and key items in a broad range of general merchandise categories. Our product assortment provides the opportunity for our customers to address most of their basic shopping needs with one trip. We offer a wide selection of nationally advertised brands from leading manufacturers. Additionally, our private brand products offer even greater value with options to purchase both products that are of comparable quality to national brands as well as opening price point items, each at substantial discounts to the national brands.


5

Table of Contents

Consumables is our largest merchandise category and includes paper and cleaning products (such as paper towels, bath tissue, paper dinnerware, trash and storage bags, disinfectants, and laundry); packaged food (such as cereals, canned soups and vegetables, condiments, spices, sugar and flour); perishables (such as milk, eggs, bread, refrigerated and frozen food, beer and wine); snacks (such as candy, cookies, crackers, salty snacks and carbonated beverages); health and beauty (such as over-the-counter medicines and personal care products including soap, body wash, shampoo, cosmetics, dental hygiene and foot care products); pet (such as pet supplies and pet food); and tobacco products.


Seasonal products include holiday items, toys, batteries, small electronics, greeting cards, stationery, prepaid phones and accessories, gardening supplies, hardware, automotive and home office supplies.


Home products include kitchen supplies, cookware, small appliances, light bulbs, storage containers, frames, candles, craft supplies and kitchen, bed and bath soft goods.


Apparel includes casual everyday apparel for infants, toddlers, girls, boys, women and men, as well as socks, underwear, disposable diapers, shoes and accessories.


The percentage of net sales of each of our four categories of merchandise for the fiscal years indicated below was as follows:











    

2020

    

2019

    

2018

 

Consumables

 

 76.8

%  

 78.0

%  

 77.5

%

Seasonal

 

 12.1

%  

 11.7

%  

 11.9

%

Home products

 

 6.5

%  

 5.8

%  

 5.9

%

Apparel

 

 4.6

%  

 4.5

%  

 4.7

%


Our seasonal and home products categories typically account for the highest gross profit margins, and the consumables category typically accounts for the lowest gross profit margin.


The Dollar General Store


The typical Dollar General store is operated by a store manager, one or more assistant store managers, and three or more sales associates. Our stores generally feature a low-cost, no frills building with limited maintenance capital, low operating costs, and a focused merchandise offering within a broad range of categories, allowing us to deliver low retail prices while generating strong cash flows and capital investment returns. Our stores average approximately 7,400 square feet of selling space, and approximately 75% of our stores are located in towns of 20,000 or fewer people. We generally have had good success in locating suitable store sites in the past, and we believe that there is ample opportunity for new store growth in existing and new markets. In addition, we believe we have significant opportunities available for our relocation and remodel programs.


Our store growth over the past three years is summarized in the following table:















    

Stores at

    


    


    

Net

    


 



Beginning


Stores


Stores


Store


Stores at

 

Year


of Year


Opened


Closed


Increase


End of Year

 

2018

 

 14,534

 

 900

 

 64

 

 836

 

 15,370


2019

 

 15,370

 

 975

 

 67

 

 908

 

 16,278


2020

 

 16,278

 

 1,000

 

 101

 

 899

 

 17,177



Our Customers


Our customers seek value and convenience. Depending on their financial situation and geographic proximity, customers’ reliance on Dollar General varies from fill-in shopping, to making periodic trips to stock up on household items, to making weekly or more frequent trips to meet most essential needs. We generally locate our stores and plan our merchandise selections to best serve the needs of our core customers, the low and fixed income households often underserved by other retailers, and we are focused on helping them make the most of their

6

Table of Contents

spending dollars. At the same time, however, Dollar General shoppers from a wide range of income brackets and life stages appreciate our quality merchandise as well as our attractive value and convenience proposition.


Our Suppliers


We purchase merchandise from a wide variety of suppliers and maintain direct buying relationships with many producers of national brand merchandise. Despite our broad offering, we maintain only a limited number of items per category, allowing us to keep our average costs low. Our three largest suppliers accounted for approximately 9%, 8%, and 8%, respectively, of our purchases in 2020. Our private brands come from a wide variety of suppliers. We directly imported approximately 5% of our purchases at cost in 2020.


In 2020, COVID-19 caused disruptions in our supply chain, making it more difficult to obtain certain products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand and increasing distribution and transportation costs. We anticipate these COVID-19 effects to persist to some degree through at least the first half of 2021, although the ultimate extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects are unknown.  Prior to 2020, we have generally been able to obtain sufficient quantities of core merchandise and in cases where one or more of our current sources of supply became unavailable, we generally have been able to obtain alternative sources. Alternative sources could increase our merchandise costs and supply chain lead time and expenses, result in a temporary reduction in store inventory levels, reduce our selection, or reduce the quality of our merchandise, and an inability to obtain alternative sources could adversely affect our sales.


Distribution and Transportation


Our stores are currently supported by distribution centers for both refrigerated and non-refrigerated merchandise located strategically throughout our geographic footprint. We lease additional temporary warehouse space as necessary to support our distribution needs. In addition to our traditional distribution centers, we now operate multiple temperature-controlled distribution facilities in support of “DG Fresh”, our strategic, multi-phased shift to self-distribution of frozen and refrigerated goods, such as dairy, deli and frozen products. We regularly analyze and rebalance the network to ensure that it remains efficient and provides the service levels our stores require. See “—Properties” below for additional information pertaining to our distribution centers.


Most of our merchandise flows through our distribution centers and is delivered to our stores by our private fleet and by third-party trucking firms, utilizing our trailers. In addition, vendors or third-party distributors deliver or ship certain food items and other merchandise directly to our stores.


Seasonality


The nature of our business is somewhat seasonal. Generally, our operating profit has been greater in the fourth quarter, which includes the Christmas selling season, as compared with operating profit in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year. In addition, our quarterly results can be affected by the timing of certain holidays, new store openings, remodels, relocations and store closings. Consumer behavior driven by the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a departure from seasonal norms we have experienced in recent years and may continue to disrupt the historical quarterly cadence of our results of operations for an unknown period of time.


Our Competition


We operate in the basic discount consumer goods market, which is highly competitive with respect to price, customers, store location, merchandise quality, assortment and presentation, service offerings, in-stock consistency, customer service, promotional activity, employees, and market share. We compete with discount stores and many other retailers, including mass merchandise, warehouse club, grocery, drug, convenience, variety, online, and certain specialty stores. These other retail companies operate stores in many of the areas where we operate, and many of them engage in extensive advertising and marketing efforts. Our direct competitors include Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Big Lots, 99 Cents Only and various local, independent operators, as well as Walmart, Target, Kroger, Aldi, Walgreens, CVS, and Rite Aid, among others. Certain of our competitors have greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to secure better arrangements from suppliers than we

7

Table of Contents

can. Competition is intense and we believe it will continue to be so, with certain competitors reducing their store locations while others move into or increase their presence in our geographic and product markets and increase the availability of mobile, web-based and other digital technology to facilitate a more convenient and competitive customer online and in-store shopping experience.


We believe that we differentiate ourselves from other forms of retailing by offering consistently low prices in a convenient, small-store format. We are able to maintain competitive prices due in part to our low-cost operating structure and the relatively limited assortment of products offered. Purchasing large volumes of merchandise within our focused assortment in each merchandise category allows us to keep our average product costs low, contributing to our ability to offer competitive everyday low prices to our customers. See “—Our Business Model” above for further discussion of our competitive situation.


Our Intellectual Property


We own marks that are registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and are protected under applicable intellectual property laws, including, without limitation, Dollar General®, DG®, Clover Valley®,  and trueliving® along with variations and formatives of these trademarks. We attempt to obtain registration of our trademarks whenever practicable and to pursue vigorously any infringement of those marks. Our trademark registrations have various expiration dates; however, assuming that the trademark registrations are properly renewed, they have a perpetual duration. We also hold an exclusive license to the Rexall brand through at least March 5, 2029 and the Believe Beauty brand through at least March 23, 2022.


Human Capital Resources


At Dollar General, a foundational element in how we operate is exemplified in our fourth operating priority – Investing in our diverse teams through development, empowerment and inclusion.  Building on our core value of respecting the dignity and differences of others, our goal is to create a work environment where each employee is encouraged and empowered to bring their unique perspective and voice to work each day. Based on a talent philosophy of “Attract, Develop, and Retain”, whether an individual works in a store, a distribution center, our store support center or our international sourcing offices, over the last 80+ years, we have helped millions of individuals start and progress in their careers, providing employees with numerous opportunities to gain new skills and develop their talents, supported by our award-winning training and development programs. 


Attract


We seek to provide market competitive compensation and benefits packages that attract talent to the organization and then retain and incent them for performance. Although eligibility for and the level of benefits vary depending on the employee’s full-time or part-time status, compensation level, date of hire, and/or length of service, the broad range of benefits we provide or make available may include: medical, prescription, telemedicine, dental and vision plans; flexible spending accounts; disability insurance; 401(k) plan; paid vacation; employee assistance program with access to legal assistance and counseling; healthy lifestyle and disease management programs; a broad range of discounts for products and services; parental leave; adoption assistance; and service award recognition. To help measure the success of our overall employee compensation and benefits programs, we monitor employee applicant flow and staffing levels across the organization, as well as employee turnover, particularly at the store manager level.


Develop


As a testament to our employee development efforts, in February 2021, we were inducted into Training magazine’s Hall of Fame, following two consecutive years as the magazine’s top training and development program and rounding out 10 consecutive years among its Top 100 list. In 2020, we estimate we invested nearly three million training hours in our employees to promote their education and development.


Our internal promotion rate helps us measure the success of our development programs.  As of February 26, 2021, we employed approximately 158,000 full-time and part-time employees, including divisional and regional 

8

Table of Contents

managers, district managers, store managers, other store personnel and distribution center and administrative personnel. As of the end of 2020, approximately 73% of store managers and thousands of additional employees, including several members of our senior leadership, have been promoted from within our organization.


Retain


To ensure we are creating an environment where our employees feel respected, safe, empowered, and  motivated, we regularly monitor retention and engagement levels across the organization through a variety of means, working to understand what is important to our workforce and how we can best continue to meet their evolving needs.  


Compliance with Governmental Regulations


Our operations are subject to the applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules, and regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate or conduct business. These laws, rules and regulations relate to, among other things, the sale of products, including without limitation product and food safety, marketing and labeling; information security and privacy; labor and employment; employee wages and benefits; health and safety; real property; public accommodations; anti-bribery; financial reporting and disclosure; antitrust and fair competition; anti money laundering; transportation; imports and customs; intellectual property; taxes; and environmental compliance.


Although we routinely incur significant costs in complying with the laws and regulations applicable to the Company, and we can make no guarantees that future such costs will not be material, to date, compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Many of our entry-level store employees are paid at rates in line with the applicable minimum wage, and consequently, in certain situations, increases to such wage rates have increased our labor costs. If federal, state and/or local minimum wage rates were to increase significantly and/or rapidly, compliance with such increases could adversely affect our earnings. Additionally, if significant changes in the corporate tax rate occur in the future, such change could adversely affect our overall effective tax rate and earnings. See “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A for additional information regarding government regulations that could impact our business.


Available Information


Our Internet website address is www.dollargeneral.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Form 10-K. We file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, registration statements and other documents. These documents are available free of charge to investors on or through the Investor Information section of our website (https://investor.dollargeneral.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as Dollar General, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov.


