Overview

Dover Corporation is a diversified global manufacturer and solutions provider delivering innovative equipment and components, consumable supplies, aftermarket parts, software and digital solutions and support services through five operating segments: Engineered Products, Fueling Solutions, Imaging & Identification, Pumps & Process Solutions, and Refrigeration & Food Equipment. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references herein to "Dover," "the Company," and words such as "we," "us," or "our" include Dover Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. Dover was incorporated in 1947 in the State of Delaware and became a publicly traded company in 1955. Dover is headquartered in Downers Grove, Illinois and currently employs approximately 23,000 people worldwide.

Dover's five segments are structured around businesses with similar business models, go-to-market strategies and manufacturing practices. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns Dover’s operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities, and provides transparency about our performance to external stakeholders. Dover's five operating and reportable segments are as follows:

•Our Engineered Products segment is a provider of a wide range of products, software and services that have broad customer applications across a number of markets, including aftermarket vehicle service, solid waste handling, industrial automation, aerospace and defense, industrial winch and hoist, and fluid dispensing.

•Our Fueling Solutions segment is focused on providing components, equipment, and software and service solutions enabling safe transport of fuels and other hazardous fluids along the supply chain, as well as the safe and efficient operation of retail fueling and vehicle wash establishments.

•Our Imaging & Identification segment supplies precision marking and coding, product traceability and digital textile printing equipment, as well as related consumables, software and services.

•Our Pumps & Process Solutions segment manufactures specialty pumps, fluid handling components, plastics and polymer processing equipment, single use pumps, flow meters and connectors, and highly engineered components for rotating and reciprocating machines.

•Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment is a provider of innovative and energy-efficient equipment and systems that serve the commercial refrigeration, heating and cooling and food equipment markets.

Spin-off of Energy Businesses

On May 9, 2018, we completed the spin-off of Apergy Corporation ("Apergy") to our shareholders. Apergy consists of the upstream energy businesses previously included in our former Energy segment. The transaction was completed through the pro rata distribution of 100% of the common stock of Apergy to Dover's shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 30, 2018. Each Dover shareholder received one share of Apergy common stock for every two shares of Dover common stock held as of the record date. Apergy changed its name to ChampionX Corporation on June 3, 2020. For more details, see Note 2 — Spin-off of Apergy Corporation in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

COVID-19

On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") a pandemic. The COVID-19 outbreak and associated counter-acting measures implemented by governments around the world, as well as increased business uncertainty, had an adverse impact on our financial results beginning late in the first quarter. To help mitigate the financial impact, we executed temporary cost savings measures, reduced our capital spending for the year, initiated restructuring actions and proactively managed our working capital. Activity in many of the end-markets we serve has sequentially improved since the second quarter of 2020 and we expect that improvement trend to continue for most of our businesses in 2021, though uncertainty remains. Despite the impact of COVID-19 to our business in 2020, we remained committed to our management philosophy, company goals and our business strategy. For more
4
Table of Contents
details on the impact of COVID-19 to our business see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis in this Form 10-K.

Management Philosophy

Dover is committed to steadily creating shareholder value through a combination of sustained long-term profitable growth, operational excellence, superior free cash flow generation and productive capital re-deployment while adhering to a conservative financial policy. Dover seeks to be a leader in a diverse set of growing markets where customers are loyal to trusted partners and suppliers, and value product performance and differentiation driven by superior engineering, manufacturing precision, total solution development and excellent supply chain performance. Our businesses are long-time leaders in their respective markets and are known for their innovation, engineering capability and customer service excellence. We aim to continue growing our businesses from this strong foundation. Our operating structure of five business segments allows for differentiated acquisition focus consistent with our portfolio and capital allocation priorities. We believe our business segment structure also presents opportunities to identify and capture operating synergies, such as global sourcing and supply chain integration, shared services, and manufacturing practices, and further advances the development of our executive talent. Our executive management team sets strategic direction, initiatives and goals, provides oversight of strategy execution and achievement of these goals for our business segments, and with oversight from our Board of Directors, makes capital allocation decisions, including with respect to organic investment initiatives, major capital projects, acquisitions and the return of capital to our shareholders.

We foster an operating culture with high ethical and performance standards that values accountability, rigor, trust, inclusion, respect and open communications, designed to allow individual growth and operational effectiveness. We are also committed to creating sustainable business practices that protect the environment, and through the development of products that help our customers meet their sustainability goals.

Company Goals

We are committed to driving superior shareholder returns through three key tenets of our corporate strategy. First, we are committed to achieving organic sales growth above that of gross domestic product (GDP+ or 3% to 5% annually on average) over a long-term business cycle, absent prolonged adverse economic conditions, complemented by growth through strategic acquisitions. Second, we continue to focus on improving returns on capital, as well as segment and corporate earnings margin by enhancing our operational capabilities and making investments across the organization in software and digital applications, operations management, information technology ("IT"), shared services (including Dover Business Services and the India Innovation Center), and talent. We also focus on continuous, effective cost management and productivity initiatives, such as automation and digitally-supported manufacturing, supply chain optimization, restructuring, improved footprint utilization, strategic pricing and portfolio management. Third, we aim to generate strong and growing free cash flow and earnings per share through strong earnings performance, productivity improvements and active working capital management. Dover prioritizes deploying free cash flow towards high-return and high-confidence organic reinvestments aimed at growing, improving and strengthening our businesses, as well as through inorganic investments that synergistically enhance the quality of our portfolio. Dover’s value creation strategy is supported by a financial policy that includes a prudent approach to financial leverage, and a disciplined approach to capital allocation that allows for a balance between reinvestment and return of capital to shareholders through growing dividends and opportunistic share repurchases. We support achievement of these goals by (1) aligning management compensation with strategic and financial objectives, (2) actively managing our portfolio to increase enterprise scale, improve business mix over time, and pursue acquisitions that fit the characteristics of an ideal Dover business and (3) investing in talent development programs.

Characteristics of a Dover Business

Our businesses generally operate in strategically attractive niche industrial markets with supportive long-term growth trends, favorable supply and demand landscapes, mature and incrementally improving technologies and highly loyal customers, suppliers or channel partners. Our businesses have consistently enjoyed a customer base that chooses products primarily based on performance. In many instances, our businesses produce critical equipment or components to a larger system, where value-in-use and costs and risks of switching far exceed the cost of the product itself. Our products tend to have meaningful replacement, consumable or aftermarket demand due, in part, to a large installed base because they play a specialized role in customer applications. Recurring demand, which includes parts, consumables, services and software, represents approximately 30% of our revenue. Our businesses increasingly complement our component or equipment offerings with
5
Table of Contents
digital solutions (such as connected products, sensors and software) that create new sources of value to our customers and allow Dover businesses to drive growth and increase relevance with our customers. Dover businesses also exhibit attractive financial profiles, characterized by predictable, stable revenue, low capital intensity, strong cash-flow and sustainable returns on invested capital well in excess of our cost of capital.

Business Strategy

To achieve our stated goals, we are focused on executing the following pillars of Dover’s business strategy:

Capturing growth potential in our end-markets and adjacencies

Dover’s business segments are focused on building enduring competitive advantages and leadership positions in markets that we believe are positioned for sustained future growth. We believe that our businesses are among the top suppliers in most markets and niches that we serve (as defined by customer applications, geographies or products), which positions us well to capture future growth. We capitalize on our engineering, technology and design expertise and maintain an intense focus on meeting the needs of our customers and adding significant, and often new, value to their operations through superior product performance, safety and reliability and a commitment to aftermarket support. We cultivate and maintain an entrepreneurial culture and continuously innovate to address our customers’ needs to help them win in the markets they serve.

In particular, our businesses are well-positioned to capitalize on growing industrial manufacturing and trade volumes, adoption of digital technologies, increasing requirements for sustainability, safety, energy efficiency and consumer product safety, and growth of the middle class and consumption in emerging economies. Our Engineered Products segment is capitalizing on secular growth in waste generation and the increasing sophistication and automation of waste collection operations and increasing car parc, car age and miles driven, as well as increasing digitization and sensorization of modern vehicles. Our Fueling Solutions segment benefits from the worldwide growth in safety and compliance regulations, new infrastructure build-out in emerging economies, consolidation in the convenience retail sector, increased sophistication and digitization of convenience stores and fuel retailing, as well as a secular growth in automated vehicle wash systems and solutions (over manual and do-it-yourself washing). Our Imaging & Identification segment leverages its unique product offering containing equipment, consumables, software and services to address market needs and requirements including conversion to digital textile printing, increased demand for product traceability and brand protection, and consumer product safety. Our Pumps & Process Solutions segment is focused on capturing growth in its installed base and growing sophistication of fluid transfer and rotating machinery components within the chemical, plastics and polymer, industrial, mid and downstream oil & gas, biopharma and hygienic markets as well as globalizing brands across geographies while expanding sales channels and engineering support. Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment is responding to our customers’ demand for increased energy efficiency and sustainability in food retail merchandising solutions, as well as increasing demand for sustainable heating and cooling solutions and growing global demand for aluminum beverage cans.

We aim to grow by making organic investments in research and development, developing new products and technologies, improving digital capabilities, expanding our geographic coverage, and pursuing disciplined strategic acquisitions that will enhance our portfolio and position Dover for long-term growth. We continually evaluate how our assets and capabilities can position Dover to grow in markets adjacent to our core businesses (for example, new applications, geographies, product segments or adjacent technologies) where Dover can be advantaged.

In addition to product innovation, we plan to grow by developing digital technologies. Our Boston-based Dover Digital Labs serves as the company-wide hub for our digital initiative. We have continued to invest in this facility and our team of software developers, data scientists, and product managers to enhance our digital capability. The Digital Labs team is driving digital transformation across our businesses along the following three areas: (i) enhancing the customer experience through more efficient and streamlined digital customer interfaces that make it easy to do business with Dover companies; (ii) developing connected software and machine learning augmented solutions built to integrate and work with Dover's core equipment and component offerings in our end-markets; and (iii) driving increased efficiency, safety and quality in our manufacturing operations by employing cutting-edge automation and “digital factory” solutions. We believe that the Digital Labs center enhances the effectiveness of our products and fuels our commercial growth strategy. By leveraging a central resource for Industrial Internet of Things ("IIoT") and connected product initiatives, we are able to leverage efficiency of support infrastructure, improve product security and offer better efficiency in software and sensor integration engineering to keep our projects cost-competitive.
6
Table of Contents

Improving profitability and return on invested capital

We are committed to generating sustainable returns on invested capital well above the cost of capital across all of our businesses. We continually evaluate and pursue opportunities to improve efficiency, margin and return on capital. We are intensely focused on driving operational excellence across our businesses. We have implemented numerous productivity initiatives to maximize our efficiency, such as supply chain integration, shared services, lean manufacturing principles and production automation, as well as workplace safety initiatives to help ensure the health and welfare of our employees. Our businesses place a strong emphasis on continual product quality improvement and new product development to better serve customers and to facilitate expansion into new products and geographic markets.

We also focus on our margin expansion program, designed to reduce our selling, general and administrative cost base and rationalize our manufacturing and supply chain footprint across the portfolio. We continually expand initiatives to extract productivity gains across the businesses and realize savings. Our margin expansion initiatives are focused on four core enterprise capabilities: (1) leverage our Digital Labs team to enhance our digital capabilities, (2) improve utilization and optimization of our manufacturing footprint through centralized resources and investment, (3) further centralize shared services under Dover Business Services, and (4) invest in our India Innovation Center shared services.

Our Dover Digital Labs consists of a team of approximately 100 software developers, data scientists and product managers who provide digital capabilities to enhance the customer experience, develop connected products, and drive automation and efficiency inside our factories through digital technologies and in our business processes. Our Dover Digital leadership has built common platforms which we have begun deploying on customer facing applications to make it easier to find, configure, buy and obtain service on products from Dover companies. The Dover Digital Labs team has also deployed shared IIoT capability so many of Dover's products are remotely configurable and monitored, enabling our businesses to sell aftermarket parts and offer remote diagnostic services.

In 2019, we began to coordinate and oversee operations management from the corporate center of excellence. This team, comprised of a small group of functional experts, works closely with our businesses to drive execution excellence in our operational initiatives and best-in-class processes, standards and measurement tools to identify, prioritize and monitor execution of operational improvement initiatives. The operations center of excellence has expertise in health and safety, supply chain management, lean operations, project management, and advanced manufacturing and automation. We continue to focus on initiatives to improve operational efficiency and enhance and solidify the continuous improvement programs embedded in our businesses' day-to-day operations, such as significant production automation and footprint consolidation projects.

We continue to invest in Dover Business Services shared service centers, consisting of a team of more than 300 people, to provide important transactional and value-added services to our businesses in the areas of finance, IT and human resources. Our shared service model allows us to leverage scale across Dover, increase process efficiencies through technology and specialization and reduce risk through centralized controls. Our shared service centers serve our businesses by freeing resources normally dedicated to transactional services to allow those resources to focus on customers, markets and product excellence. We expect to continue driving efficiencies through Dover Business Services as we increase the level of service centralization across the portfolio.

Our India Innovation Center has a team of approximately 500 people that our businesses can leverage for product engineering, digital solutions development, data & information management, research & development, and intellectual property services. The scale and expertise of this team allows our businesses to access resources that would be unaffordable to them as stand-alone companies, and allows for concurrent engineering on time sensitive projects.
Additionally, we focus on improving margins and returns by rigorously capturing synergies from our acquisitions and providing best-in-class corporate support and services through a lean corporate center.

7
Table of Contents
Disciplined capital allocation and continuous portfolio enhancement

We are focused on the most efficient allocation of capital to maximize returns on investment. To do this, we prioritize organic reinvestment to grow and strengthen our existing businesses. We plan to make average annual investments in capital spending of approximately 2% - 4% of revenue with a focus on internal projects designed to expand our market participation, develop new products and improve productivity. We seek to deploy capital in acquisitions in attractive growth areas across our five segments. Dover focuses primarily on bolt-on acquisitions, applying strict selection criteria of market attractiveness (including growth, maturity, and performance-based competition), business fit (including sustained leading position, revenue visibility, and favorable customer value-add versus switching cost or risk) and financial return profile (accretive growth and margins and double-digit return on capital). We opportunistically divest businesses where we see limited runway for future value creation in line with our aspirations, or where market and business fundamentals change and no longer fit our criteria of business attractiveness and portfolio fit. Finally, we have consistently returned cash to shareholders by paying dividends, which have increased annually over each of the last 65 years. We undertake opportunistic share repurchases as part of our capital allocation strategy. We employ a prudent financial policy to support our capital allocation strategy, which includes maintaining an investment grade credit rating.

Portfolio Development

Acquisitions

Our acquisition program has two key elements. As a first priority, we seek to acquire attractive add-on businesses with a strong fit that enhance our existing franchises either by increasing their reach and customer access, by broadening their product mix or by enhancing technological capability and customer value-add. Second, in the right circumstances, we may strategically pursue larger, stand-alone businesses that complement our existing businesses or provide a path for us to pursue growth in near adjacencies. With all our acquisitions, we seek businesses that are leaders in their markets or niches, have a strong track record for innovation, offer differentiated solutions, clearly complement our businesses and have a solid organic growth profile, attractive and sustainable returns, and offer significant synergy potential to generate double-digit return on capital within three years after the acquisition is completed.

Over the past three years (2018 through 2020), we have spent approximately $620.7 million to purchase eleven businesses. During 2020, we acquired six businesses for an aggregate consideration of $335.8 million, net of cash acquired. Consistent with our acquisition program, we acquired these businesses to complement and expand upon existing operations within the Engineered Products, Fueling Solutions, Imaging & Identification, and Pumps & Process Solutions segments. During 2019, we acquired three businesses for an aggregate consideration of $216.4 million, net of cash acquired and including contingent consideration. We acquired these businesses to complement and expand upon existing operations within the Fueling Solutions and Pumps & Process Solutions segments. During 2018, we acquired two businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $68.6 million, net of cash acquired, within the Pumps & Process Solutions and Refrigeration & Food Equipment segments. For more details regarding acquisitions completed over the past three years, see Note 4 — Acquisitions in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Our future growth depends in large part on finding and acquiring successful businesses that expand the scope of our offerings and make us an even more important supplier to our customers. While we expect to generate annual organic revenue growth of 3% - 5% over a long-term business cycle absent extraordinary adverse economic conditions, our success in consistently growing the portfolio is also dependent on the ability to acquire and integrate businesses successfully within our existing structure. To track post-merger integration and accountability, we utilize an internal scorecard and well-defined processes to help ensure expected synergies are realized and value is created.

Dispositions

We have sold or divested some of our businesses based on changes in specific market outlook, structural changes in financial performance, value-creation potential, or for other strategic considerations, which included an effort to reduce our exposure to cyclical markets or focus on our higher margin growth spaces. Most of our efforts to streamline and improve the portfolio to less cyclical and higher growth businesses were completed in 2018 with the Apergy spin-off.

8
Table of Contents
Going forward, we recognize that some businesses in Dover’s portfolio may have a greater value-creation potential if owned by another parent with a larger presence and focus on a given niche. We pragmatically consider such opportunities as part of our ongoing portfolio management and review processes and execute divestitures if the value created is determined to be at an appropriate premium to the value of such business to Dover and allows Dover shareholders to participate in the future value-creation potential from a change in ownership.

During the past three years (2018 through 2020) we have sold businesses for aggregate cash consideration of $43.6 million. During 2020 and 2019, we completed the sales of the Chino, California branch of The AMS Group ("AMS Chino") in the Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment and Finder Pompe S.r.l. ("Finder") within the Pumps & Process Solutions segment, respectively. During 2018, there were no other material dispositions aside from the spin-off of Apergy as previously discussed. The financial position and results of operations for Apergy have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The disposals in 2020 and 2019 did not represent strategic shifts in operations and, therefore, did not qualify for presentation as discontinued operations. For more details, see Note 5 — Discontinued and Disposed Operations in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Business Segments

As noted previously, Dover's five segments are structured around businesses with similar business models, go-to-market strategies and manufacturing practices. This structure enables management efficiency, aligns Dover’s operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities, and provides transparency about our performance to external stakeholders. This structure increases management efficiency and better aligns Dover’s operations with its strategic initiatives and capital allocation priorities across its businesses. Dover's five operating and reportable segments are as follows: Engineered Products, Fueling Solutions, Imaging & Identification, Pumps & Process Solutions and Refrigeration & Food Equipment. For financial information about our segments and geographic areas, see Note 20 — Segment Information in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Engineered Products

Our Engineered Products segment provides a wide range of products, software and services that have broad customer applications across a number of markets, including: solid waste handling, aftermarket vehicle service, industrial automation, aerospace and defense, industrial winch and hoist, and fluid dispensing. Our waste handling business is a leading North American supplier of equipment, software and services for the refuse collection industry and for on-site processing and compaction of trash and recyclable materials. Our vehicle service business provides products, software and services used primarily in vehicle repair and maintenance, including light and heavy-duty vehicle lifts, wheel service equipment, vehicle diagnostics and vehicle collision repair solutions. The businesses in the industrial automation market provide a wide range of modular automation components including manual clamps, power clamps, rotary and linear mechanical indexers, conveyors, pick and place units, glove ports and manipulators, as well as end-of-arm robotic grippers, slides and end effectors. Our industrial winch and hoist business provides a range of winches, hoists, bearings, drives, and electric monitoring systems for infrastructure and other industrial markets. The segment also supplies radio frequency and microwave filters and switches to enable secure communications in aerospace and defense applications, and benchtop soldering and fluid dispensing solutions in electronics and industrial product assembly.

Our Engineered Products segment's products are manufactured primarily in the U.S., Europe and Asia and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors.

Fueling Solutions

Our Fueling Solutions segment provides components, equipment and software, and service solutions enabling safe transport of fuels and other hazardous fluids along the supply chain, as well as safe and efficient operation of retail fueling and vehicle wash establishments across the globe. Among solutions supplied by the segment are fuel dispensers, payment systems, hardware and underground containment systems, vehicle wash systems, as well as asset tracking, monitoring and operational optimization software. Additionally, Fueling Solutions supplies components used for the transfer of fuels and other critical liquids across the supply chain.

Our Fueling Solutions segment's products are manufactured primarily in the United States, Europe, China, Brazil and Canada and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors.
9
Table of Contents

Imaging & Identification

The companies in our Imaging & Identification segment are global suppliers of precision marking and coding, packaging intelligence, product traceability and brand protection, digital textile printing equipment and solutions, as well as related consumables, software and services. The Imaging & Identification segment primarily designs and manufactures equipment and consumables used for printing variable information (such as bar coding of dates and serial numbers) on fast-moving consumer goods, provides serialization solutions for pharmaceutical customers, and develops supply chain traceability solutions capitalizing on expanding food and product safety, supply chain traceability and brand protection requirements, and growth in emerging markets. In addition, our businesses serving the apparel and textile printing market are benefiting from a secular shift from analog to digital printing, resulting from growing demand for “fast fashion”, and more customized and complex fashion designs, as well as increasing environmental sustainability requirements (digital printing process is significantly more environment-friendly due to lower water consumption). Businesses within this segment leverage digital printing capabilities and operate business models that involve initial equipment and software sales followed by significant consumable, software and service aftermarket revenue streams.

Our Imaging & Identification segment's products are manufactured primarily in the United States, Europe and Asia and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors.

Pumps & Process Solutions

The businesses in our Pumps & Process Solutions segment manufacture specialty pumps, fluid handling components, plastics and polymers processing equipment, and highly-engineered components for rotating and reciprocating machines. The segment’s products are used in a wide variety of markets, including plastics and polymers processing, chemicals production, food/sanitary, biopharma, medical, transportation, petroleum refining, power generation and general industrial applications. Our specialty pumps and components are used in demanding and specialized operating environments with high performance requirements. Businesses within this segment share the following commonalities: the products are components or small pieces of equipment that are part of large production systems with components often specified by customers or regulations, there is a diverse and fragmented customer base, there is significant aftermarket demand from a large installed base, and the route-to-market is a mix of distribution and direct sales.

Our Pumps & Process Solutions segment's products are manufactured primarily in the United States, Europe, Mexico and Asia and are sold throughout the world directly and through a network of distributors and original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs").

Refrigeration & Food Equipment

Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment is a provider of innovative and energy-efficient equipment and systems that serve the commercial refrigeration, heating and cooling, and food equipment markets. Our refrigeration business manufactures refrigeration systems, refrigeration display cases, commercial glass refrigerator and freezer doors and brazed plate heat exchangers used for industrial heating and cooling and residential climate control. Other businesses in this segment design and manufacture commercial food service equipment and can-shaping machinery. The majority of the products that are manufactured or serviced by the Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment are used by the retail food industry, including supermarkets, “big-box” retail and convenience stores, the commercial/industrial refrigeration industry, institutional and commercial food service, food production markets and beverage can-shaping industries.

Our Refrigeration & Food Equipment segment's products are manufactured primarily in North America, Europe and Asia and are sold globally, directly and through a network of distributors.

Raw Materials

We use a wide variety of raw materials, primarily metals and semi-processed or finished components, which are generally available from a number of sources. As a result, shortages or the loss of any single supplier have not had, and are not likely to have, a material impact on operating profits. While the required raw materials are generally available, commodity pricing can be volatile, particularly for various grades of steel, copper, aluminum and select other commodities. Although cost increases in commodities may be recovered through increased prices to customers, our operating results are exposed to such
10
Table of Contents
fluctuations. We attempt to control such costs through fixed-price contracts with suppliers and various other programs, such as our global supply chain activities.

Research and Development

Our businesses invest to develop innovative products, as well as to upgrade and improve existing products, to satisfy customer needs, including demand for energy-efficient products designed to help customers meet sustainability goals, expand revenue opportunities domestically and internationally, maintain or extend competitive advantages, improve product reliability and reduce production costs.

Our Imaging & Identification segment expends significant effort in research and development because the rate of product development by their customers is often quite high. Our businesses that develop product identification and printing equipment and software solutions believe that their customers expect a continuing rate of product innovation, and performance and total cost of ownership improvement. The result has been downward pricing trends that can only be mitigated with the continuous development of innovative product solutions in a market where product life cycles generally average less than seven years.

Our Fueling Solutions segment invests in research and development to advance innovative fuel dispensing and payment platforms, fuel site asset management and connectivity solutions, and IIoT-enabled cloud-based connected solutions for retail and commercial fleet fueling settings. These technology investments align with our customer’s needs and our commitment to delivering our customers operational cost reductions, increased sales, and an enhanced customer experience through a combination of intelligent fueling and retail solutions.

Our Pumps & Process Solutions segment invests in research and development for new product introduction and custom solutions to drive volume and share in both existing markets and newer/faster growth markets – such as single-use biopharmaceutical manufacturing and liquid cooling of high performance electronics. These investments will allow us to take advantage of existing growth trends such as vaccine production for certain COVID-19 vaccines and also cell and gene therapy applications coming on the market.

Our segments contain many businesses that are also involved in important product improvement initiatives. These businesses concentrate on working closely with customers on specific applications, expanding product lines and market applications and continuously improving manufacturing processes. Some of these businesses experience a much more rapid rate of change requiring higher product development capability and products.

Our businesses invest in research and development to pursue digital strategies based on customer needs and take advantage of the cross-company capabilities developed at the Dover Digital Labs center. For example, Vehicle Services Group, within the Engineered Products segment, launched Mosaic Advanced Diagnostic Technology built in partnership with Burke Porter Group and work completed at the Digital Labs. Mosaic is the automotive repair industry’s first digitally enabled cloud based after-market advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) sensor calibration technology. Environmental Solutions Group, from the Engineered Products segment, launched artificial intelligence capabilities through 3rd Eye Digital Solution to use data to improve operations outcomes for waste hauling fleets.

Human Capital Resources

Our employees are our most valuable asset and are critical to our ability to deliver on our strategic plans. Our success in delivering high quality and innovative products and solutions for our customers and driving operational excellence is only achievable through the talent, expertise, and dedication of our global team. We had approximately 23,000 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2020.

We recognize that attracting, developing and retaining skilled talent and promoting a diverse and inclusive culture are essential to maintaining our leadership positions in the markets we serve. We are increasingly leveraging the corporate center to drive talent recruitment and development by implementing consistent human capital management practices across our businesses. This center-led focus is enabling us to make development opportunities available across our enterprise which promotes employee advancement, engagement and retention. We offer employees resources to continuously improve their skills and performance with the goal of further cultivating the diverse, entrepreneurial talent inside our global businesses to fill key positions. We seek people who are proactive and dedicated, demonstrate an ownership mindset and share our
11
Table of Contents
commitment to the pursuit of operational excellence. We continue to make significant investments in talent development and recognize that the growth and development of our employees is essential for our continued success.

We have invested in the following human capital resources, to align with our key priorities:
•Dover Digital Labs – Our team of software developers, data scientists, and product managers drive digital transformation across our businesses by enhancing customer experience, developing connected products and enabling digital manufacturing.
•Operational management – Our operations teams, including our management team at the corporate center, continually focuses on improving operational efficiency, such as implementing production automation.
•Health and safety – We are committed to providing a healthy environment and safe workplace by operating in accordance with established health and safety protocols across our facilities while maintaining an enhanced health and safety compliance program. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have modified practices at our manufacturing locations and offices to adhere to guidance from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and local health and governmental authorities in our global network. We have invested at the corporate center to provide oversight, enhance coordination and ensure robust safety protocols are present across our operations. We believe that a healthy and safe workforce is an engaged workforce that is ready and able to contribute to our success.
•Shared services – We invest in Dover Business Services and our India Innovation Center. Our shared services capabilities include a wide range of functional areas including transactional support, human resources, IT, engineering and product development. These services enable productivity and growth as well as free up resources at our businesses to focus on customers, markets and product development.

Intellectual Property and Intangible Assets

Our businesses own many patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property, which have been created, registered or acquired over a number of years and, to the extent relevant, expire at various times over a number of years. A large portion of our businesses’ intellectual property consists of patents, unpatented technology and proprietary information constituting trade secrets that we seek to protect in various ways, including confidentiality agreements with employees and suppliers where appropriate. In addition, a significant portion of our intangible assets relate to customer relationships. While our intellectual property and customer relationships are important to our success, the loss or expiration of any of these rights or relationships, or any group of related rights or relationships, is not likely to materially affect our results on a consolidated basis. We believe that our commitment to continuous engineering improvements, new product development and improved manufacturing techniques, as well as strong sales, marketing and service efforts, are significant to our general leadership positions in the niche markets we serve.

Customers

We serve thousands of customers, none of which accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue in 2020. Given our diversity of served markets, customer concentrations are not significant. Businesses supplying the environmental solutions, defense, automotive and commercial refrigeration industries tend to deal with a few large customers that are significant within those industries. This also tends to be true for businesses supplying the power generation and chemical industries. In the other markets served, there is usually a much lower concentration of customers, particularly where our companies provide a substantial number of products and services applicable to a broad range of end-use applications.

Seasonality

In general, while our businesses are not highly seasonal, we do tend to have stronger revenue generation in the second half of the year, which is driven by customer capital expenditure timing and seasonal activity patterns in our end-markets. Our businesses serving the retail fueling market tend to increase in the second half of the year based on the historical purchasing patterns of their customers. Our businesses serving the major equipment markets, such as power generation, chemical and processing industries, have longer lead times geared to seasonal, commercial, or consumer demands and customers in these markets tend to delay or accelerate product ordering and delivery to coincide with those market trends which moderates the aforementioned seasonality patterns. Our food retail refrigeration business tends to face higher levels of demand in the second and third quarters as retailers avoid construction and remodeling activity during fall/winter holidays.



12
Table of Contents
Competition

Our competitive environment is complex because of the wide diversity of our products manufactured and the markets served. In general, most of our businesses are market leaders that compete with only a few companies, and the key competitive factors are customer service, product quality, price and innovation. A summary of our key competitors within each of our segments follows:
Segment		Key Competitors				Engineered Products		Oshkosh Corp. (McNeilus), Tünkers Maschinenbau GmbH, Snap-On Inc. (Challenger Lifts, Car-O-Liner), Labrie Enviroquip Group, PACCAR (Braden), Vontier (Hennessey Industries, Inc.) and numerous others	Fueling Solutions		Vontier (Gilbarco Veeder-Root), Tatsuno, Verifone, Franklin Electric, Elaflex, Gardner Denver, Inc. (Emco Wheaton), Dixon Valve & Coupling Company, Professional Datasolutions, Inc. (PDI), Salco, Washtec AG	Imaging & Identification		Danaher Corporation (Videojet), Brother Industries, Ltd. (Domino Printing), Electronics for Imaging (Reggiani), SPG Prints, Konica Minolta, Kornit Digital Ltd.	Pumps & Process Solutions		IDEX Corporation, ITT, SPX Flow Inc. (Waukesha), Ingersoll Rand (Milton Roy, Dosatron), Spirax Sarco, Nordson Corporation, Kingsbury, Seko, Ecolab, Millipore, Danaher Corporation (Pall), EnPro Industries (Compressor Products International, Garlock), Hoerbiger Holdings AG, Miba AG, Hillenbrand Inc. (Coperion)	Refrigeration & Food Equipment		Panasonic (Hussman Corp.), Alfa Laval, Welbilt Corp, Illinois Tool Works, Middleby Corp., Stolle Machinery 

International

Consistent with our strategic focus on positioning our businesses for growth, we aim to increase our revenue in international markets, particularly in developing economies in Asia, the Middle East, Eastern Europe and South America.

Most of our non-U.S. subsidiaries and affiliates are currently based in China, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and other locations including Australia, Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico, and the Netherlands.

The following table shows annual revenue derived from customers outside the U.S. as a percentage of total annual revenue for each of the last three years, by segment and in total:
Percentage of Non-U.S. Revenue
by Segment		Years Ended December 31,		2020		2019		2018	Engineered Products	27 	%		27 	%		30 	%	Fueling Solutions	45 	%		52 	%		54 	%	Imaging & Identification	75 	%		77 	%		78 	%	Pumps & Process Solutions	51 	%		49 	%		51 	%	Refrigeration & Food Equipment	37 	%		39 	%		38 	%	Total percentage of revenue derived from customers outside of the United States	45 	%		47 	%		48 	% 

Our international operations are subject to certain risks, such as price and exchange rate fluctuations and non-U.S. governmental restrictions, which are discussed further in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." For additional details regarding our non-U.S. revenue and the geographic allocation of the assets of our continuing operations, see Note 20 — Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

13
Table of Contents
Environmental Matters

Sustainability

We are committed to creating economic value for shareholders by developing products designed to help our customers meet their sustainability goals, run their operations more efficiently and satisfy evolving regulatory and environmental standards. We believe that sustainability-driven innovation in response to customer demand helps us contribute positively to enhanced resource efficiency and waste reduction while presenting a valuable growth opportunity. We highlight key initiatives and performance metrics about our sustainability activities under the “Sustainability” tab on our website, www.dovercorporation.com.

Other Matters

Our operations are governed by a variety of international, national, state and local environmental laws. We are committed to continued compliance and believe our operations generally are in substantial compliance with these laws. In a few instances, particular plants and businesses have been the subject of administrative and legal proceedings with governmental agencies or private parties relating to the discharge or potential discharge of regulated substances. Where necessary, these matters have been addressed with specific consent orders to achieve compliance.

There have been no material effects upon our earnings and competitive position resulting from our compliance with laws or regulations enacted or adopted relating to the protection of the environment. We are aware of a number of existing or upcoming regulatory initiatives intended to reduce emissions in geographies where our manufacturing and warehouse/distribution facilities are located and have evaluated the potential impact of these regulations on our businesses. We anticipate that direct impacts from regulatory actions will not be significant in the short- to medium-term. We expect the regulatory impacts associated with climate change regulation would be primarily indirect and would result in "pass-through" costs from energy suppliers, suppliers of raw materials and other services related to our operations.

Other Information

We make available free of charge through the "Investor Information" link on our website, www.dovercorporation.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We post each of these reports on the website as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K.