General
In 1995, DTE Energy incorporated in the State of Michigan. DTE Energy's utility operations consist primarily of DTE Electric and DTE Gas. DTE Energy also has three other segments that are engaged in a variety of energy-related businesses.
DTE Electric is a Michigan corporation organized in 1903 and is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy. DTE Electric is a public utility engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity to approximately 2.2 million customers in southeastern Michigan.
DTE Gas is a Michigan corporation organized in 1898 and is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of DTE Energy. DTE Gas is a public utility engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of natural gas to approximately 1.3 million customers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and transportation capacity.
DTE Energy's other businesses are involved in 1) natural gas pipelines, gathering, transportation, and storage; 2) power and industrial projects; and 3) energy marketing and trading operations.
DTE Electric and DTE Gas are regulated by the MPSC. Certain activities of DTE Electric and DTE Gas, as well as various other aspects of businesses under DTE Energy are regulated by the FERC. In addition, the Registrants are regulated by other federal and state regulatory agencies including the NRC, the EPA, EGLE, and for DTE Energy, the CFTC and CARB.
The Registrants' annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and all amendments to such reports are available free of charge through the Investor Relations SEC Filings page of DTE Energy's website: www.dteenergy.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC.
The DTE Energy Code of Ethics and Standards of Behavior, Board of Directors’ Mission and Guidelines, Board Committee Charters, and Categorical Standards for Director Independence are also posted on the DTE Energy website. The information on DTE Energy’s website is not part of this report or any other report that DTE Energy files with, or furnishes to, the SEC.
Additionally, the public may read and copy any materials the Registrants file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov.
Corporate Structure
DTE Energy sets strategic goals, allocates resources, and evaluates performance based on the following structure. For financial information by segment for the last three years, see Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Segment and Related Information."
Electric
•The Electric segment consists principally of DTE Electric, which is engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity to approximately 2.2 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers in southeastern Michigan.
Gas
•The Gas segment consists principally of DTE Gas, which is engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of natural gas to approximately 1.3 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers throughout Michigan and the sale of storage and transportation capacity.
Non-utility Operations
•Gas Storage and Pipelines consists of natural gas pipeline, gathering, transportation, and storage businesses.
•Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects that deliver energy and utility-type products and services to industrial, commercial, and institutional customers, produce reduced emissions fuel, and sell electricity and pipeline-quality gas from renewable energy projects.
•Energy Trading consists of energy marketing and trading operations.
7

Corporate and Other
•Corporate and Other includes various holding company activities, holds certain non-utility debt, and holds certain investments, including funds supporting regional development and economic growth.
dte-20201231_g2.jpg
Refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report for an in-depth analysis of each segment’s financial results. A description of each business unit follows.
ELECTRIC
Description
DTE Energy's Electric segment consists principally of DTE Electric, an electric utility engaged in the generation, purchase, distribution, and sale of electricity to approximately 2.2 million customers in southeastern Michigan. DTE Electric is regulated by numerous federal and state governmental agencies, including, but not limited to, the MPSC, the FERC, the NRC, the EPA, and EGLE. Electricity is generated from fossil-fuel plants, a hydroelectric pumped storage plant, a nuclear plant, wind and other renewable assets and is supplemented with purchased power. The electricity is sold, or distributed through the retail access program, to three major classes of customers: residential, commercial, and industrial, throughout southeastern Michigan.
Weather, economic factors, competition, energy waste reduction initiatives, and electricity prices affect sales levels to customers. DTE Electric's peak load and highest total system sales generally occur during the third quarter of the year, driven by air conditioning and other cooling-related demands. DTE Electric's operations are not dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not have a material adverse effect on the results of DTE Electric.
The Electric segment also consists of non-utility operations relating to renewable energy projects at DTE Sustainable Generation. These projects have been acquired in support of DTE Energy's renewable energy goals.
For a summary of Electric segment operating revenues by service, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of the Report, "Revenue."
Fuel Supply and Purchased Power
DTE Electric's power is generated from a variety of fuels and is supplemented with purchased power. DTE Electric expects to have an adequate supply of fuel and purchased power to meet its obligation to serve customers. DTE Electric's generating capability is heavily dependent upon the availability of coal. Coal is purchased from various sources in different geographic areas under agreements that vary in both pricing and terms. DTE Electric expects to obtain the majority of its coal requirements through long-term contracts, with the balance to be obtained through short-term agreements and spot purchases. DTE Electric has long-term and short-term contracts for the purchase of approximately 14 million tons of low-sulfur western coal and approximately 4 million tons of Appalachian coal to be delivered from 2021 to 2023. All of these contracts have pricing schedules. DTE Electric has purchase commitments for approximately 77% of the expected coal requirements for 2021. DTE Electric leases a fleet of rail cars and has the expected western and eastern coal rail requirements under multi-year contracts. The Company's 2021 rail transportation is covered under long-term agreements. The Company expects to cover all of its 2021 vessel transportation requirements for delivery of purchased coal to electric generating facilities through existing and new agreements. Given the geographic diversity of supply, DTE Electric believes it can meet its expected generation requirements.
8

DTE Electric participates in the energy market through MISO. DTE Electric offers its generation in the market on a day-ahead and real-time basis and bids for power in the market to serve its load. DTE Electric is a net purchaser of power that supplements its generation capability to meet customer demand during peak cycles or during major plant outages.
Properties
DTE Electric owns generating facilities that are located in the State of Michigan. Substantially all of DTE Electric's property is subject to the lien of a mortgage.
Generating facilities owned and in service as of December 31, 2020 for the electric segment are shown in the following table:
Location by
Michigan
County				
Net Generation Capacity(a)
Facility			Year in Service		(MW)	Fossil-fueled Steam-Electric							
Belle River(b)
St. Clair		1984 and 1985		1,034 		Greenwood		St. Clair		1979		785 		
Monroe(c)
Monroe		1971, 1973, and 1974		3,066 		River Rouge		Wayne		1958		58 		St. Clair		St. Clair		1953, 1954, 1961, and 1969		1,065 		Trenton Channel		Wayne		1968		495 		Dearborn		Wayne		2019		35 								6,538 		Natural gas and Oil-fueled Peaking Units		Various		1966-1971, 1981, 1999, 2002, and 2003		1,998 		Nuclear-fueled Steam-Electric Fermi 2		Monroe		1988		1,141 		
Hydroelectric Pumped Storage Ludington(d)
Mason		1973		1,088 		
Renewables(e)
Wind Utility		Various		2011-2020		781 		Wind Non-Utility		Various		2019-2020		108 		Solar		Various		2010-2019		65 								954 								11,719 	 
_______________________________________
(a)Represents summer net rating for all units with the exception of renewable facilities. The summer net rating is based on operating experience, the physical condition of units, environmental control limitations, and customer requirements for steam, which would otherwise be used for electric generation. Wind and solar facilities reflect name plate capacity measured in alternating current.
(b)Represents DTE Electric's 81% interest in Belle River with a total capability of 1,270 MW. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Jointly-Owned Utility Plant."
(c)The Monroe generating plant provided 49% of DTE Electric’s total 2020 power plant generation.
(d)Represents DTE Electric’s 49% interest in Ludington with a total capability of 2,220 MW. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Jointly-Owned Utility Plant."
(e)In addition to the owned renewable facilities described above, DTE Electric has long-term contracts for 481 MW of renewable power generated from wind, solar, and biomass facilities. Of the 481 MW, currently 52 MW relate to power purchase agreements with DTE Sustainable Generation.
See "Capital Investments" in Management's Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 of this Report for information regarding plant retirements and future capital expenditures.
9

DTE Electric owns and operates 698 distribution substations with a capacity of approximately 37,350,000 kilovolt-amperes (kVA) and approximately 445,800 line transformers with a capacity of approximately 32,438,000 kVA.
Circuit miles of electric distribution lines owned and in service as of December 31, 2020 are shown in the following table:
Circuit Miles	Operating Voltage-Kilovolts (kV)		Overhead		Underground	4.8 kV to 13.2 kV		28,549 			15,540 		24 kV		181 			682 		40 kV		2,303 			382 		120 kV		61 			8 				31,094 			16,612 	 
There are numerous interconnections that allow the interchange of electricity between DTE Electric and electricity providers external to the DTE Electric service area. These interconnections are generally owned and operated by ITC Transmission, an unrelated company, and connect to neighboring energy companies.
Regulation
DTE Electric is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of various agencies, including, but not limited to, the MPSC, the FERC, and the NRC. The MPSC issues orders pertaining to rates, recovery of certain costs, including the costs of generating facilities and regulatory assets, conditions of service, accounting, and operating-related matters. DTE Electric's MPSC-approved rates charged to customers have historically been designed to allow for the recovery of costs, plus an authorized rate of return on investments. The FERC regulates DTE Electric with respect to financing authorization, wholesale electric market activities, certain affiliate transactions, the acquisition and disposition of certain generation and other facilities, and, in conjunction with the NERC, compliance with mandatory reliability standards. The NRC has regulatory jurisdiction over all phases of the operation, construction, licensing, and decommissioning of DTE Electric's nuclear plant operations. DTE Electric is subject to the requirements of other regulatory agencies with respect to safety, the environment, and health.
See Notes 9, 10, 13, 19, and 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Asset Retirement Obligations," "Regulatory Matters," "Fair Value," "Commitments and Contingencies," and " Nuclear Operations."
Energy Assistance Programs
Energy assistance programs, funded by the federal government and the State of Michigan, remain critical to DTE Electric’s ability to control its uncollectible accounts receivable and collections expenses. DTE Electric’s uncollectible accounts receivable expense is directly affected by the level of government-funded assistance that qualifying customers receive. DTE Electric works continuously with the State of Michigan and others to determine whether the share of funding allocated to customers is representative of the number of low-income individuals in the service territory. DTE Electric also partners with federal, state, and local officials to attempt to increase the share of low-income funding allocated to customers.
Strategy and Competition
DTE Electric's electrical generation operations seek to provide the energy needs of customers in a cost effective manner and support DTE Energy's goal to reduce carbon emissions. With potential capacity constraints in the MISO region, there will be increased dependency on DTE Electric's generation to provide reliable service and price stability for customers. To meet the generation needs and carbon reduction goals, continuing investments will be made in renewable resources, a natural gas fueled combined cycle generation facility, and DTE Electric's primary coal generation fleet and nuclear generating plant.
DTE Electric's distribution operations focus is on distributing energy in a safe, cost effective, and reliable manner to customers. DTE Electric seeks to increase operational efficiencies to increase customer satisfaction at an affordable rate.
10

The electric retail access program in Michigan gives electric customers the option of retail access to alternative electric suppliers, subject to limits. Energy legislation enacted by the State of Michigan in 2008 and 2016 has placed a 10% cap on total retail access. This cap mitigates some of the unfavorable effects of electric retail access on DTE Electric's financial performance and full service customer rates. Customers with retail access to alternative electric suppliers consist primarily of industrial and commercial customers and represented approximately 8.5%, 10%, and 10% of retail sales in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The decrease in retail access sales in 2020 was primarily due to a large customer shutting down operations. DTE Electric expects incremental customers to move into the retail access program and for sales to return to approximately 10% in 2021.
Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from the on-site generation of industrial customers and from distributed generation applications by industrial and commercial customers. DTE Electric does not expect significant competition for distribution to any group of customers in the near term.
Revenues from year to year will vary due to weather conditions, economic factors, regulatory events, and other risk factors as discussed in the "Risk Factors" in Item 1A. of this Report.
GAS
Description
DTE Energy's Gas segment consists principally of DTE Gas, a natural gas utility engaged in the purchase, storage, transportation, distribution, and sale of natural gas to approximately 1.3 million residential, commercial, and industrial customers throughout Michigan, and the sale of storage and transportation capacity.
DTE Gas' natural gas sales, end-user transportation, and intermediate transportation volumes, revenues, and Net Income, are impacted by weather. Given the seasonal nature of the business, revenues and Net Income are concentrated in the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year. By the end of the first quarter, the heating season is largely over, and DTE Gas typically realizes substantially reduced revenues and earnings in the second quarter, and losses in the third quarter. The impacts of changes in annual average customer usage are minimized by the RDM.
DTE Gas operations are not dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers would not have a material adverse effect on the results of DTE Gas.
For a summary of Gas segment operating revenues by service, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of the Report, "Revenue."
Natural Gas Supply
DTE Gas' gas distribution system has a planned maximum daily send-out capacity of 2.6 Bcf, with approximately 66% of the volume coming from underground storage for 2020. Peak-use requirements are met through utilization of storage facilities, pipeline transportation capacity, and purchased gas supplies. Because of the geographic diversity of supply and its pipeline transportation and storage capacity, DTE Gas is able to reliably meet supply requirements. DTE Gas believes natural gas supply and pipeline capacity will be sufficiently available to meet market demands in the foreseeable future.
DTE Gas purchases natural gas supplies in the open market by contracting with producers and marketers and maintains a diversified portfolio of natural gas supply contracts. Supplier, producing region, quantity, and available transportation diversify DTE Gas' natural gas supply base. Natural gas supply is obtained from various sources in different geographic areas (Appalachian, Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, Canada, and Michigan) under agreements that vary in both pricing and terms. Gas supply pricing is generally tied to the New York Mercantile Exchange and published price indices to approximate current market prices combined with MPSC-approved fixed price supplies with varying terms and volumes through 2023.
11

DTE Gas is directly connected to interstate pipelines, providing access to most of the major natural gas supply producing regions in the Appalachian, Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent, and Canadian regions. The primary long-term transportation supply contracts at December 31, 2020 are listed below.
Availability
(MDth/d)		Contract
Expiration	Viking Gas Transmission Company	21		2022	Vector Pipeline L.P. (an affiliate)	20		2022	Great Lakes Gas Transmission L.P.	30		2023	ANR Pipeline Company	129		2028	Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company	125		2029	NEXUS Pipeline (an affiliate)	75		2033 
Properties
DTE Gas owns distribution, storage, and transportation properties that are located in the State of Michigan. The distribution system includes approximately 20,000 miles of distribution mains, approximately 1,308,000 service pipelines, and approximately 1,305,000 active meters. DTE Gas also owns approximately 2,000 miles of transmission pipelines that deliver natural gas to the distribution districts and interconnect DTE Gas storage fields with the sources of supply and the market areas.
DTE Gas owns storage properties relating to four underground natural gas storage fields with an aggregate working gas storage capacity of approximately 139 Bcf. These facilities are important in providing reliable and cost-effective service to DTE Gas customers. In addition, DTE Gas sells storage services to third parties.
Most of DTE Gas' distribution and transportation property is located on property owned by others and used by DTE Gas through easements, permits, or licenses. Substantially all of DTE Gas' property is subject to the lien of a mortgage.
DTE Gas leases a portion of its pipeline system to the Vector Pipeline Partnership (an affiliate) through a finance lease arrangement. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of the Report, "Leases."
Regulation
DTE Gas is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the MPSC, which issues orders pertaining to rates, recovery of certain costs, including the costs of regulatory assets, conditions of service, accounting, and operating-related matters. DTE Gas' MPSC-approved rates charged to customers have historically been designed to allow for the recovery of costs, plus an authorized rate of return on investments. DTE Gas operates natural gas storage and transportation facilities in Michigan as intrastate facilities regulated by the MPSC and provides intrastate storage and transportation services pursuant to a MPSC-approved tariff.
DTE Gas also provides interstate storage and transportation services in accordance with an Operating Statement on file with the FERC. The FERC's jurisdiction is limited and extends to the rates, non-discriminatory requirements, and the terms and conditions applicable to storage and transportation provided by DTE Gas in interstate markets. FERC granted DTE Gas authority to provide storage and related services in interstate commerce at market-based rates. DTE Gas provides transportation services in interstate commerce at cost-based rates approved by the MPSC and filed with the FERC.
DTE Gas is subject to the requirements of other regulatory agencies with respect to safety, the environment, and health.
See Notes 10 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Regulatory Matters" and "Commitments and Contingencies."
Energy Assistance Program
Energy assistance programs, funded by the federal government and the State of Michigan, remain critical to DTE Gas' ability to control its uncollectible accounts receivable and collections expenses. DTE Gas' uncollectible accounts receivable expense is directly affected by the level of government-funded assistance its qualifying customers receive. DTE Gas works continuously with the State of Michigan and others to determine whether the share of funding allocated to customers is representative of the number of low-income individuals in the service territory. DTE Gas also partners with federal, state, and local officials to attempt to increase the share of low-income funding allocated to DTE Gas customers.
12

Strategy and Competition
DTE Gas' strategy is to ensure the safe, reliable, and cost effective delivery of natural gas service within its franchised markets in Michigan. In addition, DTE Gas is promoting the extension of its distribution system to underserved markets and the increased use of natural gas furnaces, water heaters, and appliances within its current customer base. DTE Gas continues to focus on the reduction of operating costs and the delivery of energy waste reduction products and services to its customers, making natural gas service the preferred fuel and even more affordable for its customers.
Competition in the gas business primarily involves other natural gas transportation providers, as well as providers of alternative fuels and energy sources. The primary focus of competition for end-user transportation is cost and reliability. Some large commercial and industrial customers have the ability to switch to alternative fuel sources such as coal, electricity, oil, and steam. If these customers were to choose an alternative fuel source, they would not have a need for DTE Gas' end-user transportation service. DTE Gas competes against alternative fuel sources by providing competitive pricing and reliable service, supported by its storage capacity.
Having an extensive transportation pipeline system has enabled marketing of DTE Gas' storage and transportation services to gas producers, marketers, distribution companies, end-user customers, and other pipeline companies. The business operates in a central geographic location with connections to major Midwestern interstate pipelines that extend throughout the Midwest, eastern United States, and eastern Canada.
DTE Gas' storage capacity is used to store natural gas for delivery to its customers and is also sold to third parties under a variety of arrangements. Prices for storage arrangements for shorter periods are generally higher, but more volatile, than for longer periods. Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions, weather, and natural gas pricing.
GAS STORAGE AND PIPELINES
Description
Gas Storage and Pipelines owns, operates, and develops an integrated portfolio of natural gas interstate pipelines, intrastate pipelines, storage systems, gathering lateral pipelines, gathering systems, treatment plants, and compression and surface facilities. Gas Storage and Pipelines owns and operates both wholly owned pipeline and gathering assets, as well as interests in joint venture pipeline assets including the Millennium Pipeline, Vector Pipeline, and NEXUS Pipeline, many of which have connectivity to the wholly owned assets. Gas Storage and Pipelines provides multiple, integrated natural gas services to customers with core assets that strategically connect key demand centers in the Gulf Coast, Midwest, Ontario, and Northeast markets to the premium production areas of the Marcellus/Utica and Haynesville dry natural gas formations in the Appalachian and Gulf Coast Basins. These assets are primarily supported by long-term, fixed-price revenue contracts.
13

Properties
Gas Storage and Pipelines holds the following properties:
Property Classification		% Owned		Description		Location	Pipelines and Other							Birdsboro Pipeline		100%		14-mile pipeline delivering gas supply to the Birdsboro Power Plant		PA	Bluestone Pipeline		100%		65-mile pipeline delivering Marcellus Shale gas to Millennium Pipeline and Tennessee Pipeline		PA and NY	LEAP		100%		155-mile pipeline stretching from the Haynesville Shale area to the Gulf Coast providing access to petrochemical and refining facilities, power plants, and LNG export facilities		LA	Generation Pipeline		50%		25-mile pipeline regulated as gas utility by the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio		OH	Millennium Pipeline		26%		263-mile pipeline serving markets in the Northeast		NY	NEXUS Pipeline		50%		256-mile pipeline to transport Utica and Marcellus Shale gas to Ohio, Michigan, and Ontario market centers		OH and MI	Stonewall Gas Gathering		85%		68-mile pipeline connecting Appalachia Gathering System to Columbia Pipeline		WV	Vector Pipeline		40%		348-mile pipeline connecting Chicago, Michigan, and Ontario market centers		IL, IN, MI, and Ontario	Washington 10 Storage		100%		94 Bcf of storage capacity		MIGathering							Appalachia Gathering System		100%		135-mile pipeline delivering Marcellus Shale gas to Texas Eastern Pipeline and Stonewall Gas Gathering system		PA and WV	Blue Union		100%		343-mile gathering system delivering Haynesville Shale gas production to markets in Gulf Coast Region		LA and TX	Michigan Gathering		100%		336-mile pipeline system in northern Michigan		MI	Susquehanna Gathering		100%		197-mile pipeline delivering Southwestern Energy's Marcellus Shale gas production to Bluestone Pipeline		PA	Tioga Gas Gathering		100%		3-mile pipeline delivering production gas to Dominion Transmission interconnect		PA 
The assets of these businesses are well integrated with other DTE Energy operations. Pursuant to an operating agreement, DTE Gas provides physical operations, maintenance, and technical support for the Washington 10 storage facility and for the Michigan gathering systems.
Regulation
Gas Storage and Pipelines operates natural gas storage facilities in Michigan as intrastate facilities regulated by the MPSC and provides intrastate storage and related services pursuant to an MPSC-approved tariff. Gas Storage and Pipelines also provides interstate services in accordance with an Operating Statement on file with the FERC. Vector, Millennium, Birdsboro, and NEXUS Pipelines provide interstate transportation services in accordance with their FERC-approved tariffs. In addition, NEXUS and Vector are subject to applicable laws, rules, and regulations in Canada. Gas Storage and Pipelines' gathering and pipeline assets are subject to the rules and regulations of various state utility commissions.
Strategy and Competition
Gas Storage and Pipelines expects to continue its steady growth plan by expanding existing assets and developing new assets that are typically supported with long-term customer commitments, particularly in the following regions:
14

Midwest to Northeast Region
Gas Storage and Pipelines is focused on opportunities to supply natural gas to meet growing demand and displace less attractive supply from certain regions in North America. Much of the growth in midstream services demand for natural gas is expected to occur in the eastern Canada and the northeast U.S. regions. Gas Storage and Pipelines believes that the Vector, Millennium, and NEXUS Pipelines are well-positioned to provide access routes and low-cost expansion options to these markets due to growth in production from the Marcellus/Utica Shales in Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Gas Storage and Pipelines has agreements with key producers that support its Bluestone Pipeline, Susquehanna gathering, Tioga gathering, AGS, and SGG businesses. Gas Storage and Pipelines is evaluating new pipeline and storage investment opportunities that could include additional pipeline and gathering expansions, laterals, compression, and other Marcellus/Utica shale midstream development or partnering opportunities.
Gulf Coast Region
In December 2019, Gas Storage and Pipelines completed the acquisition of the Blue Union gathering system and LEAP gathering pipeline in the Haynesville shale formation of Louisiana which provide access to growing Gulf Coast markets. The assets serve multiple markets, including Louisiana, the nation's third largest natural gas consumer, and the Gulf Coast where demand for natural gas is rapidly increasing in the power, industrial and LNG export sectors. Furthermore, they are strategically located to meet this increasing demand given their proximity and access to multiple major downstream pipelines with bi-directional capability. Through this acquisition, Gas Storage and Pipeline invested in strategically situated assets that are supported by long-term contracts. Strong credit provisions are also incorporated into the contract with the system's largest customer.
Gas Storage and Pipelines has competition from other pipelines and storage providers. Operations are dependent upon key customers in the Haynesville shale formation in the Gulf Coast and in the Marcellus/Utica shale formation in the Northeast for a significant portion of revenues. The loss of, or reduction in volumes from, any of these key customers could result in a decline in demand for services and have a material adverse effect on the results of Gas Storage and Pipelines.
DTE Midstream Spin-off
On October 27, 2020, DTE Energy announced that its Board of Directors has authorized management to pursue a plan to spin-off the DTE Midstream business. The spin-off would establish DTE Midstream as an independent, natural gas midstream company with increased flexibility and opportunities. The separation is expected to be completed by mid-year 2021, subject to final approval by DTE Energy's Board of Directors and satisfaction of other conditions. For additional information, refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, “Acquisitions and Dispositions.”
POWER AND INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
Description
Power and Industrial Projects is comprised primarily of projects that deliver energy and utility-type products and services to industrial, commercial, and institutional customers, produce reduced emissions fuel, and sell electricity and gas from renewable energy projects. This business segment provides services using project assets usually located on or near the customers' premises in the steel, automotive, pulp and paper, airport, chemical, and other industries as follows:
Industrial Energy Services
•Steel and Petroleum Coke — Power and Industrial Projects produces metallurgical coke from a coke battery with a capacity of 1.0 million tons per year and has an investment in a second coke battery with a capacity of 1.2 million tons per year. Power and Industrial Projects also provides pulverized coal and petroleum coke to the steel, pulp and paper, and other industries.
•On-Site Energy — Power and Industrial Projects provides power generation, steam production, chilled water production, wastewater treatment, and compressed air supply to industrial customers. Power and Industrial Projects also provides utility-type services using project assets usually located on or near the customers' premises in the automotive, airport, chemical, and other industries.
15

Renewable Energy
•Wholesale Power and Renewables — Power and Industrial Projects holds ownership interests in, and operates, five renewable generating plants with a capacity of 139 MWs. The electric output is sold under long-term power purchase agreements.
•Renewable Gas Recovery — Power and Industrial Projects has ownership interests in, and operates, twenty-two gas recovery sites in nine different states. The sites recover methane from landfills and agricultural businesses and convert the gas to generate electricity, replace fossil fuels in industrial and manufacturing operations, or refine to pipeline-quality gas, which can then be used as vehicle fuel.
Reduced Emissions Fuel
•Reduced Emissions Fuel — Power and Industrial Projects has constructed and placed in service REF facilities at ten sites, including facilities located at seven third-party owned coal-fired power plants. DTE Energy has sold membership interests in seven of the facilities and entered into lease arrangements in two of the facilities. The facilities blend a proprietary additive with coal used in coal-fired power plants, resulting in reduced emissions of nitrogen oxide and mercury. Qualifying facilities are eligible to generate tax credits for ten years upon achieving certain criteria. The value of a tax credit is adjusted annually by an inflation factor published by the IRS. The value of the tax credit is reduced if the reference price of coal exceeds certain thresholds. The economic benefit of the REF facilities is dependent upon the generation of production tax credits.
Properties and Other
The following are significant properties operated by Power and Industrial Projects:
Business Areas		Location		Service Type	Industrial Energy Services					Steel and Petroleum Coke					Pulverized Coal Operations		MI		Pulverized Coal	Coke Production		MI		Metallurgical Coke Supply	Other Investment in Coke Production and Petroleum Coke		IN and MS		Metallurgical Coke Supply and Pulverized Petroleum Coke	On-Site Energy					Automotive		IN, MI, NY, and OH		Electric Distribution, Chilled Water, Wastewater, Steam, Cooling Tower Water, Reverse Osmosis Water, Compressed Air, Mist, and Dust Collectors	Airports		MI and PA		Electricity and Hot and Chilled Water	Chemical Manufacturing		KY and OH		Electricity, Steam, Natural Gas, Compressed Air, and Wastewater	Consumer Manufacturing		OH		Electricity, Steam, Wastewater, and Sewer	Business Park		PA		Electricity	Hospital and University		CA and IL		Electricity, Steam, and Chilled Water	Casino and Gaming		NJ		Electricity, Steam, and Chilled Water	Renewable Energy					Renewables		CA and MN		Electric Generation	Renewable Gas Recovery		AZ, CA, MI, NC, NY, OH, TX, UT, and WI		Electric Generation and Renewable Natural Gas	Reduced Emissions Fuel		MI, OH, IL, TX, and WI		REF Supply 
2020		2019		2018		(In millions)	Production Tax Credits Generated (Allocated to DTE Energy)						REF	$	55 			$	72 			$	178 		Renewables	9 			8 			7 		Renewable Gas Recovery	2 			3 			3 		$	66 			$	83 			$	188 	 
16

Regulation
Certain electric generating facilities within Power and Industrial Projects have market-based rate authority from the FERC to sell power. The facilities are subject to FERC reporting requirements and market behavior rules. Certain projects of Power and Industrial Projects are also subject to the applicable laws, rules, and regulations related to the EPA, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, DOE, CARB, and various state utility commissions.
Strategy and Competition
Power and Industrial Projects will continue leveraging its energy-related operating experience and project management capability to develop and grow its steel, on-site energy, and renewable energy businesses, and optimize the REF businesses until the phase-out at the end of 2021. Power and Industrial Projects will also continue to pursue opportunities to provide asset management and operations services to third parties. There are limited competitors for Power and Industrial Projects' existing disparate businesses who provide similar products and services. Power and Industrial Projects' operations are dependent upon a limited number of customers, and the loss of any one or a few customers could have a material adverse effect on the results of Power and Industrial Projects.
Power and Industrial Projects anticipates building around its core strengths in the markets where it operates. In determining the markets in which to compete, Power and Industrial Projects examines closely the regulatory and competitive environment, new and pending legislation, the number of competitors, and its ability to achieve sustainable margins. Power and Industrial Projects plans to maximize the effectiveness of its related businesses as it expands.
Power and Industrial Projects intends to focus on the following areas for growth:
•Providing energy and utility-type services to commercial and industrial customers
•Acquiring and developing renewable energy projects and other energy projects.
ENERGY TRADING
Description
Energy Trading focuses on physical and financial power, natural gas and environmental marketing and trading, structured transactions, enhancement of returns from its asset portfolio, and optimization of contracted natural gas pipeline transportation and storage positions. Energy Trading also provides natural gas, power, environmental and related services which may include the management of associated storage and transportation contracts on the customers’ behalf and the supply or purchase of environmental attributes to various customers. Energy Trading's customer base is predominantly utilities, local distribution companies, pipelines, producers and generators, and other marketing and trading companies. Energy Trading also provides commodity risk management services to the other businesses within DTE Energy.
Energy Trading enters into derivative financial instruments as part of its marketing and hedging activities. These financial instruments are generally accounted for under the MTM method, which results in the recognition in earnings of unrealized gains and losses from changes in the fair value of the derivatives. Energy Trading utilizes forwards, futures, swaps, and option contracts to mitigate risk associated with marketing and trading activity, as well as for proprietary trading within defined risk guidelines.
Significant portions of the Energy Trading portfolio are economically hedged. Most financial instruments, physical power and natural gas contracts, and certain environmental contracts are deemed derivatives; whereas, natural gas and environmental inventory, contracts for pipeline transportation, storage assets, and some environmental contracts are not derivatives. As a result, this segment will experience earnings volatility as derivatives are marked-to-market without revaluing the underlying non-derivative contracts and assets. The business’ strategy is to economically manage the price risk of these underlying non-derivative contracts and assets with futures, forwards, swaps, and options. This results in gains and losses that are recognized in different interim and annual accounting periods.
Regulation
Energy Trading has market-based rate authority from the FERC to sell power and blanket authority from the FERC to sell natural gas at market prices. Energy Trading is subject to FERC reporting requirements and market behavior rules. Energy Trading is also subject to the applicable laws, rules, and regulations related to the CFTC, U.S. Department of Homeland Security, and DOE. In addition, Energy Trading is subject to applicable laws, rules, and regulations in Canada.
17

Strategy and Competition
DTE Energy's strategy for the Energy Trading business is to deliver value-added services to DTE Energy customers. DTE Energy seeks to manage this business in a manner complementary to the growth of DTE Energy's other business segments. Energy Trading focuses on physical marketing and the optimization of its portfolio of energy assets. The segment competes with electric and gas marketers, financial institutions, traders, utilities, and other energy providers. The Energy Trading business is dependent upon the availability of capital and an investment grade credit rating. DTE Energy believes it has ample available capital capacity to support Energy Trading activities. DTE Energy monitors its use of capital closely to ensure that its commitments do not exceed capacity. A material credit restriction would negatively impact Energy Trading's financial performance. Competitors with greater access to capital, or at a lower cost, may have a competitive advantage. DTE Energy has risk management and credit processes to monitor and mitigate risk.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Description
Corporate and Other includes various holding company activities, holds certain non-utility debt, and holds certain investments, including funds supporting regional development and economic growth.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
The Registrants are subject to extensive environmental regulation and expect to continue recovering environmental costs related to utility operations through rates charged to customers. The following table summarizes DTE Energy's, including DTE Electric's, estimated significant future environmental expenditures based upon current regulations. Pending or future reconsideration of current regulations may impact the estimated expenditures summarized in the table below. Actual costs to comply could vary substantially. Additional costs may result as the effects of various substances on the environment are studied and governmental regulations are developed and implemented.
DTE Electric		DTE Gas		Non-utility		Total		(In millions)Water	$	54 			$	— 			$	— 			$	54 		Contaminated and other sites	9 			15 			— 			24 		Coal combustion residuals and effluent limitations guidelines	601 			— 			— 			601 		Estimated total future expenditures through 2025	$	664 			$	15 			$	— 			$	679 		Estimated 2021 expenditures	$	204 			$	9 			$	— 			$	213 		Estimated 2022 expenditures	$	143 			$	4 			$	— 			$	147 	 
For additional information regarding environmental matters, refer to Notes 9, 10, and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Report, "Asset Retirement Obligations," "Regulatory Matters," and "Commitments and Contingencies."
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
DTE Energy and its subsidiaries had approximately 10,600 employees as of December 31, 2020, of which approximately 5,200 were represented by unions. DTE Electric had approximately 4,800 employees as of December 31, 2020, of which approximately 2,800 were represented by unions. This workforce is comprised almost entirely of full-time employees.
DTE Energy and utilities across the country are managing the turnover of our workforce due to a significant number of retirements expected in the next ten years - a period that will be impacted by major transformation of our business through technology investments, regulatory changes to our electric generation portfolio, and upgrades to our distribution infrastructure.
Amidst this challenge, DTE is working to build a culture of highly engaged employees with skills and expertise in science, technology, engineering, math, analytics, and skilled trades, which are in high demand and critical to our industry. To attract and retain the best talent, DTE Energy promotes the engagement of its employees through diversity, equity, and inclusion, health and safety, and compensation and benefits.
18

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
DTE is committed to building a diverse, empowered, and engaged team that delivers safe, reliable service and energy to our customers. A diverse workforce and inclusive culture contributes to DTE's success and sustainability by driving innovation and creating trusted relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, and community partners. By tapping into the talent, unique perspectives, and cultural and life experiences of every employee, DTE can ensure its continued success.
DTE measures DEI performance in several ways:
•Diversity of candidates, hires, high potential talent, and leadership promotions
•Workforce representation of women, minorities, veterans, and employees with disabilities
•Employee engagement, including specific elements that measure a culture of inclusion
•Number of DEI related communications
•Supplier diversity spend
•Rankings and scores from DEI benchmarking surveys
•Formal training programs, including unconscious bias training for employees and leaders
•Salary analysis of women and minorities compared to non-minorities
Health and Safety
The health and safety of people is DTE Energy's top priority - for employees, contractors, customers, and everyone in the community DTE Energy serves. DTE Energy's safety culture is maintained and strengthened with the help of multiple safety committees spanning all levels of the company. Members include union representatives, DTE Energy executives, office workers, and field employees.
All workplace injuries and incidents that could have caused an injury are documented and thoroughly reviewed for potential preventive measures. Employees know they are responsible for their own safety and the safety of everyone around them. DTE Energy also administers regular safety training. Hazardous work is identified and categorized according to risk and training is provided to mitigate risk of any serious injuries.
DTE Energy monitors its safety performance by reviewing the rate of safety incidents, as defined by the Office of Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), and the rate of Days Away, Restricted, or Transferred (DART).
DTE Energy is also committed to providing employees with the resources they need to lead healthier lifestyles, including an on-site clinic and fitness center. DTE Energy offers a Healthy Living Program to complete both an annual physical with biometric screenings and a Health Risk Assessment to avoid a medical premium surcharge, and offers participation in health education on disease management programs.
COVID-19 Response
During the first quarter of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic began impacting Michigan and the other service territories throughout the United States in which DTE Energy operates. DTE Energy took quick action to ensure the safety and well-being of its employees.
DTE Energy has successfully implemented work from home for over half of its employees and implemented extensive new safety procedures to ensure plant and employee safety, including the use of personal protective equipment, contact tracing, and cleaning of facilities. At the onset of the pandemic, DTE Energy temporarily paused all non-critical business activities. For the essential workers most critical to our continued operations, DTE Energy sequestered certain employees to protect their health and to ensure safe and reliable gas and electric service for DTE Energy customers.
To further support employees during the pandemic, DTE Energy enhanced communications around its employee assistance programs, established an occupational health call center, and provided clinical case management for cases related to COVID-19.
19

DTE Energy continues to actively monitor risks related to COVID-19 and proper application of our safety protocol. DTE Energy is also committed to providing consistent, transparent communication to employees around safe practices, quarantine and testing protocols, vaccine availability, and timing of safely returning to office work.
Compensation and Benefits
DTE Energy is committed to offering compensation that is competitive, market driven, and internally equitable. Approximately half of DTE Energy's employees are represented by labor unions through which pay is uniformly determined through collectively bargained agreements regardless of an employee's gender or ethnicity. For non-represented employees, DTE Energy's human resources professionals establish pay ranges for each job classification and work with hiring leaders to make competitive offers within the range to candidates based on objective factors like years of experience and strength of skills relevant to the job. Annually, DTE Energy conducts a review of compensation practices as part of its affirmative action program and makes adjustments as needed to ensure that pay is fair and equitable.
DTE Energy provides competitive, customizable benefits for all regular full-time and regular part-time employees. Innovative compensation and benefits initiatives at DTE Energy include:
•A 401(k) plan/Employee Stock Ownership Plan that is available to all regular full-time and regular part-time employees, including automatic enrollment of new hires, automatic annual escalation of employee 401(k) contributions up to 10% of pay, and 401(k) matching contributions
•Competitive health and welfare benefits
•Child bonding/parental leave of absence
•Additional vacation days available for employee purchase
•Competitive incentive plans, which are offered to all non-represented employees to create alignment of corporate and individual goals
•Tuition reimbursement
Incentive Plans
DTE Energy has two primary types of incentives that reward individuals for performance. The incentives are designed to tie compensation to performance and encourage individuals to align their interests with those of the shareholders and customers of the Company.
•Annual incentive plans allow DTE Energy to reward individuals with annual cash bonuses for performance against pre-established objectives based on work performed in the prior year. Objectives are aligned with our core priorities and include metrics for employee engagement and safety, customer satisfaction, utility operating excellence, and financial metrics such as earnings per share and cash flows.
•Long-term incentive plans allow DTE Energy to grant individuals long-term equity incentives to encourage continued employment with DTE Energy, to accomplish pre-defined long-term performance objectives, and to create shareholder alignment. Metrics include total shareholder return relative to industry peers and balance sheet health.
For additional information on the metrics above, please see the "Annual and Long-term Incentives" section of DTE Energy's Proxy Statement.
Additionally, refer to DTE Energy’s 2020 Environmental, Social, Governance and Sustainability report for further information on metrics tracked for DEI, health and safety, and other components of DTE Energy’s human capital management. The report is available through the Investor Relations page of DTE Energy’s website (www.dteenergy.com), and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.