General
Duke Energy was incorporated on May 3, 2005, and is an energy company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, subject to regulation by the FERC and other regulatory agencies listed below. Duke Energy operates in the U.S. primarily through its direct and indirect subsidiaries. Certain Duke Energy subsidiaries are also Subsidiary Registrants, including Duke Energy Carolinas, Progress Energy, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio, Duke Energy Indiana and Piedmont. When discussing Duke Energy’s consolidated financial information, it necessarily includes the results of its separate Subsidiary Registrants, which along with Duke Energy, are collectively referred to as the Duke Energy Registrants.
The Duke Energy Registrants electronically file reports with the SEC, including Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to such reports.
The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at sec.gov. Additionally, information about the Duke Energy Registrants, including reports filed with the SEC, is available through Duke Energy’s website at duke-energy.com. Such reports are accessible at no charge and are made available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the SEC.
Business Segments
Duke Energy's segment structure includes three reportable business segments: Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure and Commercial Renewables. The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. Duke Energy's chief operating decision-maker routinely reviews financial information about each of these business segments in deciding how to allocate resources and evaluate the performance of the business. For additional information on each of these business segments, including financial and geographic information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.” The following sections describe the business and operations of each of Duke Energy’s business segments, as well as Other.
ELECTRIC UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure conducts operations primarily through the regulated public utilities of Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure provides retail electric service through the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity to approximately 7.9 million customers within the Southeast and Midwest regions of the U.S. The service territory is approximately 91,000 square miles across six states with a total estimated population of 25 million people. The operations include electricity sold wholesale to municipalities, electric cooperative utilities and other load-serving entities. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is also a joint owner in certain electric transmission projects. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has a 50% ownership interest in DATC, a partnership with American Transmission Company, formed to design, build and operate transmission infrastructure. DATC owns 72% of the transmission service rights to Path 15, an 84-mile transmission line in central California. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure also has a 50% ownership interest in Pioneer, which builds, owns and operates electric transmission facilities in North America. The following map shows the service territory for Electric Utilities and Infrastructure as of December 31, 2020.
9



BUSINESS	 
duk-20201231_g2.jpg
The electric operations and investments in projects are subject to the rules and regulations of the FERC, the NRC, the NCUC, the PSCSC, the FPSC, the IURC, the PUCO and the KPSC.
The following table represents the distribution of GWh billed sales by customer class for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Duke		Duke		Duke		Duke		Duke		Energy		Energy		Energy		Energy		Energy		Carolinas		Progress		Florida		Ohio		Indiana	Residential	33 	%		27 	%		51 	%		38 	%		30 	%	General service	33 	%		22 	%		35 	%		37 	%		25 	%	Industrial	23 	%		16 	%		7 	%		23 	%		31 	%	Total retail sales	89 	%		65 	%		93 	%		98 	%		86 	%	Wholesale and other sales	11 	%		35 	%		7 	%		2 	%		14 	%	Total sales	100 	%		100 	%		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 
The number of residential and general service customers within the Electric Utilities and Infrastructure service territory is expected to increase over time. Sales growth is expected within the service territory but continues to be influenced by adoption of energy efficiencies and self-generation. Residential sales increased in 2020 compared to 2019 due to customer growth and the stay-at-home orders as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, sales for general service and industrial customers decreased in 2020 due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. These trends in residential, general service and industrial sales may continue in the short term but are not expected to be permanent. It is still expected that the continued adoption of more efficient housing and appliances will have a negative impact on average usage per residential customer over time.
Seasonality and the Impact of Weather
Revenues and costs are influenced by seasonal weather patterns. Peak sales of electricity occur during the summer and winter months, which results in higher revenue and cash flows during these periods. By contrast, lower sales of electricity occur during the spring and fall, allowing for scheduled plant maintenance. Residential and general service customers are more impacted by weather than industrial customers. Estimated weather impacts are based on actual current period weather compared to normal weather conditions. Normal weather conditions are defined as the long-term average of actual historical weather conditions.
10



BUSINESS	 
The estimated impact of weather on earnings is based on the temperature variances from a normal condition and customers’ historic usage patterns. The methodology used to estimate the impact of weather does not consider all variables that may impact customer response to weather conditions such as humidity in the summer or wind chill in the winter. The precision of this estimate may also be impacted by applying long-term weather trends to shorter-term periods.
Heating degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature falls below a base temperature. Cooling degree days measure the variation in weather based on the extent the average daily temperature rises above the base temperature. Each degree of temperature below the base temperature counts as one heating degree day and each degree of temperature above the base temperature counts as one cooling degree day.
Competition
Retail
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s businesses operate as the sole supplier of electricity within their service territories, with the exception of Ohio, which has a competitive electricity supply market for generation service. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure owns and operates facilities necessary to generate, transmit, distribute and sell electricity. Services are priced by state commission-approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable electricity at fair prices.
In Ohio, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure conducts competitive auctions for electricity supply. The cost of energy purchased through these auctions is recovered from retail customers. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure earns retail margin in Ohio on the transmission and distribution of electricity, but not on the cost of the underlying energy.
Competition in the regulated electric distribution business is primarily from the development and deployment of alternative energy sources including on-site generation from industrial customers and distributed generation, such as private solar, at residential, general service and/or industrial customer sites.
Wholesale
Duke Energy competes with other utilities and merchant generators for bulk power sales, sales to municipalities and cooperatives and wholesale transactions under primarily cost-based contracts approved by FERC. The principal factors in competing for these sales are availability of capacity and power, reliability of service and price. Prices are influenced primarily by market conditions and fuel costs.
Increased competition in the wholesale electric utility industry and the availability of transmission access could affect Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s load forecasts, plans for power supply and wholesale energy sales and related revenues. Wholesale energy sales will be impacted by the extent to which additional generation is available to sell to the wholesale market and the ability of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to attract new customers and to retain existing customers.
Energy Capacity and Resources
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure owns approximately 50,807 MW of generation capacity. For additional information on owned generation facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”
Energy and capacity are also supplied through contracts with other generators and purchased on the open market. Factors that could cause Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to purchase power for its customers may include, but are not limited to, generating plant outages, extreme weather conditions, generation reliability, demand growth and price. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has interconnections and arrangements with its neighboring utilities to facilitate planning, emergency assistance, sale and purchase of capacity and energy and reliability of power supply.
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s generation portfolio is a balanced mix of energy resources having different operating characteristics and fuel sources designed to provide energy at the lowest possible cost to meet its obligation to serve retail customers. All options, including owned generation resources and purchased power opportunities, are continually evaluated on a real-time basis to select and dispatch the lowest-cost resources available to meet system load requirements.
11



BUSINESS	 
Sources of Electricity
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure relies principally on natural gas, nuclear fuel and coal for its generation of electricity. The following table lists sources of electricity and fuel costs for the three years ended December 31, 2020.
Cost of Delivered Fuel per Net		Generation by Source		Kilowatt-hour Generated (Cents)		2020		2019		2018		2020		2019		2018	
Natural gas and oil(a)
31.3 	%		29.2 	%		26.2 	%		2.55 			2.96 			3.57 		
Nuclear(a)
29.6 	%		28.6 	%		26.0 	%		0.58 			0.60 			0.50 		
Coal(a)
18.1 	%		21.6 	%		24.4 	%		2.99 			3.08 			2.82 		
All fuels (cost-based on weighted average)(a)
79.0 	%		79.4 	%		76.6 	%		1.91 			2.14 			2.29 		
Hydroelectric and solar(b)
1.9 	%		1.2 	%		1.3 	%							Total generation	80.9 	%		80.6 	%		77.9 	%							Purchased power and net interchange	19.1 	%		19.4 	%		22.1 	%							Total sources of energy	100.0 	%		100.0 	%		100.0 	%						 
(a)    Statistics related to all fuels reflect Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's ownership interest in jointly owned generation facilities.
(b)    Generating figures are net of output required to replenish pumped storage facilities during off-peak periods. 
Natural Gas and Fuel Oil
Natural gas and fuel oil supply, transportation and storage for Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s generation fleet is purchased under standard industry agreements from various suppliers, including Piedmont. Natural gas supply agreements typically provide for a percentage of forecasted burns being procured over time, with varied expiration dates. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes it has access to an adequate supply of natural gas and fuel oil for the reasonably foreseeable future.
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has certain dual-fuel generating facilities that can operate utilizing both natural gas and fuel oil. The cost of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s natural gas and fuel oil is fixed price or determined by published market prices as reported in certain industry publications, plus any transportation and freight costs. Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress, Duke Energy Florida and Duke Energy Indiana use derivative instruments to manage a portion of their exposure to price fluctuations for natural gas. For Duke Energy Florida, there is currently an agreed to moratorium with the FPSC on future hedging of natural gas prices.
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has firm interstate and intrastate natural gas transportation agreements and storage agreements in place to support generation needed for load requirements. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure may purchase additional shorter-term natural gas transportation and utilize natural gas interruptible transportation agreements to support generation needed for load requirements. The Electric Utilities and Infrastructure natural gas plants are served by various supply zones and multiple pipelines.
Nuclear
The industrial processes for producing nuclear generating fuel generally involve the mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates and services to convert, enrich and fabricate fuel assemblies.
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has contracted for uranium materials and services to fuel its nuclear reactors. Uranium concentrates, conversion services and enrichment services are primarily met through a diversified portfolio of long-term supply contracts. The contracts are diversified by supplier, country of origin and pricing. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure staggers its contracting so that its portfolio of long-term contracts covers the majority of its fuel requirements in the near term and decreasing portions of its fuel requirements over time thereafter. Near-term requirements not met by long-term supply contracts have been and are expected to be fulfilled with spot market purchases. Due to the technical complexities of changing suppliers of fuel fabrication services, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure generally source these services to a single domestic supplier on a plant-by-plant basis using multiyear contracts.
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has entered into fuel contracts that cover 100% of its uranium concentrates and conversion services through at least 2021, 100% of its enrichment services through at least 2022, and 100% of its fabrication services requirements for these plants through at least 2027. For future requirements not already covered under long-term contracts, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes it will be able to renew contracts as they expire or enter into similar contractual arrangements with other suppliers of nuclear fuel materials and services.
Coal
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure meets its coal demand through a portfolio of long-term purchase contracts and short-term spot market purchase agreements. Large amounts of coal are purchased under long-term contracts with mining operators who mine both underground and at the surface. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure uses spot market purchases to meet coal requirements not met by long-term contracts. Expiration dates for its long-term contracts, which may have various price adjustment provisions and market reopeners, range from 2021 to 2023 for Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress and 2021 to 2025 for Duke Energy Indiana. Expiration dates for Duke Energy Florida and Duke Energy Ohio are in 2021. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure expects to renew these contracts or enter into similar contracts with other suppliers as existing contracts expire, though prices will fluctuate over time as coal markets change. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has an adequate supply of coal under contract to meet its risk management guidelines regarding projected future consumption. As a result of volatility in natural gas prices and the associated impacts on coal-fired dispatch within the generation fleet, coal inventories will continue to fluctuate. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure continues to actively manage its portfolio and has worked with suppliers to obtain increased flexibility in its coal contracts.
12



BUSINESS	 
Coal purchased for the Carolinas is primarily produced from mines in Central Appalachia, Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Florida is primarily produced from mines in the Illinois Basin. Coal purchased for Kentucky is produced from mines along the Ohio River in Illinois, Ohio, West Virginia and Pennsylvania. Coal purchased for Indiana is primarily produced in Indiana and Illinois. There are adequate domestic coal reserves to serve Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's coal generation needs through end of life. The current average sulfur content of coal purchased by Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is between 1.5% and 2% for Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress, and between 2.5% and 3% for Duke Energy Florida, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure's environmental controls, in combination with the use of sulfur dioxide (SO2) emission allowances, enable Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to satisfy current SO2 emission limitations for its existing facilities.
Purchased Power
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure purchases a portion of its capacity and system requirements through purchase obligations, leases and purchase capacity contracts. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes it can obtain adequate purchased power capacity to meet future system load needs. However, during periods of high demand, the price and availability of purchased power may be significantly affected.
The following table summarizes purchased power for the previous three years:
2020		2019		2018	
Purchase obligations and leases (in millions of MWh)(a)
32.7 			34.8 			21.3 		
Purchase capacity under contract (in MW)(b)
4,716 			4,238 			4,025 	 
(a)    Represents approximately 13% of total system requirements for 2020, 14% for 2019 and 7% for 2018.
(b)    For 2020, 2019 and 2018, these agreements include approximately 412 MW of firm capacity under contract by Duke Energy Florida with QFs.
Inventory
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure must maintain an adequate stock of fuel and materials and supplies in order to ensure continuous operation of generating facilities and reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2020, the inventory balance for Electric Utilities and Infrastructure was approximately $3 billion. For additional information on inventory, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.”
Ash Basin Management
During 2015, EPA issued regulations related to the management of CCR from power plants. These regulations classify CCR as nonhazardous waste under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and apply to electric generating sites with new and existing landfills and new and existing surface impoundments and establishes requirements regarding landfill design, structural integrity design and assessment criteria for surface impoundments, groundwater monitoring, protection and remedial procedures and other operational and reporting procedures for the disposal and management of CCR. In addition to the federal regulations, CCR landfills and surface impoundments (ash basins or impoundments) will continue to be regulated by existing state laws, regulations and permits, such as the Coal Ash Management Act in North Carolina.
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure has and will periodically submit to applicable authorities required site-specific coal ash impoundment remediation or closure plans. Closure plans and all associated permits will receive necessary approvals before any work can begin. Closure activities have begun in all of Duke Energy's jurisdictions. Excavation began in 2015 at the four sites specified as high priority by the NC Coal Ash Management Act and at the W.S. Lee Steam Station site in South Carolina in connection with other legal requirements. Excavation at these sites involves movement of CCR materials to off-site locations for use as structural fill, to appropriate engineered off-site or on-site lined landfills or for reuse in an approved beneficial application. Duke Energy has completed excavation of coal ash at three of the four high-priority NC sites. At other sites where CCR management is required, planning and closure methods have been studied and factored into the estimated retirement and management costs, and closure activities have commenced.
The EPA CCR rule and the NC Coal Ash Management Act leave the decision on cost recovery determinations related to closure of coal ash surface impoundments to the normal ratemaking processes before utility regulatory commissions. Duke Energy's electric utilities have included compliance costs associated with federal and state requirements in their respective rate proceedings. In January 2021, Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress reached a settlement agreement on recovery of coal ash costs, which is subject to review and approval of the NCUC. During 2017, Duke Energy Carolinas' and Duke Energy Progress’ wholesale contracts were amended to include the recovery of expenditures related to AROs for the closure of coal ash basins. The amended contracts have retail disallowance parity or provisions limiting challenges to CCR cost recovery actions at FERC. FERC approved the amended wholesale rate schedules in 2017. For additional information on the ash basins and recovery, see Item 7, "Other Matters" and Notes 3, 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," "Commitments and Contingencies" and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively.
Nuclear Matters
Duke Energy owns, wholly or partially, 11 operating nuclear reactors located at six operating stations. The Crystal River Unit 3 permanently ceased operation in February 2013. Nuclear insurance includes: nuclear liability coverage; property damage coverage; nuclear accident decontamination and premature decommissioning coverage; and accidental outage coverage for losses in the event of a major accidental outage. Joint owners reimburse Duke Energy for certain expenses associated with nuclear insurance in accordance with joint owner agreements. The Price-Anderson Act requires plant owners to provide for public nuclear liability claims resulting from nuclear incidents to the maximum total financial protection liability, which is approximately $13.8 billion. For additional information on nuclear insurance, see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies.”
13



BUSINESS	 
Duke Energy has a significant future financial commitment to dispose of spent nuclear fuel and decommission and decontaminate each plant safely. The NCUC, PSCSC and FPSC require Duke Energy to update their cost estimates for decommissioning their nuclear plants every five years.
The following table summarizes the fair value of NDTF investments and the most recent site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost studies. Decommissioning costs are stated in 2018 or 2019 dollars, depending on the year of the cost study, and include costs to decommission plant components not subject to radioactive contamination.
NDTF(a)
Decommissioning			(in millions)	December 31, 2020		December 31, 2019		
Costs(a)
Year of Cost Study	Duke Energy	$	9,114 			$	8,140 			$	9,105 			2018 or 2019	
Duke Energy Carolinas(b)(c)
4,977 			4,359 			4,365 			2018	
Duke Energy Progress(d)
3,500 			3,047 			4,181 			2019	
Duke Energy Florida(e)
637 			734 			559 			N/A 
(a)    Amounts for Progress Energy equal the sum of Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.
(b)    Decommissioning cost for Duke Energy Carolinas reflects its ownership interest in jointly owned reactors. Other joint owners are responsible for decommissioning costs related to their interest in the reactors.
(c)    Duke Energy Carolinas' site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost study completed in 2018 was filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in 2019. A new funding study was also completed and filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in 2019.
(d)    Duke Energy Progress' site-specific nuclear decommissioning cost study completed in 2019 was filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in March 2020. Duke Energy Progress also completed a funding study, which was filed with the NCUC and PSCSC in July 2020.
(e)    During 2019, Duke Energy Florida reached an agreement to transfer decommissioning work for Crystal River Unit 3 to a third party and decommissioning costs are based on the agreement with this third party rather than a cost study. Regulatory approval was received from the NRC and the FPSC in April 2020 and August 2020, respectively. See Note 3 for more information.
The NCUC, PSCSC, FPSC and FERC have allowed Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to recover estimated decommissioning costs through retail and wholesale rates over the expected remaining service periods of their nuclear stations. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure believes the decommissioning costs being recovered through rates, when coupled with the existing fund balances and expected fund earnings, will be sufficient to provide for the cost of future decommissioning. For additional information, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Asset Retirement Obligations.”
The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (as amended) provides the framework for development by the federal government of interim storage and permanent disposal facilities for high-level radioactive waste materials. The government has not yet developed a storage facility or disposal capacity, so Electric Utilities and Infrastructure will continue to store spent fuel on its reactor sites.
Under federal law, the DOE is responsible for the selection and construction of a facility for the permanent disposal of spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste. The DOE terminated the project to license and develop a geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada in 2010, and is currently taking no action to fulfill its responsibilities to dispose of spent fuel.
Until the DOE begins to accept the spent nuclear fuel, Duke Energy Carolinas, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida will continue to safely manage their spent nuclear fuel. Under current regulatory guidelines, Harris has sufficient storage capacity in its spent fuel pools through the expiration of its renewed operating license. With certain modifications and approvals by the NRC to expand the on-site dry cask storage facilities, spent nuclear fuel dry storage facilities will be sufficient to provide storage space of spent fuel through the expiration of the operating licenses, including any license renewals, for Brunswick, Catawba, McGuire, Oconee and Robinson. Crystal River Unit 3 ceased operation in 2013 and was placed in a SAFSTOR condition in January 2018. As of January 2018, all spent fuel at Crystal River Unit 3 has been transferred from the spent fuel pool to dry storage at an on-site independent spent fuel storage installation. During 2020, the NRC and the FPSC approved an agreement to transfer ownership of spent fuel for Crystal River Unit 3 to a third party. See Note 3 for more information.
The nuclear power industry faces uncertainties with respect to the cost and long-term availability of disposal sites for spent nuclear fuel and other radioactive waste, compliance with changing regulatory requirements, capital outlays for modifications and new plant construction.
14



BUSINESS	 
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC for the design, construction and operation of its nuclear generating facilities. The following table includes the current year of expiration of nuclear operating licenses for nuclear stations in operation. During 2019, Duke Energy announced its intention to seek 20-year operating license renewals for each of the reactors it operates in Duke Energy Carolinas and Duke Energy Progress.
Unit	Year of Expiration	Duke Energy Carolinas		Catawba Units 1 and 2	2043	McGuire Unit 1	2041	McGuire Unit 2	2043	Oconee Units 1 and 2	2033	Oconee Unit 3	2034	Duke Energy Progress		Brunswick Unit 1	2036	Brunswick Unit 2	2034	Harris	2046	Robinson	2030 
The NRC has acknowledged permanent cessation of operation and permanent removal of fuel from the reactor vessel at Crystal River Unit 3. Therefore, the license no longer authorizes operation of the reactor. For additional information on nuclear decommissioning activity, see Notes 3 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters" and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively.
Regulation
State
The state electric utility commissions approve rates for Duke Energy's retail electric service within their respective states. The state electric utility commissions, to varying degrees, have authority over the construction and operation of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s generating facilities. CPCNs issued by the state electric utility commissions, as applicable, authorize Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to construct and operate its electric facilities and to sell electricity to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state electric utility commission is required for the entities within Electric Utilities and Infrastructure to issue securities. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility to collect revenues equal to its cost of providing service plus earn a reasonable rate of return on its invested capital, including equity.
In addition to rates approved in base rate cases, each of the state electric utility commissions allow recovery of certain costs through various cost-recovery clauses to the extent the respective commission determines in periodic hearings that such costs, including any past over or under-recovered costs, are prudent.
Fuel, fuel-related costs and certain purchased power costs are eligible for recovery by Electric Utilities and Infrastructure. Electric Utilities and Infrastructure uses coal, hydroelectric, natural gas, oil, renewable generation and nuclear fuel to generate electricity, thereby maintaining a diverse fuel mix that helps mitigate the impact of cost increases in any one fuel. Due to the associated regulatory treatment and the method allowed for recovery, changes in fuel costs from year to year have no material impact on operating results of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure, unless a commission finds a portion of such costs to have been imprudent. However, delays between the expenditure for fuel costs and recovery from customers can adversely impact the timing of cash flows of Electric Utilities and Infrastructure.
15



BUSINESS	 
The table below reflects significant electric rate case applications approved and effective in the past three years or applications currently pending approval.
Regulatory
Body
Annual
Increase
(Decrease)
(in millions)
Return
on
Equity
Equity
Component of
Capital Structure
Effective
Date
Approved Rate Cases:						
Duke Energy Indiana 2019 Indiana Rate Case(a)
IURC	$	146 		9.7 	%	53 	%	7/30/2020	Duke Energy Kentucky 2019 Kentucky Electric Rate Case	KPSC	24 		9.25 	%	48.23 	%	5/1/2020	Duke Energy Carolinas 2018 South Carolina Rate Case	PSCSC	45 		9.5 	%	53 	%	6/1/2019	Duke Energy Progress 2018 South Carolina Rate Case	PSCSC	29 		9.5 	%	53 	%	6/1/2019	Duke Energy Ohio 2017 Ohio Electric Rate Case	PUCO	(19)		9.84 	%	50.75 	%	1/2/2019	Duke Energy Carolinas 2017 North Carolina Rate Case	NCUC	(73)		9.9 	%	52 	%	8/1/2018	Duke Energy Kentucky 2017 Kentucky Electric Rate Case	KPSC	8 		9.725 	%	49 	%	5/1/2018	Duke Energy Progress 2017 North Carolina Rate Case	NCUC	151 		9.9 	%	52 	%	3/16/2018						Pending Rate Cases:						
Duke Energy Carolinas 2019 North Carolina Rate Case(b)
NCUC	$	291 		10.3 	%	53 	%	8/1/2020	
Duke Energy Progress 2019 North Carolina Rate Case(b)
NCUC	464 		10.3 	%	53 	%	9/1/2020 
(a)    Step 1 rates are approximately 75% of the total and became effective July 30, 2020. Step 2 rates are approximately 25% of the total rate case increase and will be implemented in mid-2021. Amounts exclude the Utility Receipt Tax amounts.
(b)    Partial Settlements were reached on July 31, 2020, which are subject to approval by the NCUC. Components of the partial settlements included a return of equity of 9.6% and a capital structure of 52% equity. These temporary rates went into effect August 24, 2020, for Duke Energy Carolinas and September 1, 2020, for Duke Energy Progress. A settlement was also reached, subject to approval by the NCUC, on coal ash cost recovery in January of 2021.

Additionally, in January 2021, Duke Energy Florida filed a settlement agreement with the FPSC that, if approved, will allow annual increases to its base rates at an agreed upon return on equity (“ROE”) band and includes a base rate stay-out provision through 2024, among other provisions. For more information on rate matters and other regulatory proceedings, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”
Federal
The FERC approves Electric Utilities and Infrastructure’s cost-based rates for electric sales to certain power and transmission wholesale customers. Regulations of FERC and the state electric utility commissions govern access to regulated electric and other data by nonregulated entities and services provided between regulated and nonregulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of nonregulated affiliates with Electric Utilities and Infrastructure.
RTOs
PJM and MISO are the ISOs and FERC-approved RTOs for the regions in which Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Indiana operate. PJM and MISO operate energy, capacity and other markets, and control the day-to-day operations of bulk power systems through central dispatch.
Duke Energy Ohio is a member of PJM and Duke Energy Indiana is a member of MISO. Transmission owners in these RTOs have turned over control of their transmission facilities and their transmission systems are currently under the dispatch control of the RTOs. Transmission service is provided on a regionwide, open-access basis using the transmission facilities of the RTO members at rates based on the costs of transmission service.
Environmental
Electric Utilities and Infrastructure is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section. See the “Other Matters” section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and other EPA regulations under development and the potential impacts such legislation and regulation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.
GAS UTILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure conducts natural gas operations primarily through the regulated public utilities of Piedmont, Duke Energy Ohio and Duke Energy Kentucky. The natural gas operations are subject to the rules and regulations of the NCUC, PSCSC, PUCO, KPSC, TPUC, PHMSA and the FERC. Gas Utilities and Infrastructure serves residential, commercial, industrial and power generation natural gas customers, including customers served by municipalities who are wholesale customers. Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has over 1.6 million customers, including 1.1 million customers located in North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, and an additional 541,000 customers located within southwestern Ohio and northern Kentucky. In the Carolinas, Ohio and Kentucky, the service areas are comprised of numerous cities, towns and communities. In Tennessee, the service area is the metropolitan area of Nashville. The following map shows the service territory and investments in operating pipelines for Gas Utilities and Infrastructure as of December 31, 2020.
16



BUSINESS	 
duk-20201231_g3.jpg
The number of residential, commercial and industrial customers within the Gas Utilities and Infrastructure service territory is expected to increase over time. Average usage per residential customer is expected to remain flat or decline for the foreseeable future; however, decoupled rates in North Carolina and various rate design mechanisms in other jurisdictions partially mitigate the impact of the declining usage per customer on overall profitability.
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure also owns, operates and has investments in various pipeline transmission and natural gas storage facilities.
Natural Gas for Retail Distribution
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure is responsible for the distribution of natural gas to retail customers in its North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Ohio and Kentucky service territories. Gas Utilities and Infrastructure’s natural gas procurement strategy is to contract primarily with major and independent producers and marketers for natural gas supply. It also purchases a diverse portfolio of transportation and storage service from interstate pipelines. This strategy allows Gas Utilities and Infrastructure to assure reliable natural gas supply and transportation for its firm customers during peak winter conditions. When firm pipeline services or contracted natural gas supplies are temporarily not needed due to market demand fluctuations, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure may release these services and supplies in the secondary market under FERC-approved capacity release provisions or make wholesale secondary market sales. In 2020, firm supply purchase commitment agreements provided 100% of the natural gas supply for both Piedmont and Duke Energy Ohio.
17



BUSINESS	 
Impact of Weather
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure revenues are generally protected from the impact of weather fluctuations due to the regulatory mechanisms that are available in most service territories. In North Carolina, margin decoupling provides protection from both weather and other usage variations like conservation for residential and commercial customer classes. Margin decoupling provides a set revenue per customer independent of actual usage. In South Carolina, Tennessee and Kentucky, weather normalization adjusts revenues either up or down depending on how much warmer or colder than normal a given month has been. Weather normalization adjustments occur from November through March in South Carolina, from October through April in Tennessee and from November through April in Kentucky. Duke Energy Ohio collects most of its non-fuel revenue through a fixed monthly charge that is not impacted by usage fluctuations that result from weather changes or conservation.
Competition
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure’s businesses operate as the sole provider of natural gas service within their retail service territories. Gas Utilities and Infrastructure owns and operates facilities necessary to transport and distribute natural gas. Gas Utilities and Infrastructure earns retail margin on the transmission and distribution of natural gas and not on the cost of the underlying commodity. Services are priced by state commission-approved rates designed to include the costs of providing these services and a reasonable return on invested capital. This regulatory policy is intended to provide safe and reliable natural gas service at fair prices.
In residential, commercial and industrial customer markets, natural gas distribution operations compete with other companies that supply energy, primarily electric companies, propane and fuel oil dealers, renewable energy providers and coal companies in relation to sources of energy for electric power plants, as well as nuclear energy. A significant competitive factor is price. Gas Utilities and Infrastructure's primary product competition is with electricity for heating, water heating and cooking. Increases in the price of natural gas or decreases in the price of other energy sources could negatively impact competitive position by decreasing the price benefits of natural gas to the consumer. In the case of industrial customers, such as manufacturing plants, adverse economic or market conditions, including higher natural gas costs, could cause these customers to suspend business operations or to use alternative sources of energy in favor of energy sources with lower per-unit costs.
Higher natural gas costs or decreases in the price of other energy sources may allow competition from alternative energy sources for applications that have traditionally used natural gas, encouraging some customers to move away from natural gas-fired equipment to equipment fueled by other energy sources. Competition between natural gas and other forms of energy is also based on efficiency, performance, reliability, safety and other non-price factors. Technological improvements in other energy sources and events that impair the public perception of the non-price attributes of natural gas could erode our competitive advantage. These factors in turn could decrease the demand for natural gas, impair our ability to attract new customers and cause existing customers to switch to other forms of energy or to bypass our systems in favor of alternative competitive sources. This could result in slow or no customer growth and could cause customers to reduce or cease using our product, thereby reducing our ability to make capital expenditures and otherwise grow our business, adversely affecting our earnings.
Pipeline and Storage Investments
Duke Energy, through its Gas Utilities and Infrastructure segment, has a 7.5% equity ownership interest in Sabal Trail. Sabal Trail is a joint venture that owns the Sabal Trail Natural Gas Pipeline (Sabal Trail pipeline) to transport natural gas to Florida, regulated by FERC. The Sabal Trail Phase I mainline was placed into service in July 2017 and traverses Alabama, Georgia and Florida. The remaining lateral line to the Duke Energy Florida's Citrus County CC was placed into service in March 2018. Phase II of Sabal Trail went into service in May 2020, adding approximately 200,000 Dth of capacity to the Sabal Trail pipeline.
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has a 47% equity ownership interest in ACP, which planned to build the ACP pipeline, an approximately 600-mile interstate natural gas pipeline. The ACP pipeline was intended to transport diverse natural gas supplies into southeastern markets and would be regulated by FERC. Dominion Energy owns 53% of ACP and was contracted to construct and operate the ACP pipeline upon completion. On July 5, 2020, Dominion announced a sale of substantially all of its gas transmission and storage segment assets, which were critical to the ACP pipeline. Further, permitting delays and legal challenges had materially affected the timing and cost of the pipeline. As a result, Duke Energy determined that they would no longer invest in the construction of the ACP pipeline. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Duke Energy recorded $2.1 billion of costs related to ACP.
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has a 24% equity ownership interest in Constitution, an interstate pipeline development company formed to develop, construct, own and operate a 124-mile natural gas pipeline and related facilities, regulated by FERC. Constitution was slated to transport natural gas supplies from the Marcellus supply region in northern Pennsylvania to major northeastern markets. As of February 5, 2020, the Constitution partners formally resolved to initiate the dissolution of Constitution, and to terminate the Constitution Pipeline project.
Duke Energy, through its Gas Utilities and Infrastructure segment, has a 21.49% equity ownership interest in Cardinal, an intrastate pipeline located in North Carolina regulated by the NCUC, a 45% equity ownership in Pine Needle, an interstate liquefied natural gas storage facility located in North Carolina and a 50% equity ownership interest in Hardy Storage, an underground interstate natural gas storage facility located in Hardy and Hampshire counties in West Virginia. Pine Needle and Hardy Storage are regulated by FERC.
KO Transmission Company (KO Transmission), a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy Ohio, is an interstate pipeline company engaged in the business of transporting natural gas and is subject to the rules and regulations of FERC. KO Transmission's 90-mile pipeline supplies natural gas to Duke Energy Ohio and interconnects with the Columbia Gulf Transmission pipeline and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. An approximately 70-mile portion of KO Transmission's pipeline facilities is co-owned by Columbia Gas Transmission Corporation.
See Notes 3, 12 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Regulatory Matters," "Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates" and "Variable Interest Entities," respectively, for further information on Duke Energy's pipeline investments.
18



BUSINESS	 
Inventory
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure must maintain adequate natural gas inventory in order to provide reliable delivery to customers. As of December 31, 2020, the inventory balance for Gas Utilities and Infrastructure was $82 million. For more information on inventory, see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."
Regulation
State
The state gas utility commissions approve rates for Duke Energy's retail natural gas service within their respective states. The state gas utility commissions, to varying degrees, have authority over the construction and operation of Gas Utilities and Infrastructure’s natural gas distribution facilities. CPCNs issued by the state gas utility commissions or other government agencies, as applicable, authorize Gas Utilities and Infrastructure to construct and operate its natural gas distribution facilities and to sell natural gas to retail and wholesale customers. Prior approval from the relevant state gas utility commission is required for Gas Utilities and Infrastructure to issue securities. The underlying concept of utility ratemaking is to set rates at a level that allows the utility to collect revenues equal to its cost of providing service plus a reasonable rate of return on its invested capital, including equity.
In addition to amounts collected from customers through approved base rates, each of the state gas utility commissions allow recovery of certain costs through various cost-recovery clauses to the extent the respective commission determines in periodic hearings that such costs, including any past over- or under-recovered costs, are prudent.
Natural gas costs are eligible for recovery by Gas Utilities and Infrastructure. Due to the associated regulatory treatment and the method allowed for recovery, changes in natural gas costs from year to year have no material impact on operating results of Gas Utilities and Infrastructure, unless a commission finds a portion of such costs to have been imprudent. However, delays between the expenditure for natural gas and recovery from customers can adversely impact the timing of cash flows of Gas Utilities and Infrastructure.
The following table summarizes certain components underlying recently approved and effective base rates or rate stabilization filings in the last three years.
Annual
Increase
(Decrease)
(in millions)
Return
on
Equity
Equity
Component of
Capital Structure
Effective Date	Approved Rate Cases:								Piedmont 2017 South Carolina Rate Stabilization Adjustment Filing	$	6 			10.2 	%		53.0 	%		November 2017	Piedmont 2018 South Carolina Rate Stabilization Adjustment Filing	(14)			10.2 	%		53.0 	%		November 2018	Piedmont 2019 South Carolina Rate Stabilization Adjustment Filing	6 			9.9 	%		55.4 	%		November 2019	Piedmont 2020 South Carolina Rate Stabilization Adjustment Filing	7 			9.8 	%		52.3 	%		November 2020	Duke Energy Kentucky 2018 Natural Gas Base Rate Case	7 			9.7 	%		50.8 	%		April 2019	Piedmont 2019 North Carolina Natural Gas Base Rate Case	109 			9.7 	%		52.0 	%		November 2019	Piedmont 2020 Tennessee Natural Gas Base Rate Case	16 			9.8 	%		50.5 	%		January 2021 
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure has IMR mechanisms in North Carolina and Tennessee designed to separately track and recover certain costs associated with capital investments incurred to comply with federal pipeline safety and integrity programs. The following table summarizes information related to the recently approved IMR filing.
Cumulative		Annual		Effective	(in millions)	Investment		Revenues		Date	Piedmont 2020 IMR Filing – North Carolina	$	307 			$	30 			December 2020 
In Piedmont's Tennessee rate case settled in February 2021, the Company included projected IMR investment through December 31, 2021, in its rate base. The recovery of integrity investment was requested in the rate case and not through the Tennessee IMR mechanism.
For more information on rate matters and other regulatory proceedings, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Regulatory Matters.”
Federal
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure is subject to various federal regulations, including regulations that are particular to the natural gas industry. These federal regulations include but are not limited to the following:
•Regulations of the FERC affect the certification and siting of new interstate natural gas pipeline projects, the purchase and sale of, the prices paid for, and the terms and conditions of service for the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas.
•Regulations of the PHMSA affect the design, construction, operation, maintenance, integrity, safety and security of natural gas distribution and transmission systems.
19



BUSINESS	 
•Regulations of the EPA relate to the environment including proposed air emissions regulations that would expand to include emissions of methane.
Regulations of the FERC and the state gas utility commissions govern access to regulated natural gas and other data by nonregulated entities and services provided between regulated and nonregulated energy affiliates. These regulations affect the activities of nonregulated affiliates with Gas Utilities and Infrastructure.
Environmental
Gas Utilities and Infrastructure is subject to the jurisdiction of the EPA and state and local environmental agencies. For a discussion of environmental regulation, see “Environmental Matters” in this section. See “Other Matters” section of Management's Discussion and Analysis for a discussion about potential Global Climate Change legislation and other EPA regulations under development and the potential impacts such legislation and regulation could have on Duke Energy’s operations.
COMMERCIAL RENEWABLES
Commercial Renewables primarily acquires, develops, builds, operates and owns wind and solar renewable generation throughout the continental U.S. The portfolio includes nonregulated renewable energy and energy storage businesses.
Commercial Renewables' renewable energy includes utility-scale wind and solar generation assets, distributed solar generation assets, distributed fuel cell assets and battery storage projects, which total 2,763 MW across 21 states from 21 wind facilities, 150 solar projects, 70 fuel cell locations and two battery storage facilities. Revenues are primarily generated by selling the power produced from renewable generation through long-term contracts to utilities, electric cooperatives, municipalities and corporate customers. In most instances, these customers have obligations under state-mandated renewable energy portfolio standards or similar state or local renewable energy goals. Energy and renewable energy credits generated by wind and solar projects are generally sold at contractual prices. The following map shows the locations of renewable generation facilities of which Commercial Renewables has an ownership interest as of December 31, 2020.
duk-20201231_g4.jpg
As eligible projects are placed in service, Commercial Renewables recognizes either PTCs as power is generated by wind projects over 10 years or ITCs when the renewable solar or fuel cell project achieves commercial availability. ITCs are recognized over the useful life of the asset as a reduction to depreciation expense. Benefits of the tax basis adjustment due to the ITC are recognized in income in the year of commercial availability. The ITC for solar and fuel cells is being phased down from a rate of 30% for projects that began construction before 2020 to a permanent 10% rate for solar and no ITC available for fuel cells if construction begins after 2023. The PTC is being phased out and wind turbines will earn 10 years of PTCs at phased-out rates if construction begins in 2017 through 2021.
20



BUSINESS	 
Commercial Renewables has entered into agreements for certain of its generating assets that are held by LLCs whose members include a noncontrolling tax equity investor. The allocation of tax attributes and cash flows to the tax equity investor are governed by the provisions of the LLC agreements. The GAAP earnings allocations to the tax equity investors can result in variability in earnings to Duke Energy as a result of the application of the HLBV method in allocating income or loss to the owners. As part of its growth strategy, Commercial Renewables expects to enter into these arrangements for future generating assets.
For additional information on Commercial Renewables' generation facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”
Market Environment and Competition
Commercial Renewables primarily competes for wholesale contracts for the generation and sale of electricity from generation assets it either develops or acquires and owns. The market price of commodities and services, along with the quality and reliability of services provided, drive competition in the wholesale energy business. The number and type of competitors may vary based on location, generation type and project size. Commercial Renewables' main competitors include other nonregulated generators and wholesale power providers.
Sources of Electricity
Commercial Renewables relies on wind, solar, fuel cells and battery resources for its generation of electric energy.
Regulation
Commercial Renewables is subject to regulation at the federal level, primarily from the FERC. Regulations of the FERC govern access to regulated market information by nonregulated entities and services provided between regulated and nonregulated utilities.
OTHER
The remainder of Duke Energy’s operations is presented as Other. While it is not a business segment, Other primarily includes interest expense on holding company debt, unallocated corporate costs including costs to achieve strategic acquisitions, amounts related to certain companywide initiatives and contributions made to the Duke Energy Foundation. Other also includes Bison and an investment in NMC.
The Duke Energy Foundation is a nonprofit organization funded by Duke Energy shareholders that makes charitable contributions to selected nonprofits and government subdivisions.
Bison, a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy, is a captive insurance company with the principal activity of providing Duke Energy subsidiaries with indemnification for financial losses primarily related to property, workers’ compensation and general liability.
Duke Energy owns a 17.5% equity interest in NMC. The joint venture company has production facilities in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, where it manufactures certain petrochemicals and plastics. The company annually produces approximately 1 million metric tons each of MTBE and methanol and has the capacity to produce 50,000 metric tons of polyacetal. The main feedstocks to produce these products are natural gas and butane. Duke Energy records the investment activity of NMC using the equity method of accounting and retains 25% of NMC's board of directors' representation and voting rights.
Human Capital Management
Governance
Our employees are critical to the success of our company. Our Human Resources organization is responsible for our human capital management strategy, which includes recruiting and hiring, onboarding and training, diversity and inclusion, workforce planning, talent and succession planning, performance management and employee development. Key areas of focus include fostering a high-performance and inclusive culture built on strong leadership and highly engaged and diverse employees, building a pipeline of skilled workers and ensuring knowledge transfer as employees retire.
Our Board of Directors provides oversight on certain human capital management matters, primarily through the Compensation and People Development Committee, which is responsible for reviewing strategies and policies related to human capital management, including with respect to matters such as diversity and inclusion, employee engagement and talent development. The Compensation and People Development Committee also receives updates on employee engagement surveys and action plans.
Employees
On December 31, 2020, Duke Energy had a total of 27,535 full-time, part-time and temporary employees, the overwhelming majority of which were full-time employees. The total includes 5,165 employees who are represented by labor unions under various collective bargaining agreements that generally cover wages, benefits, working practices, and other terms and conditions of employment.
21



BUSINESS	 
Compensation
The company seeks to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce and leverages Duke Energy’s leadership imperatives to foster a culture focused on customers, innovation, and highly engaged employees. Our compensation program is designed to link pay to performance with the goal of attracting and retaining talented employees, rewarding individual performance, encouraging long-term commitment to our business, and aligning the interests of our management team with those of key stakeholders, including shareholders and customers. In addition to competitive base pay, we provide eligible employees with compensation and benefits under a variety of plans and programs, including with respect to health care benefits, retirement savings, pension, health savings and flexible spending accounts, wellness, family leaves, employee assistance, as well as other benefits including a charitable matching program. We supplement our pay for performance program with a number of compensation policies that are aligned with the long-term interests of Duke Energy and our shareholders, including a short-term incentive plan and a long-term incentive plan for eligible employees.
Diversity and Inclusion
Duke Energy is committed to continuing to build a diverse workforce that reflects the communities we serve while strengthening a culture of inclusion where employees and customers feel respected and valued. Our Enterprise Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Council, which is chaired by our Chief Operating Officer, is responsible for reviewing our diversity and inclusion initiatives for continuous improvement, as well as helping to develop actionable outcomes and results. We have established aspirational goals with respect to diversity and inclusion, and we regularly report our progress toward achieving those goals. Our aspirational goals include achieving a workforce representation of at least 25% female and 20% racial and ethnic diversity. As of December 31, 2020, our workforce consisted of approximately 23% female and 18% racial and ethnic diversity.
The company also has a number of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are networks of employees formed around a common dimension of diversity whose goals and objectives align with the company's goals and objectives. These groups focus on employee professional development and networking, community outreach, cultural awareness, recruiting and retention. They also serve as a resource to the company for advocacy and community outreach and improving customer service through innovation. ERG-sponsored forums include networking events, mentoring, scholarship banquets for aspiring college students, and workshops on topics such as time management, stress reduction, career planning and work-life balance. Our ERGs are open to all employees.
Among other efforts, the company has developed partnerships with community organizations, community colleges and historically black colleges and universities to support our strategy of building a diverse and highly skilled talent pipeline.
Operational Excellence
The foundation for our growth and success is our continued focus on operational excellence, the leading indicator of which is safety. As such, the safety of our workforce remains our top priority. The company closely monitors the Total Incident Case Rate (TICR), which is a metric based on strict OSHA definitions that measures the number of occupational injuries and illnesses per 100 employees. This objective emphasizes our focus on achieving an event-free and injury-free workplace. As an indication of our commitment to safety, we include safety metrics in both the short-term and long-term incentive plans based on the TICR for employees. Our employees delivered strong safety results in 2020, consistent with our industry-leading performance levels from 2016 through 2019.

COVID-19 Response
Safety continued to be of paramount importance during the COVID-19 pandemic and included executing on robust business continuity plans that helped ensure critical functions continued to operate under a broad range of circumstances while maintaining a safe work environment. Actions included the following:
•Engaged our environmental, health and safety experts to develop new safety protocols for thousands of essential workers
•Quickly transitioned thousands of employees to virtual status
•Added bandwidth for our information technology systems, reviewed inventory in supply chain, implemented a series of surveys to get employee input, and provided ongoing communications to keep them informed as conditions evolved
•Created a cross-functional COVID-19 case management team to track and disposition positive cases, ensure appropriate contact tracing and compliance with quarantine and safe return to work requirements
•Ensured power plants and electricity and natural gas delivery facilities were staffed, helping safeguard dependable service to customers
•Implemented stringent preventive measures in alignment with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) guidance to help keep employees and customers safe and help ensure we had adequate resources to maintain reliability
The company also provided additional benefits to support our workforce throughout the pandemic, including:
•60 hours of additional personal time off to employees who experienced a disruption in dependent care due to school, daycare or other dependent care issues
•A $1,500 stipend to assist with unplanned expenses resulting from costs related to COVID-19 to employees at a certain pay threshold
•Donated more than $550,000 to the Relief4Employees program, which is a fund that employees can draw upon for short-term financial help during times of personal need
22



BUSINESS	 
Information about Our Executive Officers
The following table sets forth the individuals who currently serve as executive officers. Executive officers serve until their successors are duly elected or appointed.
Name		
Age(a)
Current and Recent Positions Held	Lynn J. Good		61 			
Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer. Ms. Good has served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy since January 1, 2016, and was Vice Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy from July 2013 through December 2015. Prior to that, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2009.
Steven K. Young		62 			
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Young assumed his current position in August 2013. Prior to that, he served as Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, assuming the role of Chief Accounting Officer in July 2012 and the role of Controller in December 2006.
Douglas F Esamann		63 			
Executive Vice President, Energy Solutions and President, Midwest/Florida Regions and Natural Gas Business. Mr. Esamann assumed his current position in October 2019, was Executive Vice President, Energy Solutions and President, Midwest and Florida Regions since September 2016 and was Executive Vice President and President, Midwest and Florida Regions since June 2015. Prior to that, he served as President, Duke Energy Indiana since November 2010.
Kodwo Ghartey-Tagoe		57 			
Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary. Mr. Ghartey-Tagoe assumed the position of Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in May 2020. He was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer in October 2019, after serving as President, South Carolina since 2017. Mr. Ghartey-Tagoe joined Duke Energy in 2002 and has held numerous management positions in Duke Energy’s Legal Department, including Duke Energy's Senior Vice President of State and Federal Regulatory Legal Support.
Dwight L. Jacobs		55 			
Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, Tax and Controller. Mr. Jacobs has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, Tax and Controller since January 1, 2019. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller since June 1, 2018. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Financial Planning & Analysis since February 2016 and as Chief Risk Officer since July 2014. Prior to his role as Chief Risk Officer, Mr. Jacobs served as Vice President, Rates & Regulatory Strategy since May 2010.
Dhiaa M. Jamil		64 			
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Jamil assumed the role of Chief Operating Officer in May 2016. Prior to his current position, he held the title Executive Vice President and President, Regulated Generation and Transmission since June 2015. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and President, Regulated Generation since August 2014. He served as Executive Vice President and President of Duke Energy Nuclear from March 2013 to August 2014, and was Chief Nuclear Officer from February 2008 to February 2013.
Julia S. Janson		56 			
Executive Vice President, External Affairs and President, Carolinas Region. Ms. Janson has held the position of Executive Vice President, External Affairs and President, Carolinas Region since October 2019. Prior to that, she held the position of Executive Vice President, External Affairs and Chief Legal Officer since November 2018. She originally assumed the position of Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary in December 2012, and then assumed the responsibilities for External Affairs in February 2016.
Brian D. Savoy		45 			
Senior Vice President, Chief Transformation and Administrative Officer. Mr. Savoy assumed his current position in October 2019. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Business Transformation and Technology since May 2016; Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from September 2013 to May 2016; Director, Forecasting and Analysis from 2009 to September 2013; and Vice President and Controller of the Commercial Power segment from 2006 to 2009.
Harry K. Sideris		50 			
Senior Vice President, Customer Experience and Services. Mr. Sideris assumed his current position in October 2019. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Distribution Officer since June 2018; State President, Florida from January 2017 to June 2018; Senior Vice President of Environmental Health and Safety from August 2014 to January 2017; and Vice President of Power Generations for the Company's Fossil/Hydro Operations in the western portions of North Carolina and South Carolina from July 2012 to August 2014.
 
(a)    The ages of the officers provided are as of January 31, 2021.
There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, nor any arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person involved in officer selection.
Environmental Matters
The Duke Energy Registrants are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. Environmental laws and regulations affecting the Duke Energy Registrants include, but are not limited to:
•The Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, including State Implementation Plans related to existing and new national ambient air quality standards for ozone and particulate matter. Owners and/or operators of air emission sources are responsible for obtaining permits and for annual compliance and reporting.
•The CWA, which requires permits for facilities that discharge wastewaters into navigable waters.
•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, which can require any individual or entity that currently owns or in the past owned or operated a disposal site, as well as transporters or generators of hazardous substances sent to a disposal site, to share in remediation costs.
23



BUSINESS	 
•The National Environmental Policy Act, which requires federal agencies to consider potential environmental impacts in their permitting and licensing decisions, including siting approvals.
•Coal Ash Act, as amended, which establishes requirements regarding the use and closure of existing ash basins, the disposal of ash at active coal plants and the handling of surface water and groundwater impacts from ash basins in North Carolina.
•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by RCRA, which creates a framework for the proper management of hazardous and nonhazardous solid waste; classifies CCR as nonhazardous waste; and establishes standards for landfill and surface impoundment placement, design, operation and closure, groundwater monitoring, corrective action, and post-closure care.
•The Toxic Substances Control Act, which gives EPA the authority to require reporting, recordkeeping and testing requirements, and to place restrictions relating to chemical substances and/or mixtures, including polychlorinated biphenyls.
For more information on environmental matters, see Notes 4 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental” and "Asset Retirement Obligations," respectively, and the “Other Matters” section of Management's Discussion and Analysis. Except as otherwise described in these sections, costs to comply with current federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or other potential costs related to protecting the environment are incorporated into the routine cost structure of our various business segments and are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the competitive position, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of the Duke Energy Registrants.
The "Other Matters" section of Management's Discussion and Analysis includes more information on certain environmental regulations and a discussion of Global Climate Change including the potential impact of current and future legislation related to GHG emissions on the Duke Energy Registrants' operations. Recently passed and potential future environmental statutes and regulations could have a significant impact on the Duke Energy Registrants’ results of operations, cash flows or financial position. However, if and when such statutes and regulations become effective, the Duke Energy Registrants will seek appropriate regulatory recovery of costs to comply within its regulated operations.
DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS 			 
Duke Energy Carolinas is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Duke Energy Carolinas’ service area covers approximately 24,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 2.7 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Carolinas’ generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Carolinas is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, NRC and FERC.
Substantially all of Duke Energy Carolinas' operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Carolinas operates one reportable business segment, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”
PROGRESS ENERGY 			 
Progress Energy is a public utility holding company primarily engaged in the regulated electric utility business and is subject to regulation by the FERC. Progress Energy conducts operations through its wholly owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida. When discussing Progress Energy’s financial information, it necessarily includes the results of Duke Energy Progress and Duke Energy Florida.
Substantially all of Progress Energy’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Progress Energy operates one reportable business segment, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”
DUKE ENERGY PROGRESS 			 
Duke Energy Progress is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. Duke Energy Progress’ service area covers approximately 29,000 square miles and supplies electric service to approximately 1.6 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Progress’ generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Progress is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, NRC and FERC.
Substantially all of Duke Energy Progress’ operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Progress operates one reportable business segment, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”
DUKE ENERGY FLORIDA 			 
Duke Energy Florida is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of Florida. Duke Energy Florida’s service area covers approximately 13,000 square miles and supplies electric service to approximately 1.9 million residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Florida’s generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Florida is subject to the regulatory provisions of the FPSC, NRC and FERC.
Substantially all of Duke Energy Florida’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Florida operates one reportable business segment, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”
24



BUSINESS	 
DUKE ENERGY OHIO 			 
Duke Energy Ohio is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the transmission and distribution of electricity in portions of Ohio and Kentucky, in the generation and sale of electricity in portions of Kentucky and the transportation and sale of natural gas in portions of Ohio and Kentucky. Duke Energy Ohio also conducts competitive auctions for retail electricity supply in Ohio whereby recovery of the energy price is from retail customers. Operations in Kentucky are conducted through its wholly owned subsidiary, Duke Energy Kentucky. References herein to Duke Energy Ohio include Duke Energy Ohio and its subsidiaries, unless otherwise noted. Duke Energy Ohio is subject to the regulatory provisions of the PUCO, KPSC, PHMSA and FERC.
Duke Energy Ohio’s service area covers approximately 3,000 square miles and supplies electric service to approximately 880,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers and provides transmission and distribution services for natural gas to approximately 545,000 customers. For information about Duke Energy Ohio's generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.”
KO Transmission, a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy Ohio, is an interstate pipeline company engaged in the business of transporting natural gas and is subject to the rules and regulations of FERC. KO Transmission's 90-mile pipeline supplies natural gas to Duke Energy Ohio and interconnects with the Columbia Gulf Transmission pipeline and Tennessee Gas Pipeline. An approximately 70-mile portion of KO Transmission's pipeline facilities is co-owned by Columbia Gas Transmission Corporation.
Substantially all of Duke Energy Ohio's operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Ohio has two reportable segments, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure and Gas Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information on these business segments, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”
DUKE ENERGY INDIANA 			 
Duke Energy Indiana is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of Indiana. Duke Energy Indiana’s service area covers 23,000 square miles and supplies electric service to 850,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers. For information about Duke Energy Indiana's generating facilities, see Item 2, “Properties.” Duke Energy Indiana is subject to the regulatory provisions of the IURC and FERC.
Substantially all of Duke Energy Indiana’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Duke Energy Indiana operates one reportable business segment, Electric Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”
PIEDMONT 			 
Piedmont is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the distribution of natural gas to over 1.1 million residential, commercial, industrial and power generation customers in portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, including customers served by municipalities who are wholesale customers. For information about Piedmont's natural gas distribution facilities, see Item 2, "Properties." Piedmont is subject to the regulatory provisions of the NCUC, PSCSC, TPUC, PHMSA and FERC.
Substantially all of Piedmont’s operations are regulated and qualify for regulatory accounting. Piedmont operates one reportable business segment, Gas Utilities and Infrastructure. For additional information regarding this business segment, including financial information, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, “Business Segments.”