Overview of DaVita Inc.
DaVita is a leading healthcare provider focused on transforming care delivery to improve quality of life for patients globally. We are one of the largest providers of kidney care services in the U.S. and have been a leader in clinical quality and innovation for over 20 years. DaVita is committed to bold, patient-centric care models, implementing the latest technologies and moving toward integrated care offerings. Over the years, we have established a value-based culture with a philosophy of caring that is focused on both our patients and teammates. This culture and philosophy fuel our continuous drive toward achieving our mission to be the provider, partner and employer of choice and fulfilling our vision to "build the greatest healthcare community the world has ever seen."
The loss of kidney function is normally irreversible. Kidney failure is typically caused by Type I and Type II diabetes, hypertension, polycystic kidney disease, long-term autoimmune attack on the kidneys and prolonged urinary tract obstruction. End stage renal disease or end stage kidney disease (ESRD or ESKD) is the stage of advanced kidney impairment that requires continued dialysis treatments or a kidney transplant to sustain life. Dialysis is the removal of toxins, fluids and salt from the blood of patients by artificial means. Patients suffering from ESRD generally require dialysis at least three times a week for the rest of their lives.
Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services (U.S. dialysis) business treats patients with chronic kidney failure and ESRD in the United States, and is our largest line of business. As of December 31, 2020, we provided dialysis and administrative services and related laboratory services throughout the U.S. via a network of 2,816 outpatient dialysis centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 204,200 patients and provided hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals. Our robust platform to deliver kidney care services also includes established nephrology and payor relationships as well as home programs. In addition, as of December 31, 2020, we provided dialysis and administrative services to a total of 321 outpatient dialysis centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 36,200 patients. The Company also consists of our ancillary services and strategic initiatives, which include the aforementioned international operations (collectively, our ancillary services), as well as our corporate administrative support.
Our patient-centric care model leverages our platform of kidney care services to maximize patient choice in both models and modalities of care. We believe that the flexibility we offer coupled with a focus on comprehensive kidney care supports our commitments to help improve clinical outcomes and quality of life for our patients. For the eighth consecutive year, we are an industry leader in the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services’ (CMS) Quality Incentive Program (QIP), which promotes high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESRD. We are also an industry leader for the seventh consecutive year under CMS’ Five-Star Quality Rating system, which rates eligible dialysis centers based on the quality of outcomes to help patients, their families, and caregivers make more informed decisions about where patients receive care. According to the most recently collected data, we are an industry leader for the total number of patients in home-based dialysis services.
Our quality clinical outcomes are driven by our experienced and knowledgeable teammates. We employ registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, social workers, registered dietitians, biomedical technicians and other administrative and support teammates who strive to achieve superior clinical outcomes at our dialysis facilities. In addition to our teammates at our dialysis facilities, as of December 31, 2020, our domestic Chief Medical Officer leads a team of 18 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our domestic Office of the Chief Medical Officer (OCMO). Our international Chief Medical Officer leads a team of 11 senior nephrologists in our physician leadership team as part of our international OCMO. Our OCMO teammates represent a variety of academic, clinical practice, and clinical research backgrounds. We also have a Physician Counsel that serves as an advisory body to senior management, which is composed of nine physicians with extensive experience in clinical practice and have seven Group Medical Directors as of December 31, 2020.
2

On June 19, 2019, we completed the sale of our DaVita Medical Group (DMG) business, a patient and physician-focused integrated healthcare delivery and management company, to Collaborative Care Holdings, LLC, a subsidiary of UnitedHealth Group Inc. As a result, the DMG business has been classified as discontinued operations and its results of operations are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements included in this report.
For financial information about DMG, see Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.
COVID-19 and its impact on our business
As a caregiving organization, we are exposed to and will continue to be impacted by the effects of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. DaVita’s teammates include, among others, dialysis nurses, patient care technicians, social workers, dieticians and other caregivers who are on the front lines of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic providing critical, life-sustaining care for our patients. We are closely monitoring the impact on our business of the pandemic and the resulting economic environment, including the impact on our patients, teammates, physician partners, suppliers, vendors and business partners.
During this time of great challenge, our top priorities continue to be the health, safety and well-being of our patients, teammates and physician partners and helping to ensure that our patients have the ability to maintain continuity of care throughout this crisis, whether in the hospital, outpatient or home setting. To that end, we have dedicated and continue to dedicate substantial resources in response to COVID-19, including the implementation of additional protocols in coordination with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on infection control and clinical best practices to help safely maintain continuity of care for our patients and help protect our caregivers. We also have been collaborating with the CDC, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), CMS, the American Society of Nephrology, and dialysis providers nationwide to help ensure that the dialysis community is able to support patients nationwide during this global health crisis.
The protocols and initiatives we have implemented in response to COVID-19 include steps designed to implement dedicated care shifts for patients with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 and other enhanced clinical practices, including procuring additional equipment and clinical supplies, including personal protective equipment (PPE) and providing financial support to our teammates associated with relief reimbursement. These efforts are part of a wider Prepare, Prevent, Respond and Recover protocol that we have implemented in connection with the pandemic, which also includes operational protocols such as the redistribution of teammates, machines and supplies across the country as needed and increased investment in and utilization of telehealth capabilities. We also have maintained business process continuity during the pandemic by enabling most back office teammates to work remotely. Our response protocol generally has allowed us to maintain continuity of care for our patients and we carefully monitor the efficacy of these protocols and their impact on our operations and strategic priorities as the pandemic continues. If we are required to maintain certain restrictive operational initiatives for an extended period of time, it may adversely impact our strategic initiatives, such as our strategy to continue to build on our abilities to offer home dialysis options. Certain temporary changes made in response to the COVID-19 pandemic could become permanent, which could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, any staffing shortages or disruptions, or any equipment or clinical supply shortages, disruptions or delays or associated price increases, could impact our ability to provide dialysis services or the cost of providing those services. Due in part to the protocols and initiatives described above, we have incurred significant costs related to COVID-19 in 2020, and we expect to continue to incur extended and significant additional costs in connection with our response to COVID-19.
We have worked with certain government agencies to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, and in certain cases have sought waivers of regulatory requirements. We also are working to help make COVID-19 vaccines available to our patients and teammates, including through coordination with state and federal governments on direct vaccine distribution so that we can administer vaccines to our patients and teammates. These vaccines are currently available under emergency use authorizations, and there can be no assurance that our patients and caregivers will choose to receive a COVID-19 vaccine or that the vaccines will prove to be as safe and effective as currently understood by the scientific community. In addition, we may encounter difficulties with the availability and storage of the vaccines, or administration of the vaccines, some of which have multiple dose requirements. We operate in a complex and highly regulated environment, and the novel nature of our COVID-19 response, including, for example, with respect to regulatory waivers and our administration of the newly developed COVID-19 vaccines, may increase our exposure to legal, regulatory and clinical risks.
In addition, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act and subsequent COVID-19 relief legislation temporarily suspended Medicare’s 2% sequestration from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, and the Consolidated Appropriations Act subsequently extended this sequestration suspension until March 31, 2021. While in effect, this legislation, has increased, and will continue to increase, our revenues. Furthermore, a significant initial part of the federal government response to the COVID-19 pandemic was the CARES Act's authorization of $100 billion in funding to be distributed to healthcare providers through the federal Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (Provider Relief Fund). While we declined approximately $250 million of government funding received in the second quarter of 2020 from the
3

Provider Relief Fund, certain of our competitors accepted such funds. There can be no assurance that financial or other assistance will be available from the government if we have a need for such assistance in the future.
We believe the ultimate impact of this public health crisis on the Company will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict, including among other things the severity and duration of the pandemic; further spread or resurgence of the virus, including as a result of the emergence of new strains of the virus; its impact on the CKD patient population and our patient population; the availability, acceptance, impact and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines and other treatments or therapies; the pandemic’s continuing impact on the U.S. and global economies and unemployment; the responses of our competitors to the pandemic and related changes in the marketplace; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental responses.
For additional discussion of the COVID-19 pandemic and our response, including its impact on us and related risks and uncertainties, please see the discussion below under the heading "Human Capital Management", as well as the risk factor in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading “We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, any of which may have a material adverse impact on us,” and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
U.S. dialysis business
Our U.S. dialysis business is a leading provider of kidney dialysis services for patients suffering from ESRD. As of December 31, 2020, we provided dialysis and administrative services in the U.S. through a network of 2,816 outpatient dialysis centers in 46 states and the District of Columbia, serving a total of approximately 204,200 patients. We also provide hospital inpatient dialysis services in approximately 900 hospitals and related laboratory services throughout the U.S.
According to the United States Renal Data System (USRDS), there were over 555,000 ESRD dialysis patients in the U.S. in 2018. Based on the most recent 2020 annual data report from the USRDS, the underlying ESRD dialysis patient population has grown at an approximate compound rate of 3.7% from 2008 to 2018 and a compound rate of 3.5% from 2013 to 2018, which suggests that the rate of growth of the ESRD patient population is declining relative to long term trends. A number of factors may impact ESRD growth rates, including, among others, the aging of the U.S. population, transplant rates, incidence rates for diseases that cause kidney failure such as diabetes and hypertension, mortality rates for dialysis patients and growth rates of minority populations with higher than average incidence rates of ESRD. Certain of these factors, in particular mortality rates for dialysis patients, have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Since 1972, the federal government has provided healthcare coverage for ESRD patients under the Medicare ESRD program regardless of age or financial circumstances. ESRD is the first and only disease state eligible for Medicare coverage both for dialysis and dialysis-related services and for all benefits available under the Medicare program. For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate. See page 7 for further details.
Although Medicare reimbursement limits the allowable charge per treatment, it provides industry participants with a relatively predictable and recurring revenue stream for dialysis services provided to patients without commercial insurance. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 90% of our total dialysis patients were covered under some form of government-based program, with approximately 74% of our dialysis patients covered under Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans.
Treatment options for ESRD
Treatment options for ESRD are dialysis and kidney transplantation.
Dialysis options
•Hemodialysis
Hemodialysis, the most common form of ESRD treatment, is usually performed at a freestanding outpatient dialysis center, at a hospital-based outpatient center, or at the patient’s home. The hemodialysis machine uses an artificial kidney, called a dialyzer, to remove toxins, fluids and salt from the patient’s blood. The dialysis process occurs across a semi-permeable membrane that divides the dialyzer into two distinct chambers. While blood is circulated through one chamber, a pre-mixed fluid is circulated through the other chamber. The toxins, salt and excess fluids from the blood cross the membrane into the fluid, allowing cleansed blood to return back into the patient’s body. Each hemodialysis treatment that occurs in the outpatient dialysis centers typically lasts approximately three and one-half hours and is usually performed three times per week.
4

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services are required for patients with acute kidney failure primarily resulting from trauma, patients in early stages of ESRD and ESRD patients who require hospitalization for other reasons. Hospital inpatient hemodialysis is generally performed at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.
Some ESRD patients who are healthier and more independent may perform home hemodialysis in their home or residence through the use of a hemodialysis machine designed specifically for home therapy that is portable, smaller and easier to use. Patients receive training, support and monitoring from registered nurses, usually in our outpatient dialysis centers, in connection with their home hemodialysis treatment. Home hemodialysis is typically performed with greater frequency than dialysis treatments performed in outpatient dialysis centers and on varying schedules.
•Peritoneal dialysis
Peritoneal dialysis uses the patient’s peritoneal or abdominal cavity to eliminate fluid and toxins and is typically performed at home. The most common methods of peritoneal dialysis are continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) and continuous cycling peritoneal dialysis (CCPD). Because it does not involve going to an outpatient dialysis center three times a week for treatment, peritoneal dialysis is generally an alternative to hemodialysis for patients who are healthier, more independent and desire more flexibility in their lifestyle.
CAPD introduces dialysis solution into the patient’s peritoneal cavity through a surgically placed catheter. Toxins in the blood continuously cross the peritoneal membrane into the dialysis solution. After several hours, the patient drains the used dialysis solution and replaces it with fresh solution. This procedure is usually repeated four times per day.
CCPD is performed in a manner similar to CAPD, but uses a mechanical device to cycle dialysis solution through the patient’s peritoneal cavity while the patient is sleeping or at rest.
Kidney transplantation
Although kidney transplantation, when successful, is generally the most desirable form of therapeutic intervention, the shortage of suitable donors, side effects of immunosuppressive pharmaceuticals given to transplant recipients and dangers associated with transplant surgery for some patient populations have generally limited the use of this treatment option. An executive order signed in July 2019 (the 2019 Executive Order) directed the HHS to develop policies addressing, among other things, the goal of making more kidneys available for transplant. As directed by the 2019 Executive Order, the CMS, through its Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI), subsequently released the framework for certain proposed voluntary payment models that would adjust payment incentives to encourage kidney transplants. For more information regarding the 2019 Executive Order and these payment models, please see the discussion below under the heading “-New models of care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms.”
U.S. dialysis services we provide
Outpatient hemodialysis services
As of December 31, 2020, we operated or provided administrative services through a network of 2,816 outpatient dialysis centers in the U.S. that are designed specifically for outpatient hemodialysis. In 2020, our overall network of U.S. outpatient dialysis centers increased by 63 primarily as a result of the opening of new dialysis centers and acquisitions, net of center closures, representing a total increase of approximately 2.3% from 2019.
As a condition of our enrollment in Medicare for the provision of dialysis services, we contract with a nephrologist or a group of associated nephrologists to provide medical director services at each of our dialysis centers. In addition, other nephrologists may apply for practice privileges to treat their patients at our centers. Each center has an administrator, typically a registered nurse, who supervises the day-to-day operations of the center and its staff. The staff of each center typically consists of registered nurses, licensed practical or vocational nurses, patient care technicians, a social worker, a registered dietician, biomedical technician support and other administrative and support personnel.
Under Medicare regulations, we cannot promote, develop or maintain any kind of contractual relationship with our patients that would directly or indirectly obligate a patient to use or continue to use our dialysis services, or that would give us any preferential rights other than those related to collecting payments for our dialysis services. Our total patient turnover, which is based upon all causes, averaged approximately 25% in 2020 and 24% in 2019. The overall number of patients to whom we provided services in the U.S. in 2020 decreased by approximately 1.3% from 2019, primarily due to an increase in mortality rates, which have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and a decline in new admissions. This was partially offset by new dialysis patients who started treating at our centers during the year from acquisitions and non-acquired growth.
5

Hospital inpatient hemodialysis services
As of December 31, 2020, we provided hospital inpatient hemodialysis services, excluding physician services, to patients in approximately 900 hospitals throughout the U.S. We render these services based on a contracted per-treatment fee that is individually negotiated with each hospital. When a hospital requests our services, we typically administer the dialysis treatment at the patient’s bedside or in a dedicated treatment room in the hospital, as needed.
Home-based dialysis services
Home-based dialysis services includes home hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis. Many of our outpatient dialysis centers offer certain support services for dialysis patients who prefer and are able to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis in their homes. Home-based hemodialysis support services consist of providing equipment and supplies, training, patient monitoring, on-call support services and follow-up assistance. Registered nurses train patients and their families or other caregivers to perform either home hemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. The 2019 Executive Order and related HHS guidance described above also included a stated goal of increasing the relative number of new ESRD patients that receive dialysis at home as compared to those receiving dialysis in center or at a hospital.
According to the most recent 2020 annual data report from the USRDS, in 2018 approximately 12% of ESRD dialysis patients in the U.S. perform home-based dialysis.
Treatments and revenues by modality:
The following graph summarizes our U.S. dialysis treatments by modality and U.S. dialysis patient services revenues by modality for the year ended December 31, 2020.
dva-20201231_g2.jpg
Other
ESRD laboratory services
We operate one separately licensed and highly automated clinical laboratory which specializes in ESRD patient testing. This specialized laboratory provides routine laboratory tests for dialysis and other physician-prescribed laboratory tests for ESRD patients which are integral components of the overall dialysis services that we provide. Our laboratory provides these tests predominantly for our network of ESRD patients throughout the U.S. These tests are performed to monitor a patient’s ESRD condition, including the adequacy of dialysis, as well as other medical conditions of the patient. Our laboratory utilizes information systems which provide information to certain members of the dialysis centers’ staff and medical directors regarding critical outcome indicators.
Management services
We currently operate or provide management and administrative services pursuant to management and administrative services agreements to 53 outpatient dialysis centers located in the U.S. in which we either own a noncontrolling interest or which are wholly-owned by third parties. Management fees are established by contract and are recognized as earned typically based on a percentage of revenues or cash collections generated by the outpatient dialysis centers.
Sources of revenue—concentrations and risks
Our U.S. dialysis revenues represent approximately 91% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our U.S. dialysis revenues are derived primarily from our core business of providing dialysis services and related laboratory services and, to a lesser extent, the administration of pharmaceuticals and management fees generated from providing management and administrative services to certain outpatient dialysis centers, as discussed above.
6

The sources of our U.S. dialysis revenues are principally from government-based programs, including Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans and commercial insurance plans. Our largest source of revenue is from Medicare and Medicare Advantage plans which accounted for 57% of our overall U.S. dialysis patient services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. Other sources of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020, were from commercial payors (including hospital inpatient dialysis services) accounting for 32% of revenues, Medicaid and managed Medicaid plans accounting for 7% of our revenues and other government programs accounting for 4% of our revenues.
Medicare revenue
Medicare ESRD revenue
Government dialysis related payment rates in the U.S. are principally determined by federal Medicare and state Medicaid policy. For patients with Medicare coverage, all ESRD payments for dialysis treatments are made under a single bundled payment rate which provides a fixed payment rate to encompass all goods and services provided during the dialysis treatment that are related to the dialysis treatment, including certain pharmaceuticals, such as Epogen® (EPO), vitamin D analogs and iron supplements, irrespective of the level of pharmaceuticals administered to the patient or additional services performed. Prior to January 2021, calcimimetics, a drug class taken by many patients with ESRD to treat mineral bone disorder, was separately billable through a transitional drug add-on payment adjustment (TDAPA); however, since January 1, 2021 and as described more fully below, calcimimetics has been included in the ESRD bundled payment. Most lab services are also included in the bundled payment.
Under this ESRD Prospective Payment System (PPS), the bundled payments to a dialysis facility may be reduced by as much as 2% based on the facility’s performance in specified quality measures set annually by CMS through its QIP. CMS established QIP through the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 to promote high quality services in outpatient dialysis facilities treating patients with ESRD. QIP associates a portion of Medicare reimbursement directly with a facility’s performance on quality of care measures. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement result when a facility’s overall score on applicable measures does not meet established standards. The bundled payment rate is also adjusted for certain patient characteristics, a geographic usage index and certain other factors.
Uncertainty about future payment rates remains a material risk to our business, as well as the potential implementation of or changes in coverage determinations or other rules or regulations by CMS or Medicare Administrative Contractors that may impact reimbursement. An important provision in the Medicare ESRD statute is an annual adjustment, or market basket update, to the ESRD PPS base rate. Absent action by Congress, the ESRD PPS base rate is automatically updated annually by a formulaic inflation adjustment.
On September 18, 2020, pursuant to the 2019 Executive Order, CMS, through CMMI, published the final ESRD Treatment Choices mandatory payment model (ETC). The ETC launched on January 1, 2021, and will be administered through CMMI and in approximately 30% of dialysis clinics across the country.
On November 9, 2020, CMS issued a final rule to update the ESRD PPS payment rate and policies. Among other things, the rule provided for the inclusion of calcimimetics in the ESRD bundled payment as described above; specified TDAPAs for certain new renal dialysis drugs and biological products; and amended the reporting measures in the ESRD QIP. CMS estimates that the overall impact of the final rule will increase ESRD facilities’ average reimbursement by 1.6% in 2021.
As a result of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and subsequent activity in Congress, a $1.2 trillion sequester (across-the-board spending cuts) in discretionary programs took effect in 2013 reducing Medicare payments by 2%, which was subsequently extended through fiscal year 2027. The CARES Act that was signed into law on March 27, 2020 included a provision that suspended the 2% Medicare sequestration from May 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 signed into law on December 27, 2020 extended the suspension of the 2% Medicare sequestration until March 31, 2021. In the year ended December 31, 2020, our revenues increased due to this suspension and we estimate that this suspension will increase our revenues while it remains in effect. When the temporary suspension is no longer in effect the across-the-board spending cuts of the BCA will continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
ESRD patients receiving dialysis services become eligible for primary Medicare coverage at various times, depending on their age or disability status, as well as whether they are covered by a commercial insurance plan. Generally, for a patient not covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare becomes the primary payor for ESRD patients receiving dialysis services either immediately or after a three-month waiting period. For a patient covered by a commercial insurance plan, Medicare generally becomes the primary payor after 33 months, which includes the three-month waiting period, or earlier if the patient’s commercial insurance plan coverage terminates. When Medicare becomes the primary payor, the payment rates we receive for
7

that patient shift from the commercial insurance plan rates to Medicare payment rates, which are on average significantly lower than commercial insurance rates.
Medicare pays 80% of the amount set by the Medicare system for each covered dialysis treatment. The patient is responsible for the remaining 20%. In most cases, a secondary payor, such as Medicare supplemental insurance, a state Medicaid program or a commercial health plan, covers all or part of these balances. Some patients who do not qualify for Medicaid, but otherwise cannot afford secondary insurance in the form of a Medicare Supplement Plan, can apply for premium payment assistance from charitable organizations to obtain secondary coverage. If a patient does not have secondary insurance coverage, we are generally unsuccessful in our efforts to collect from the patient the remaining 20% portion of the ESRD composite rate that Medicare does not pay. However, we are able to recover some portion of this unpaid patient balance from Medicare through an established cost reporting process by identifying these Medicare bad debts on each center’s Medicare cost report.
In recent years, federal legislative and executive action has been focused on developing new models of kidney care for Medicare beneficiaries. For additional detail on these and other developments in models of care, see the discussion below under the heading “—New models of care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms.”
Medicare Advantage revenue
Medicare Advantage (MA, managed Medicare or Medicare Part C) plans are offered by private health insurers who contract with CMS to provide their members with Medicare Part A, Part B and/or Part D benefits. These MA plans include health maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations, private fee-for-service organizations, special needs plans (SNPs) or Medicare medical savings account plans. The 21st Century Cures Act (the Cures Act) included a provision that, effective January 1, 2021, allows Medicare-eligible beneficiaries with ESRD to choose coverage under an MA plan. Prior to the Cures Act, MA plans were only available to ESRD patients if the patient was remaining on an MA plan that they had enrolled in prior to being diagnosed with ESRD, or in certain other limited situations such as a SNP. As a result, this provision under the Cures Act could broaden access for Medicare ESRD patients to certain enhanced benefits offered by MA plans. MA plans usually provide reimbursement to us at a negotiated rate that is generally higher than Medicare FFS rates.
Medicaid revenue
Medicaid programs are state-administered programs partially funded by the federal government. These programs are intended to provide health coverage for patients whose income and assets fall below state-defined levels and who are otherwise uninsured. These programs also serve as supplemental insurance programs for co-insurance payments due from Medicaid-eligible patients with primary coverage under the Medicare program. Some Medicaid programs also pay for additional services, including some oral medications that are not covered by Medicare. We are enrolled in the Medicaid programs in the states in which we conduct our business.
Commercial revenue
Before a patient becomes eligible to elect to have Medicare as their primary payor for dialysis services, a patient’s commercial insurance plan, if any, is generally responsible for payment of such dialysis services for up to the first 33 months, as discussed above. Although commercial payment rates vary, average commercial payment rates established under commercial contracts are generally significantly higher than Medicare rates. The payments we receive from commercial payors generate nearly all of our profits and all of our non-hospital dialysis profits come from commercial payors. Payment methods from commercial payors can include a single lump-sum per treatment, referred to as bundled rates, or in other cases separate payments for dialysis treatments and pharmaceuticals, if used as part of the treatment, referred to as FFS rates. Commercial payment rates are the result of negotiations between us and insurers or third-party administrators. Our out-of-network payment rates are on average higher than in-network commercial contract payment rates. Some of our commercial contracts pay us under a single bundled payment rate for all dialysis services provided to covered patients. However, some of our commercial contracts also pay us for certain other services and pharmaceuticals in addition to the bundled payment. Our commercial contracts typically contain annual price escalator provisions.
Approximately 25% of our U.S. dialysis patient services revenues and approximately 10% of our U.S. dialysis patients are associated with non-hospital commercial payors for the year ended December 31, 2020. Non-hospital commercial patients as a percentage of our total U.S. dialysis patients for 2020 were relatively flat compared to 2019. Less than 1% of our U.S. dialysis revenues are due directly from patients. There is no single commercial payor that accounted for more than 10% of total U.S. dialysis revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for disclosure on our concentration related to our commercial payors on a total consolidated revenue basis.
8

Both the number of our patients under commercial plans and the rates under these commercial plans are subject to change based on a number of factors. These factors include, among others, a highly competitive rate environment that shapes our ongoing negotiations with commercial payors; changes in commercial plan design; and the health of the U.S. economy including the continuing impact of COVID-19 and efforts to contain the virus. In addition, changes in state and federal legislation, regulations, rules, laws, guidance or other requirements may impact the availability and scope of commercial insurance, including, among others, developments that impact the healthcare exchanges introduced by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Affordable Care Act (ACA)) and commercial payor participation in that marketplace as well as developments that impact the availability of charitable premium assistance. For additional detail on the potential impact of these factors on our commercial revenue, see the risk factors in Item 1A Risk Factors under the headings "Our business is subject to a complex series of governmental laws, regulations and requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation"; "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows"; "We continuously have ongoing negotiations with commercial payors, and if the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline significantly, if patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs or if we are unable to maintain contracts with payors with competitive terms, including, without limitation, reimbursement rates, scope and duration of coverage and in-network benefits, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows"; "If the number or percentage of patients with higher-paying commercial insurance declines, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows"; and "We face various risks related to the dynamic and evolving novel coronavirus pandemic, any of which may have a material adverse impact on us."
Revenue from other pharmaceuticals
Effective January 1, 2018, both oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics became the financial responsibility of our U.S. dialysis business for our Medicare patients and are reimbursed under Medicare Part B. Since the effective date through December 31, 2020, the oral and intravenous forms of calcimimetics were separately reimbursed through a TDAPA and not as part of the ESRD PPS bundled payment. These separate reimbursement payments for calcimimetics were subject to change on an annual basis. During the initial pass-through TDAPA period, Medicare payments were based on a pass-through rate of the average sales price plus approximately 6% before sequestration (or 4% adjusted for sequestration), and in 2020 they were based on a pass-through rate of the average sales price plus 0%, before sequestration. As expected, as of January 1, 2021, calcimimetics was entered into the ESRD PPS bundled payment.
Physician relationships
Joint venture partners
We own and operate certain of our dialysis centers through entities that are structured as joint ventures. We generally hold controlling interests in these joint ventures, with certain nephrologists, hospitals, management services organizations, and/or other healthcare providers holding minority equity interests. These joint ventures are typically formed as limited liability companies. For the year ended December 31, 2020, revenues from joint ventures in which we have a controlling interest represented approximately 27% of our net U.S. dialysis revenues. We expect to continue to enter into new U.S. dialysis-related joint ventures in the ordinary course of business.
Community physicians
An ESRD patient generally seeks treatment at an outpatient dialysis center near their home where their treating nephrologist has practice privileges. Our relationships with local nephrologists and our ability to provide quality dialysis services and to meet the needs of their patients are key factors in the success of our dialysis operations. Over 5,400 nephrologists currently refer patients to our outpatient dialysis centers.    
Medical directors
Participation in the Medicare ESRD program requires that dialysis services at an outpatient dialysis center be under the general supervision of a medical director. Per these requirements, this individual is usually a board certified nephrologist. We have engaged physicians or groups of physicians to serve as medical directors for each of our outpatient dialysis centers. At some outpatient dialysis centers, we also separately contract with one or more other physicians or groups to serve as assistant or associate medical directors over other modalities such as home dialysis. We have over 1,000 individual physicians and physician groups under contract to provide medical director services.
9

Medical directors for our dialysis centers enter into written contracts with us that specify their duties and fix their compensation generally for periods of ten years. The compensation of our medical directors is the result of arm’s length negotiations, consistent with fair market value, and generally depends upon an analysis of various factors such as the physician’s duties, responsibilities, professional qualifications and experience, as well as the time and effort required to provide such services.
Our medical director contracts and joint venture operating agreements generally include covenants not to compete or own interests in other competing outpatient dialysis centers within a defined geographic area for various time periods, as applicable. These non-compete agreements do not restrict or limit the physicians from practicing medicine or prohibit the physicians from referring patients to any outpatient dialysis center, including competing centers.
Location of our U.S. dialysis centers
As of December 31, 2020, we operated or provided administrative services to a total of 2,816 U.S. outpatient dialysis centers. A total of 2,763 of such centers are consolidated in our financial statements. Of the remaining 53 non-consolidated U.S. outpatient dialysis centers, we own a noncontrolling interest in 50 centers and provide management and administrative services to three centers that are wholly-owned by third parties. The locations of the 2,763 U.S. outpatient dialysis centers consolidated in our financial statements at December 31, 2020, were as follows:
dva-20201231_g3.gif

10

Ancillary services and strategic initiatives, including our international operations
Our ancillary services and strategic initiatives relate primarily to our core business of providing kidney care services and, as of December 31, 2020, consisted primarily of integrated kidney care, physician services, ESCO joint ventures (ESCO JVs), and clinical research programs, as well as our international operations.
Ancillary Services and Strategic Initiatives
We have made and continue to make investments in building our integrated care capabilities, including the operation of certain strategic business initiatives that are intended to integrate care amongst healthcare participants across the renal care continuum from chronic kidney disease (CKD) to ESRD to kidney transplant. Through improved technology and data sharing, as well as an increasing focus on value-based contracting and care, these initiatives seek to bring together physicians, nurses, dieticians, pharmacists, hospitals, dialysis clinics, transplant centers and payors with a view towards improving clinical outcomes for our patients and reducing the overall cost of comprehensive kidney care.
•Integrated Kidney Care services. VillageHealth DM, LLC, also doing business as DaVita Integrated Kidney Care (DaVita IKC), provides advanced integrated care management services to health plans and government programs for members/beneficiaries diagnosed with ESRD, chronic kidney disease, and/or poly-comorbid conditions. Through a combination of clinical coordination, innovative interventions, predictive analytics, medical claims analysis and information technology, we endeavor to assist our customers and patients in obtaining superior renal healthcare and improved clinical outcomes, as well as helping to reduce overall medical costs. Integrated kidney care management revenues from commercial and Medicare Advantage insurers can be based upon either an established contract fee recognized as earned over the contract period, or related to the operation of value-based programs, including pay for performance, shared savings, and capitation contracts. DaVita IKC also contracts with payors to operate Medicare Advantage ESRD Special Needs Plans to provide ESRD patients full service healthcare. We are at risk for all medical costs of the program in excess of the capitation payments. DaVita IKC supports our ESCO joint ventures, and more recently has been provisionally accepted to participate in one of the voluntary payment models administered by CMMI.
•Physician services. Nephrology Practice Solutions (NPS) is an independent business that partners with physicians committed to providing outstanding clinical and integrated care to patients. NPS provides nephrologist recruitment and staffing services in select markets which are billed on a per search basis. NPS also offers physician practice management services to nephrologists under administrative services agreements. These services include physician practice management, billing and collections, credentialing, coding, and other support services that enable physician practices to increase efficiency and manage their administrative needs. Additionally, NPS owns and operates nephrology practices in multiple states. Fees generated from these services are recognized as earned typically based upon flat fees or cash collections generated by the physician practice.
•ESCO JVs. Certain of our dialysis clinics have entered into partnerships with various nephrology practices, health systems, and other providers to establish three ESCO JVs in Phoenix-Tucson Arizona, South Florida, and Philadelphia Pennsylvania-Camden, New Jersey. The ESCO JVs were formed under the CMS Innovation Center’s CEC Model, a demonstration to assess the impact of care coordination for ESRD patients in a dialysis-center oriented ACO setting. Each ESCO JV has a shared risk arrangement with CMS and the programs are evaluated on a performance year basis. The delivery of improved quality outcomes for patients and program savings depend on the contributions of the dialysis center teammates, nephrologists, health system and hospital partners, pharmacy providers, other primary care and specialty care providers and facilities, and integrated care management support from DaVita IKC, which is also the manager of the ESCO JVs. The CEC Model ended the South Florida ESCO JV program on December 31, 2020, while the Phoenix-Tucson Arizona and Philadelphia Pennsylvania-Camden, New Jersey programs are scheduled to end on March 31, 2021.
•Clinical research programs. DaVita Clinical Research (DCR) is a provider-based specialty clinical research organization with a full spectrum of services for clinical drug research and device development. DCR uses its extensive, applied database and real-world healthcare experience to assist in the design, recruitment and completion of retrospective and prospective pragmatic and clinical trials. Revenues are based upon an established fee per study, as determined by contract with drug companies and other sponsors and are recognized as earned according to the contract terms.
For additional discussion of our ancillary services and strategic initiatives, see Item 7, "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations".
11

International dialysis operations
As of December 31, 2020, we operated or provided administrative services to a total of 321 outpatient dialysis centers, which includes consolidated and nonconsolidated centers located in ten countries outside of the U.S., serving approximately 36,200 patients. Our international dialysis operations have continued to grow steadily and expand as a result of acquiring and developing outpatient dialysis centers in various strategic markets. Our international operations are included as part of our ancillary services and strategic initiatives.
The locations of our international outpatient dialysis centers are as follows: 
Brazil	69 		Poland	68 		Germany	59 		
Malaysia(1)
39 		Colombia	28 		Saudi Arabia	23 		United Kingdom	21 		Portugal	9 		
Singapore(1)
3 		
China(1)
2 		 	321 	 
  
(1)Includes centers that are operated or managed by our Asia Pacific joint venture (APAC JV).
Corporate administrative support
Corporate administrative support consists primarily of labor, benefits and long-term incentive compensation costs for departments which provide support to all of our different operating lines of business. These expenses are included in our consolidated general and administrative expenses.
Government regulation
We operate in a complex regulatory environment with an extensive and evolving set of federal, state and local governmental laws, regulations and other requirements. These laws, regulations and other requirements are promulgated and overseen by a number of different legislative, regulatory, administrative and quasi-regulatory bodies, each of which may have varying interpretations, judgments or related guidance. As such, we utilize considerable resources on an ongoing basis to monitor, assess and respond to applicable legislative, regulatory and administrative requirements, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful in our efforts to adhere to all of these requirements. Additional discussion on certain of these laws, regulations and other requirements is set forth below in this section.
The foregoing are each themselves comprised of numerous associated regulations or other requirements that have varying levels of impact on our business. If any of our personnel, representatives or operations are found to violate these laws, regulations or other requirements, we could suffer severe consequences that would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could materially harm our reputation and stock price, including, among others:
•Loss of required certifications, suspension or exclusion from or termination of our participation in government programs (including Medicare, Medicaid and CMMI demonstration programs);
•Refunds of amounts received in violation of law or applicable payment program requirements dating back to the applicable statute of limitation periods;
•Loss of licenses required to operate healthcare facilities or administer pharmaceuticals in the states in which we operate;
•Reductions in payment rates or coverage for dialysis and ancillary services and pharmaceuticals;
•Criminal or civil liability, fines, damages or monetary penalties, which could be material and/or could materially harm our reputation or stock price;
12

•Imposition of corporate integrity agreements or consent agreements;
•Enforcement actions, investigations, or audits by governmental agencies and/or state law claims for monetary damages by patients who believe their protected health information (PHI) has been used, disclosed or not properly safeguarded in violation of federal or state patient privacy laws, including, among others, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) and the Privacy Act of 1974;
•Mandated changes to our practices or procedures that significantly increase operating expenses that could subject us to ongoing audits and reporting requirements as well as increased scrutiny of our billing and business practices, which could lead to potential fines, among other things;
•Termination of various relationships and/or contracts related to our business, such as joint venture arrangements, medical director agreements, real estate leases and consulting agreements with physicians; and
•Harm to our reputation which could negatively impact our business relationships and stock price, affect our ability to attract and retain patients, physicians and teammates, affect our ability to obtain financing and decrease access to new business opportunities, among other things.
We expect that our industry will continue to be subject to extensive and complex regulation, the scope and effect of which are difficult to predict. We are currently subject to various legal proceedings, such as lawsuits, investigations, audits and inquiries by various government and regulatory agencies, as further described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements, and our operations and activities could be reviewed or challenged by regulatory authorities at any time in the future. For additional detail on risks related to each of the foregoing, see the discussion in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the headings, "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation"; and "We are, and may in the future be, a party to various lawsuits, demands, claims, qui tam suits, governmental investigations and audits and other legal matters, any of which could result in, among other things, substantial financial penalties or awards against us, mandated refunds, substantial payments made by us, required changes to our business practices, exclusion from future participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs and possible criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price."
Licensure and Certification
Our dialysis centers are certified by CMS, as required for the receipt of Medicare payments. Certain of our payor contracts also condition payment on Medicare certification. In some states, our outpatient dialysis centers also are required to secure additional state licenses and permits. Governmental authorities, primarily state departments of health, periodically inspect our centers to determine if we satisfy applicable federal and state standards and requirements, including the conditions for coverage in the Medicare ESRD program.
We have experienced some delays in obtaining Medicare certifications from CMS, though recent changes by CMS in the prioritizing of dialysis providers as well as legislation allowing private entities to perform initial dialysis facility surveys for certification has helped to decrease or limit certain delays.
In addition, in November 2019, CMS finalized updates to the Provider Enrollment Rule creating onerous disclosure obligations for all providers enrolled in Medicare, Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Plan (CHIP). The final rule implements greater revocation authority and increases the bar for re-enrollment for providers who are terminated from the Medicare program. It also institutes penalties for providers who submit incomplete or inaccurate information or who have affiliations with other providers that CMS has determined pose undue risk of fraud, waste or abuse. If we fail to comply with these and other applicable requirements on our licensure and certification programs, particularly in light of increased penalties that include a 10-year bar to re-enrollment, under certain circumstances it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and reputation.
Federal Anti-Kickback Statute
The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, or order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federal and state healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid.
13

Federal criminal penalties for the violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include imprisonment, fines and exclusion of the provider from future participation in the federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are punishable by imprisonment for up to ten years and fines of up to $100,000 or both. Larger fines can be imposed upon corporations under the provisions of the U.S. Sentencing Guidelines and the Alternate Fines Statute. Individuals and entities convicted of violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are subject to mandatory exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs for a minimum of five years. Civil penalties for violation of this law include up to $100,000 in monetary penalties per violation, repayments of up to three times the total payments between the parties to the arrangement and suspension from future participation in Medicare and Medicaid. Court decisions have held that the statute may be violated even if only one purpose of remuneration is to induce referrals. The ACA amended the federal Anti-Kickback Statute to clarify the intent that is required to prove a violation. Under the statute as amended, the defendant may not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or have the specific intent to violate it. In addition, the ACA amended the federal Anti-Kickback Statute to provide that any claims for items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are considered false or fraudulent for purposes of the False Claims Act (FCA).
The federal Anti-Kickback Statute includes statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors that protect certain arrangements. Business transactions and arrangements that are structured to comply fully with an applicable safe harbor do not violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Transactions and arrangements that do not satisfy all elements of a relevant safe harbor do not necessarily violate the law. When an arrangement does not satisfy a safe harbor, the arrangement must be evaluated on a case-by-case basis in light of the parties’ intent and the arrangement’s potential for abuse. Arrangements that do not satisfy a safe harbor may be subject to greater scrutiny by enforcement agencies.
On November 20, 2020, HHS' Office of Inspector General (OIG) and CMS released a final rule implementing modifications to the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute and Civil Monetary Penalties Statute that are intended to promote value-based and coordinated care arrangements as well as reduce other regulatory burdens. The changes implemented by the final rules went into effect on January 19, 2021. We continue to assess the anticipated impact of these modifications on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
DaVita and its subsidiaries enter into several arrangements with physicians and other potential referral sources, that potentially implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute, such as:
Medical director agreements. Because our medical directors may refer patients to our dialysis centers, our arrangements with these physicians are designed to substantially comply with the safe harbor for personal service arrangements. Although we endeavor to structure the Medical Director Agreements we enter into with physicians to substantially comply with the safe harbor for personal service arrangements, including the requirement that compensation be consistent with fair market value, the safe harbor requires that when services are provided on a part-time basis, the agreement must specify the schedule of intervals of services, and their precise length and the exact charge for such services. Because of the nature of our medical directors’ duties, it is impossible to fully satisfy this technical element of the safe harbor. As a result, these arrangements could be subject to scrutiny since they do not expressly describe the schedule of part-time services to be provided under the arrangement.
Joint ventures. As noted above, we own a controlling interest in numerous U.S. dialysis related joint ventures. Our internal policies, procedures, and template agreements were developed and are utilized for compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute. However, we recognize that at times these joint ventures do not fully satisfy all of the requirements of the safe harbor for investments in small entities. Although failure to comply with a safe harbor does not render an arrangement illegal under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, an arrangement that does not operate within a safe harbor may be subject to scrutiny by both federal and state government enforcement agencies including the OIG and the Department of Justice (DOJ). Joint ventures that fall outside the safe harbors are evaluated on a case-by-case basis under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute.
Lease arrangements. We lease space from entities in which physicians, hospitals or medical groups hold ownership interests, and we sublease space to referring physicians. We endeavor to structure these arrangements to comply with the federal Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor for space rentals in all material respects.
Consulting agreements. From time to time, we enter into consulting agreements with physicians. Engaged physicians provide services including providing input on processes, services and protocols as well as providing education on assorted topics. We endeavor to structure these arrangements to comply with the federal Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor for personal services in all material respects.
Employment and coverage agreements. Our subsidiary Nephrology Practice Solutions and its affiliated entities employs and contracts with physicians and Advanced Practice Providers to provide administrative and clinical services. We endeavor to structure these arrangements to comply with the federal Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor for employment and personal services in all material respects.
14

Common stock. Some referring physicians may own our common stock. We believe that these interests materially satisfy the requirements of the Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor for investments in large publicly traded companies.
Discounts. Our dialysis centers and subsidiaries sometimes acquire certain items and services at a discount that may be reimbursed by a federal healthcare program. We endeavor to structure our vendor contracts that include discount or rebate provisions to comply with the federal Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor for discounts.
If any of our business transactions or arrangements, including those described above, were found to violate the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, we, among other things, could face criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other state and federal healthcare programs. Any findings that we have violated these laws could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price.
Stark Law
The Stark Law prohibits a physician who has a financial relationship, or who has an immediate family member who has a financial relationship, with entities providing Designated Health Services (DHS), from referring Medicare and Medicaid patients to such entities for the furnishing of DHS, unless an exception applies. DHS is defined to mean any of the following enumerated items or services; clinical laboratory services; physical therapy services; occupational therapy services; radiology services, including magnetic resonance imaging, computerized axial tomography scans, and ultrasound services; radiation therapy services and supplies; durable medical equipment and supplies; parenteral and enteral nutrients, equipment, and supplies; prosthetics, orthotics and prosthetic devices and supplies; home health services; outpatient prescription drugs; inpatient and outpatient hospital services; and outpatient speech-language pathology services. The types of financial arrangements between a physician and a DHS entity that trigger the self-referral prohibitions of the Stark Law are broad and include direct and indirect ownership and investment interests and compensation arrangements. The Stark Law also prohibits the DHS entity receiving a prohibited referral from presenting, or causing to be presented, a claim or billing for the services arising out of the prohibited referral. The prohibition applies regardless of the reasons for the financial relationship and the referral; unlike the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, intent to induce referrals is not required. If the Stark Law is implicated, the financial relationship must fully satisfy a Stark Law exception. If an exception is not satisfied, then the parties to the arrangement could be subject to sanctions. Sanctions for violation of the Stark Law include denial of payment for claims for services provided in violation of the prohibition, refunds of amounts collected in violation of the prohibition, a civil penalty of up to $15,000 for each service arising out of the prohibited referral, a civil penalty of up to $100,000 against parties that enter into a scheme to circumvent the Stark Law prohibition, civil assessment of up to three times the amount claimed, and potential exclusion from the federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid. Amounts collected for prohibited claims must be reported and refunded generally within 60 days after the date on which the overpayment was identified. Furthermore, Stark Law violations and failure to return overpayments timely can form the basis for FCA liability as discussed below.
The definition of DHS under the Stark Law excludes services paid under a composite rate, even if some of the components bundled in the composite rate are DHS. Although the ESRD bundled payment system is no longer titled a composite rate, we believe that the former composite rate payment system and the current bundled system are both composite systems excluded from the Stark Law. Since most services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries provided in our dialysis centers are reimbursed through a bundled rate, the services performed in our facilities generally are not DHS, and the Stark Law referral prohibition does not apply to those services. Certain separately billable drugs (drugs furnished to an ESRD patient that are not for the treatment of ESRD that CMS allows our centers to bill for using the so-called AY modifier) may be considered DHS. However, we have implemented certain billing controls designed to limit DHS being billed out of our dialysis clinics. Likewise, the definition of inpatient hospital services, for purposes of the Stark Law, also excludes inpatient dialysis performed in hospitals that are not certified to provide ESRD services. Consequently, our arrangements with such hospitals for the provision of dialysis services to hospital inpatients do not trigger the Stark Law referral prohibition.
In addition, although prescription drugs are DHS, there is an exception in the Stark Law for calcimimetics, EPO and other specifically enumerated dialysis drugs when furnished in or by an ESRD facility such that the arrangement for the furnishing of the drugs does not violate the Stark Law.
We have entered into several types of financial relationships with referring physicians, including compensation arrangements. If our dialysis centers were to bill for a non-exempted drug and the financial relationships with the referring physician did not satisfy an exception, we could be required to change our practices, face civil penalties, pay substantial fines, return certain payments received from Medicare and beneficiaries or otherwise experience a material adverse effect as a result of a challenge to payments made pursuant to referrals from these physicians under the Stark Law. Additionally, certain of our subsidiaries, were they to bill DHS, would implicate the Stark Law. As such we endeavor to structure arrangements with relevant physicians to fit within the existing exceptions to the Stark Law. If we were to fail to satisfy an applicable exception,
15

we could similarly be required to change practices, face penalties and fines, return certain payments or otherwise face adverse consequences.
On December 2, 2020, CMS released a final rule implementing modifications to the Stark Law. The purpose of these modifications is to promote value-based and coordinated care arrangements as well as reduce other regulatory burdens. The changes implemented by the final rules went into effect on January 19, 2021. We continue to assess the anticipated impact of these modifications on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Medical director agreements. We endeavor to structure our medical director agreements to satisfy the personal services arrangement exception to the Stark Law. While we believe that the compensation provisions included in our medical director agreements are the result of arm’s length negotiations and result in fair market value payments for medical director services, an enforcement agency could nevertheless challenge the level of compensation that we pay our medical directors.
Lease agreements. We lease space from entities in which referring physicians hold interests and we sublease space to referring physicians at some of our dialysis centers. The Stark Law provides an exception for lease arrangements if specific requirements are met. We endeavor to structure our leases and subleases with referring physicians to satisfy the requirements for this exception.
Consulting agreements. From time to time, we enter into consulting agreements with physicians. Engaged physicians provide services including providing input on processes, services and protocols as well as providing education on assorted topics. We endeavor to structure these arrangements to comply with the Stark Law exception for personal services.
Employment agreements. We employ physicians to provide administrative and clinical services. We endeavor to structure these arrangements to comply with the relevant Stark Law exceptions.
Common stock. Some referring physicians may own our common stock. We believe that these interests satisfy the Stark Law exception for investments in large publicly traded companies.
Joint ventures. Some of our referring physicians also own equity interests in entities that operate our dialysis centers and subsidiaries. We believe that none of the Stark Law exceptions applicable to physician ownership interests in entities to which they make DHS referrals apply to the kinds of ownership arrangements that referring physicians hold in several of our subsidiaries that operate dialysis centers. Accordingly, these dialysis centers do not bill Medicare for DHS, if any, when provided based on the referral from any physician owners. If the dialysis centers bill for DHS referred by physician owners, the dialysis centers or subsidiaries could be subject to the Stark Law penalties described above unless a relevant exception to the Stark Law applies.
Ancillary services. The operations of our ancillary and subsidiary businesses are also subject to compliance with the Stark Law, and any failure to comply with these requirements, particularly in light of the strict liability nature of the Stark Law, could subject these operations to the Stark Law penalties and sanctions described above.
If CMS or other regulatory or enforcement authorities determined that we have submitted claims in violation of the Stark Law, or otherwise violated the Stark Law, we would be subject to the penalties described above. In addition, it might be necessary to restructure existing compensation agreements with our medical directors and to repurchase or to request the sale of ownership interests in subsidiaries and partnerships held by referring physicians or, alternatively, to refuse to accept referrals for DHS from these physicians, or take other actions to modify our operations. Any such penalties and restructuring or other required actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, stock price and reputation.
Fraud and abuse under state law
Some states in which we operate dialysis centers have laws prohibiting physicians from holding financial interests in various types of medical facilities to which they refer patients. Some of these laws could potentially be interpreted broadly as prohibiting physicians who hold shares of our publicly traded stock or are physician owners from referring patients to our dialysis centers if the centers use our laboratory subsidiary to perform laboratory services for their patients or do not otherwise satisfy an exception to the law. States also have laws similar to or stricter than the federal Anti-Kickback Statute that may affect our ability to receive referrals from physicians with whom we have financial relationships, such as our medical directors. Some state anti-kickback laws also include civil and criminal penalties. Some of these laws include exemptions that may be applicable to our medical directors and other physician relationships or for financial interests limited to shares of publicly traded stock. Some, however, may include no explicit exemption for certain types of agreements and/or relationships entered into with physicians. If these laws are interpreted to apply to referring physicians with whom we contract for medical director and similar services, to referring physicians with whom we hold joint ownership interests or to referring physicians who hold interests in
16

DaVita Inc. limited solely to our publicly traded stock, and for which no applicable exception exists, we may be required to terminate or restructure our relationships with or refuse referrals from these referring physicians and could be subject to criminal, civil and administrative sanctions, refund requirements and exclusions from government healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, reputation and stock price.
Corporate Practice of Medicine and Fee-Splitting
There are states in which we operate that have laws that prohibit business entities, such as our Company and our subsidiaries, from practicing medicine, employing physicians to practice medicine or exercising control over medical decisions by physicians (known collectively as the corporate practice of medicine). These states also prohibit entities from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as fee-splitting, with physicians. In some states these prohibitions are expressly stated in a statute or regulation, while in other states the prohibition is a matter of judicial or regulatory interpretation. Violations of the corporate practice of medicine vary by state and may result in physicians being subject to disciplinary action, as well as to forfeiture of revenues from payors for services rendered. For lay entities, violations may also bring both civil and, in more extreme cases, criminal liability for engaging in medical practice without a license. Some of the relevant laws, regulations, and agency interpretations in states with corporate practice of medicine restrictions have been subject to limited judicial and regulatory interpretation. Moreover, state laws are subject to change.
False Claims Act
The federal FCA is a means of policing false bills or false requests for payment in the healthcare delivery system. In part, the FCA authorizes the imposition of up to three times the government’s damages and civil penalties on any person who, among other acts:
•Knowingly presents or causes to be presented to the federal government, a false or fraudulent claim for payment or approval;
•Knowingly makes, uses or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim;
•Knowingly makes, uses, or causes to be made or used, a false record or statement material to an obligation to pay the government, or knowingly conceals or knowingly and improperly, avoids or decreases an obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government; or
•Conspires to commit the above acts.
In addition, amendments to the FCA impose severe penalties for the knowing and improper retention of overpayments collected from government payors. Under these provisions, within 60 days of identifying and quantifying an overpayment, a provider is required to follow certain notification and repayment processes. An overpayment impermissibly retained could subject us to liability under the FCA, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and penalties under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty statute. As a result of these provisions, our procedures for identifying and processing overpayments may be subject to greater scrutiny.
On June 19, 2020, the DOJ issued a final rule announcing penalties for a violation of the FCA ranging from $11,665 to $23,331 for each false claim, plus up to three times the amount of damages caused by each false claim, which can be as much as the amounts received directly or indirectly from the government for each such false claim. The federal government has used the FCA to prosecute a wide variety of alleged false claims and fraud allegedly perpetrated against Medicare and state healthcare programs, including coding errors, billing for services not rendered, the submission of false cost reports, billing for services at a higher payment rate than appropriate, billing under a comprehensive code as well as under one or more component codes included in the comprehensive code and billing for care that is not considered medically necessary. The ACA provides that claims tainted by a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute are false for purposes of the FCA. Some courts have held that filing claims or failing to refund amounts collected in violation of the Stark Law can form the basis for liability under the FCA. In addition to the provisions of the FCA, which provide for civil enforcement, the federal government can use several criminal statutes to prosecute persons who are alleged to have submitted false or fraudulent claims for payment to the federal government.
Civil Monetary Penalties Statute
The Civil Monetary Penalties Statute, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7a, authorizes the imposition of civil money penalties, assessments, and exclusion against an individual or entity based on a variety of prohibited conduct, including, but not limited to:
17

•Presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that the individual or entity knows or should know are for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent;
•Offering remuneration to a Federal healthcare program beneficiary that the individual or entity knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary to order or receive healthcare items or services form a particular provider;
•Arranging contracts with an entity or individual excluded from participation in the Federal healthcare programs;
•Violating the federal Anti-Kickback Statute;
•Making, using, or causing to be made or used, a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim for payment for items and services furnished under a Federal healthcare program;
•Making, using, or causing to be made any false statement, omission, or misrepresentation of a material fact in any application, bid, or contract to participate or enroll as a provider of services or a supplier under a Federal healthcare program; and
•Failing to report and return an overpayment owed to the federal government.
Substantial civil monetary penalties may be imposed under the federal Civil Monetary Penalty Statute and vary, depending on the underlying violation. In addition, an assessment of not more than three times the total amount claimed for each item or service may also apply, and a violator may be subject to exclusion from Federal and state healthcare programs.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
We are subject to the provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) in the United States and similar laws in other countries, which generally prohibit companies and those acting on their behalf from making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. A violation of the FCPA by us and/or our agents or representatives could result in, among other things, the imposition of fines and penalties, changes to our business practices, the termination of our contracts or debarment from bidding on contracts, and/or harm to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Privacy and Security
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and its implementing privacy and security regulations, as amended by the federal Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH Act), (collectively referred to as HIPAA), require us to provide certain protections to patients and their health information. The HIPAA privacy and security regulations extensively regulate the use and disclosure of PHI and require covered entities, which include healthcare providers, to implement and maintain administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the security of such information. Additional security requirements apply to electronic PHI. These regulations also provide patients with substantive rights with respect to their health information.
The HIPAA privacy and security regulations also require us to enter into written agreements with certain contractors, known as business associates, to whom we disclose PHI. Covered entities may be subject to penalties for, among other activities, failing to enter into a business associate agreement where required by law or as a result of a business associate violating HIPAA if the business associate is found to be an agent of the covered entity and acting within the scope of the agency. Business associates are also directly subject to liability under the HIPAA privacy and security regulations. In instances where we act as a business associate to a covered entity, there is the potential for additional liability beyond our status as a covered entity.
Covered entities must report breaches of unsecured PHI to affected individuals without unreasonable delay but not to exceed 60 days of discovery of the breach by a covered entity or its agents. Notification must also be made to the HHS, and, for breaches of unsecured PHI involving more than 500 residents of a state or jurisdiction, to the media. All non-permitted uses or disclosures of unsecured PHI are presumed to be breaches unless the covered entity or business associate establishes that there is a low probability the information has been compromised. Various state laws and regulations may also require us to notify affected individuals in the event of a data breach involving individually identifiable information without regard to whether there is a low probability of the information being compromised.
Penalties for impermissible use or disclosure of PHI were increased by the HITECH Act by imposing tiered penalties of more than $50,000 per violation and up to $1.5 million per year for identical violations. In addition, HIPAA provides for criminal penalties of up to $250,000 and ten years in prison, with the severest penalties for obtaining and disclosing PHI with
18

the intent to sell, transfer or use such information for commercial advantage, personal gain or malicious harm. Further, state attorneys general may bring civil actions seeking either injunction or damages in response to violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations that threaten the privacy of state residents.
In addition to the protection of PHI, healthcare companies must meet privacy and security requirements applicable to other categories of personal information. Companies may process consumer information in conjunction with website and corporate operations. They may also handle employee information, including Social Security Numbers, payroll information, and other categories of sensitive information, to further their employment practices. In processing this additional information, companies must comply with the privacy and security requirements of consumer protection laws, labor and employment laws, and its publicly-available notices.
Data protection laws are evolving globally, and may add additional compliance costs and legal risks to our international operations. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became effective on May 25, 2018. The GDPR applies to entities that are established in the European Union (EU), as well as extends the scope of EU data protection laws to foreign companies processing data of individuals in the EU. The GDPR imposes a comprehensive data protection regime with the potential for regulatory fines as well as data breach litigation by impacted data subjects. Under GDPR, regulatory penalties may be passed by data protection authorities for up to the greater of 4% of worldwide turnover or €20 million. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the GDPR and other new laws, regulations and policies implementing the GDPR may impact our European operations and/or limit the ways in which we can provide services or use personal data collected while providing services. In July 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued an opinion in the Schrems II case that invalidated the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield as a basis for transferring EU personal data to the U.S. The Court upheld European Commission-approved Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) as a basis for transfers of EU personal data to the United States, but imposed additional compliance burdens on companies to ensure their ability to comply with such contractual obligations. In October 2020, the U.S. government has issued guidance to companies on how to assess their ability to comply with transfer obligations, and in November 2020, the European Data Protection Board (EDPB), tasked with overseeing compliance with the GDPR, published, further to its initial guidance, its recommendations on measures to supplement data transfer rules to ensure compliance with EEA data protection law. In addition, the European Commission has also published a draft implementing a decision on new SCCs for the transfer of personal data to third countries which may be a significant task to put into place given its requirements. These developments add a layer of complexity to compliance efforts around international data transfers and compliance with the GDPR. If we fail to comply with the requirements of GDPR, we could be subject to penalties that would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Data protection laws are also evolving nationally, and may add additional compliance costs and legal risks to our U.S. operations. For example, the California Consumer Protection Act (CCPA) became effective January 1, 2020 and enforceable by the California Attorney General on July 1, 2020. The CCPA is a privacy law that requires certain companies doing business in California to enhance privacy disclosures regarding the collection, use and sharing of a consumer's personal data. The CCPA grants consumers additional privacy rights that are broader than current Federal privacy rights. The CCPA also permits the imposition of civil penalties, grants enforcement authority to the state Attorney General and provides a private right of action for consumers where certain personal information is breached due to unreasonable information security practices. Since its passage, several other states, including Nevada and Maine, have expanded their state data protection laws, and other states are considering similar legislation. These laws impose organizational requirements and grant individual rights that are comparable to those established in the CCPA. Additionally, in November 2020, California voters passed the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA). The CPRA, which is expected to take effect on January 2023, significantly expands the data protection obligations imposed by the CCPA on companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes, limitations on data uses, and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It also will create a new California data protection agency to enforce the law, and require certain businesses with higher risk privacy and security practices to submit annual audits to the agency on a regular basis. The CPRA will likely result in broader increased regulatory scrutiny in California of businesses’ privacy and security practices, could lead to a further rise in data protection litigation, and will require additional compliance investment and potential business process changes in the meantime.
In addition to the breach reporting requirements under HIPAA, companies are subject to state breach notification laws. Each state enforces a law requiring companies to provide notice of a breach of certain categories of sensitive personal information, e.g. Social Security Number, financial account information, or username and password. A company impacted by a breach must notify affected individuals, attorney’s general or other agencies within a certain time frame. If a company does not provide timely notice with the required content, it may be subject to civil penalties brought by attorney’s generals or affected individuals.
Companies must also safeguard personal information in accordance with federal and state data security laws and requirements. These requirements are akin to the HIPAA requirements to safeguard PHI, described above. The Federal Trade Commission, for example, requires companies to implement reasonable data security measures relative to its operations and the
19

volume and complexity of the information it processes. Also, various state data security laws require companies to safeguard data with technical security controls and underlying policies and processes. Due to the constant changes in the data security space, companies must continuously review and update data security practices to mitigate any potential operational or legal liabilities stemming from data security risks.
Healthcare reform
In March 2010, broad healthcare reform legislation was enacted in the U.S. through the ACA, but the ACA’s regulatory framework and other healthcare reforms continue to evolve as a result of executive, legislative, regulatory and administrative developments and judicial proceedings. There have been multiple attempts to repeal or amend the ACA through legislative action and legal challenges, and the most recent challenge is currently before the U.S. Supreme Court. A repeal or other significant change to the ACA could have a material impact on our business if, for example, programs under the ACA were cancelled, including, among others, Medicaid expansion, CMMI models or the health insurance exchanges. Our revenue and operating income levels are highly sensitive to the percentage of our patients with higher-paying commercial health insurance and any legislative, regulatory or other changes that decrease the accessibility and availability, including the duration, of commercial insurance may have a material adverse impact on our business. In the event the health insurance exchange markets are significantly impaired as a result of legislative developments or other changes, it may adversely impact the percentage of our patients with higher-paying commercial health insurance, particularly if patients become unemployed due to factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise and are unable to turn to the exchanges as an alternative to employer-based coverage.
Any changes in legislation, regulation or market conditions in connection with or resulting from the recent elections, could also impact our business in a number of ways, some of which may be material. For example, proposed legislative developments or administrative decisions, such as the creation of a public health insurance option similar to Medicare, government programs that impact access to Medicaid expansion or funding to families to purchase plans through health insurance exchanges or changes to the eligibility age for Medicare beneficiaries, eliminating the eligibility cap for the advance premium tax credit (APTC) and enhancing activities aimed at enrolling eligible individuals in Medicaid could impact the percentage of our patients with higher-paying commercial health insurance, impact the scope of coverage under commercial health plans and increase our expenses, among other things. Particularly in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, considerable uncertainty exists surrounding the continued development of the ACA and related regulations, programs and models, as well as similar healthcare reform measures and/or other potential changes at the federal and/or state level to laws, regulations and other requirements that govern our business.
New models of care and Medicare and Medicaid program reforms
As noted above, the 2019 Executive Order directed CMS to create payment models to evaluate the effects of creating payment incentives for the greater use of home dialysis and kidney transplants for those already on dialysis. CMS, through CMMI, published the final ETC mandatory payment model on September 18, 2020. The ETC will be administered through CMMI and launched in approximately 30% of dialysis clinics across the country on January 1, 2021.
In addition, CMS also announced the implementation of four voluntary kidney care payment models with the stated goal of helping healthcare providers reduce the cost and improve the quality of care for patients with late-stage chronic kidney disease and ESRD. CMS has stated these payment models are aimed to prevent or delay the need for dialysis and encourage kidney transplantation. These payment models have a scheduled commencement date of April 2021, though applicants now have the option to delay implementation until January 2022. Though we have applied for, and been provisionally accepted to participate in certain of these voluntary models, we continue to assess these models and their viability for us and the industry. These voluntary models continue CMMI’s prior work with various healthcare providers to develop, refine and implement ACOs and other innovative models of care for Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, including, without limitation, the CEC Model (which includes the development of ESRD Seamless Care Organizations), the Duals Demonstration, and other models. We participated in the CEC Model with CMMI, including with organizations in Arizona, Florida, and adjacent markets in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The CEC ESCOs Model overall ended in Florida in December 2020, while the Arizona and adjacent markets in New Jersey and Pennsylvania are scheduled to end in March 2021. We may choose to participate in additional models either as a partner with other providers or independently. Even in areas where we are not directly participating in these or other CMMI models, some of our patients may be assigned to an ACO, another ESRD Care Model, or another program, in which case the quality and cost of care that we furnish will be included in an ACO's, another ESRD Care Model's, or other program's calculations.
In addition, as to the aforementioned new models of care, federal bipartisan legislation related to full capitation demonstration for ESRD was introduced in Congress in September 2020 as the BETTER Kidney Care Act. This proposed legislation, which has not secured introduction in the current Congress, would build on prior coordinated care models, such as the CEC Model, and would establish a demonstration program for the provision of integrated care to Medicare fee-for-service
20

dialysis and transplant patients. We have made and continue to make investments in building our integrated care capabilities, but there can be no assurances that initiatives such as this or similar legislation will be introduced or passed into law, and the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may delay the progress of any such initiatives. If such legislation is passed, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully execute on the required strategic initiatives that would allow us to provide a competitive and successful integrated care program on the broader scale contemplated by legislation like this, and in the desired time frame. Additionally, the ultimate terms and conditions of any such potential legislation remain unclear. For example, our costs of care could exceed our associated reimbursement rates under such legislation. For additional detail on the evolving health care landscape and associated developments in our competitive environment, see the risk factor in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading "If we are unable to compete successfully, including, without limitation, implementing our growth strategy and/or retaining patients and physicians willing to serve as medical directors, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
CMS has also issued final rules related to the Cures Act. The Cures Act included a provision that, effective January 1, 2021, allows Medicare eligible beneficiaries with ESRD to choose coverage under a Medicare Part C MA managed care plan. This provision could broaden access to certain enhanced benefits offered by MA plans. MA plans usually provide reimbursement to us at a negotiated rate that is generally higher than Medicare FFS rates. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of this change in benefit eligibility, as there remains significant uncertainty as to how many or which newly eligible ESRD patients will seek to enroll in MA plans for their ESRD benefits and how quickly any such changes would occur. This uncertainty may be heightened by components of the aforementioned final rules, which include a provision that, among other things, removes the objective time and distance standards relating to network adequacy for outpatient dialysis centers for MA plans. The removal of these standards could result in MA plans seeking to limit provider networks available to dialysis patients. If MA plans attempt to use this revision to the rules to limit or restrict their networks, this may adversely impact the number of ESRD patients that select MA plans and also may result in the Company not being an in-network provider for significant MA plans. For details on the risks associated with these changes, see the risk factors in Item 1A Risk Factors under the headings, "Our business is subject to a complex set of governmental laws, regulations and other requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation;" and "We continuously have ongoing negotiations with commercial payors, and if the average rates that commercial payors pay us decline significantly, if patients in commercial plans are subject to restriction in plan designs or if we are unable to maintain contracts with payors with competitive terms, including, without limitation, reimbursement rates, scope and duration of coverage and in-network benefits, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows".
The Cures Act also includes provisions related to data interoperability, information blocking, and patient access. CMS and the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC) recently issued final rules related to these provisions, which include, among other things, requirements surrounding information blocking, changes to ONC's Health IT Certification Program and requirements that CMS-regulated payors make relevant claims/care data and provider directory information available through standardized patient access and provider directory application programming interfaces (APIs) that connect to provider electronic health records. We have made and continue to make investments in building data interoperability capabilities, including as part of building on our integrated care capabilities as noted above, and continue to evaluate the potential impact of the CMS and ONC final rules.
In addition, recent price and patient responsibility transparency regulations require health plans to make certain pricing and patient responsibility information publicly available. Certain of the requirements went into effect January 1, 2021 while others will go into effect January 1, 2024. There is a possibility that any changes by health plans resulting from these regulations could impact our revenue and results of operations.
Other regulations
Our U.S. dialysis and related lab services operations are subject to various state hazardous waste and non-hazardous medical waste disposal laws. These laws do not classify as hazardous most of the waste produced from dialysis services. Occupational Safety and Health Administration regulations require employers to provide workers who are occupationally subject to blood or other potentially infectious materials with prescribed protections. These regulatory requirements apply to all healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers, and require employers to make a determination as to which employees may be exposed to blood or other potentially infectious materials and to have in effect a written exposure control plan. In addition, employers are required to provide or employ hepatitis B vaccinations, personal protective equipment and other safety devices, infection control training, post-exposure evaluation and follow-up, waste disposal techniques and procedures and work practice controls. Employers are also required to comply with various record-keeping requirements.
21

In addition, a few states in which we do business have certificate of need programs regulating the establishment or expansion of healthcare facilities, including dialysis centers.
State initiatives
There have been several state initiatives to limit payments to dialysis providers or impose other burdensome operational requirements, which, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operation, financial condition and cash flows. For example, on October 24, 2019, the Service Employees International Union - United Healthcare Workers West (SEIU) proposed a California statewide ballot initiative (Proposition 23) that sought to impose certain regulatory requirements on dialysis clinics, including requirements related to physician staffing levels, clinical reporting, clinical treatment options and limitations on the ability to make decisions on closing or reducing services for dialysis clinics. While this ballot initiative was rejected by voters in 2020, we incurred substantial costs to oppose it. We may face ballot initiatives or other proposed regulations or legislation in California or other states in future years, which may require us to incur further substantial costs and which, if passed, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.
Evolving proposed or issued laws, requirements, rules and guidance that impact our business, including as may be described above, and any failure on our part to adequately adjust to any resulting marketplace developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For additional discussion on the risks associated with the evolving payment and regulatory landscape for kidney care, see the discussion in Item 1A Risk Factors, including the discussion under the heading, "Our business is subject to a complex series of governmental laws, regulations and requirements and any failure to adhere to those requirements, or any changes in those requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, could materially harm our stock price, and in some circumstances, could materially harm our reputation" and "Changes in federal and state healthcare legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows".
Corporate compliance program
Our businesses are subject to extensive regulations. Management has designed and implemented a corporate compliance program as part of our commitment to comply fully with applicable criminal, civil and administrative laws and regulations and to maintain the high standards of conduct we expect from all of our teammates. We continuously review this program and work to enhance it as appropriate. The primary purposes of the program include:
•Assessing and identifying risks for existing and new businesses;
•Training and educating our teammates and affiliated professionals to promote awareness of legal and regulatory requirements, a culture of compliance, and the necessity of complying with all applicable laws, regulations and requirements;
•Developing and implementing compliance policies and procedures and creating controls to support compliance with applicable laws, regulations and requirements and our policies and procedures;
•Auditing and monitoring the activities of our operating units and business support functions to identify and mitigate risks and potential instances of noncompliance in a timely manner; and
•Ensuring that we promptly take steps to resolve any instances of noncompliance and address areas of weakness or potential noncompliance.
We have a code of conduct that each of our teammates, members of our Board of Directors, affiliated professionals and certain third parties must follow, and we have an anonymous compliance hotline for teammates and patients to report potential instances of noncompliance that is managed by a third party. Our Chief Compliance Officer administers the compliance program. The Chief Compliance Officer reports directly to our Chief Executive Officer and the Chair of the Compliance and Quality Committee of our Board of Directors (Board Compliance and Quality Committee). Previously, we were subject to a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with OIG. The term of the CIA expired on October 22, 2019, and we were notified on May 20, 2020 that the OIG had closed out its review. The CIA (i) required that we maintain certain elements of our compliance programs; (ii) imposed certain expanded compliance-related requirements during the term of the CIA; (iii) required ongoing monitoring and reporting by an independent monitor, imposed certain reporting, certification, records retention and training obligations, allocated certain oversight responsibility to the Board’s Compliance and Quality Committee, and necessitated the creation of a Management Compliance Committee and the retention of an independent compliance advisor to the Board; and (iv) contained certain business restrictions related to a subset of our joint venture arrangements.
22

Any future penalties, sanctions or other consequences could be more severe in certain circumstances if the OIG or a similar regulatory authority determines that we knowingly and repeatedly failed to comply with applicable laws, regulations or requirements that apply to our business, including substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, reputation and stock price.
Competition
The U.S. dialysis industry has experienced consolidation over the last 20 years, but remains highly competitive. Patient retention and the continued referrals of patients from referral sources such as hospitals and nephrologists, as well as acquiring or developing new outpatient dialysis centers are some of the important parts of our growth strategy. In our U.S. dialysis business, we continue to face intense competition from large and medium-sized providers, among others, which compete directly with us for limited acquisition targets, for individual patients who may choose to dialyze with us and for physicians qualified to provide required medical director services. Competition for growth in existing and expanding geographies or areas is intense and is not limited to large competitors with substantial financial resources or established participants in the dialysis space. We also compete with individual nephrologists, former medical directors or physicians that have opened their own dialysis units or facilities. Moreover, as we continue our international dialysis expansion into various international markets, we face competition from large and medium-sized providers, among others, for acquisition targets as well as physician relationships. We also experience competitive pressures from other dialysis providers in recruiting and retaining qualified skilled clinical personnel as well as in connection with negotiating contracts with commercial healthcare payors and inpatient dialysis service agreements with hospitals. Acquisitions, developing new outpatient dialysis centers, patient retention and physician relationships are significant components of our growth strategy and our business could be adversely affected if we are not able to continue to make dialysis acquisitions on reasonable and acceptable terms, continue to develop new outpatient dialysis centers, maintain or establish new relationships with physicians or if we experience significant patient attrition relative to our competitors.
Together with our largest competitor, Fresenius Medical Group (FMC), we account for approximately 73% of outpatient dialysis centers in the U.S. Many of the centers not owned by us, FMC or other large for profit dialysis providers are owned or controlled by hospitals or non-profit organizations. Hospital-based and non-profit dialysis units typically are more difficult to acquire than physician-owned dialysis centers.
FMC also manufactures a full line of dialysis supplies and equipment in addition to owning and operating outpatient dialysis centers worldwide. This may, among other things, give FMC cost advantages over us because of its ability to manufacture its own products. Additionally, FMC has been one of our largest suppliers of dialysis products and equipment over the last several years. In January 2021, upon the expiration of our prior agreement with FMC on December 31, 2020, we entered into and subsequently extended a new agreement with FMC to purchase a certain amount of dialysis equipment, parts and supplies from FMC which extends through December 31, 2024. The amount of purchases from FMC over the remaining term of this agreement will depend upon a number of factors, including the operating requirements of our centers, the number of centers we acquire, and growth of our existing centers.
There have been a number of announcements by non-traditional dialysis providers and others, which relate to entry into the dialysis and pre-dialysis space, the development of innovative technologies, or the commencement of new business activities that could be disruptive to the industry. These developments over time may shift the competitive landscape in which we operate. For additional discussion on these developments and associated risks, see the risk factor in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading, “If we are unable to compete successfully, including, without limitation, implementing our growth strategy and/or retaining patients and physicians willing to serve as medical directors, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.”
Insurance
We are predominantly self-insured with respect to professional and general liability and workers' compensation risks through wholly-owned captive insurance companies. We are also predominantly self-insured with respect to employee medical and other health benefits. We also maintain insurance, excess coverage, or reinsurance for property and general liability, professional liability, directors’ and officers’ liability, workers' compensation, cybersecurity and other coverage in amounts and on terms deemed appropriate by management, based on our actual claims experience and expectations for future claims. Future claims could, however, exceed our applicable insurance coverage. Physicians practicing at our dialysis centers are required to maintain their own malpractice insurance, and our medical directors are required to maintain coverage for their individual private medical practices. Our liability policies cover our medical directors for the performance of their duties as medical directors at our outpatient dialysis centers.
23

Human capital management
Overview
At DaVita, we are guided by our Mission—to be the provider, partner and employer of choice—and a set of Core Values—Service Excellence, Integrity, Team, Continuous Improvement, Accountability, Fulfillment and Fun—which are reinforced at all levels of the organization. Our teammates share a common passion for improving patients' lives and are the cornerstone for the health of DaVita.
We strive to be a community first and a company second, and affectionately call ourselves a Village. To be a healthy Village, we need to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified and diverse teammates. To do so, we have implemented strategies that support our mission to be the employer of choice, such as:
•Designing programs and processes to cultivate a diverse talent pipeline that allows us to hire ahead of needs;
•Providing development and professional growth opportunities; and
•Offering a robust total rewards program.
These efforts are underpinned by a foundational focus on diversity and belonging that starts at the top with our Board of Directors and executive leadership and permeates through our Village as further described below.
We believe that this intentional investment of time and resources fosters a special community of teammates that, in turn, inspires the Village to take better care of our patients and better care of the communities in which we live.
Oversight & Management
Our Board of Directors provides oversight on human capital matters, receiving regular updates from our Chief People Officer about People Services’ activities, strategies and initiatives, and through the Board’s annual work with our Chief Executive Officer on management development and succession planning. Among other things, our Board of Directors and/or its committees also receive reports related to pay equity, risks and trends related to labor and human capital management issues and general issues pertaining to our teammates. The Board also oversees the Company's activities, policies and programs related to corporate environmental and social responsibility, including considering the impact of such activities, policies and programs on the Company, teammates and communities.
These reports and recommendations to the Board and its committees are part of our broader People Services leadership and oversight framework, which includes guidance from various stakeholders across the business and benefits from the full participation of senior leadership.
Diversity & Belonging
Our investment in our teammates is underscored by our commitment to Diversity & Belonging (D&B). Our D&B vision is "a diverse Village where everyone belongs." Our 3,137 dialysis centers operate in communities large and small, in nearly every state in the U.S. as well as ten other countries: Brazil, China, Columbia, Germany, Malaysia, Poland, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, and the United Kingdom. Our Village's diversity is inherent in the teammates who work in our centers, the patients we care for, the physicians with whom we partner, and the communities where we serve.
To help achieve this vision, we empower all leaders and teammates to cultivate D&B in their centers and on their teams. One way we do this is by sharing tools and resources like our Belonging Teammate and Belonging Leader Guides, which encourage teammates to connect with each other to learn about individual experiences with belonging and better understand the impact of unconscious bias.
We take a collaborative, leader-led approach to building our D&B program. Everyone from our front-line patient care technicians (PCTs) and nurses to our divisional vice presidents, our CEO and our Board of Directors has a role in implementing our strategy. It truly does take a Village to bring our vision to life.
Over the past several years, our D&B efforts have focused primarily on supporting strong representation of women and people of color and ensuring that we are creating a welcoming, open environment where all teammates, patients, physicians and care partners belong.
As of December 31, 2020, our Village in the U.S. was comprised of 78% women and 54% people of color. We are proud of the fact that in the U.S. as of December 31, 2020, 74% of our managers and 54% of our directors are women and that leaders with profit and loss responsibility are 52% women and 27% people of color. We also are proud of the fact that our Board of
24

Directors is comprised of 44% women and 33% people of color. With respect to Board leadership positions, we are one of the few companies in the S&P 500 to have a woman serving as the Chair of the Board of Directors, and 75% of our Board committees are led by women or people of color.
Talent Pipeline and Career Development
We understand that a key component of developing strong representation of women and people of color in leadership is to have recruiting practices focused on diversity. Some of our practices include:
•Diverse Sourcing: Our recruiters are trained on how to source for diverse candidates to ensure we have a robust pipeline at all levels of the organization.
•Diverse Partnerships: We have external partnerships with organizations like Forte Foundation and Management Leadership for Tomorrow to help create equal opportunities for diverse candidates.
•Redwoods Leadership: We partner closely with diverse student body organizations at colleges and universities to source applicants for our Redwoods leadership development programs.
Helping teammates reach the next stage in their career and increasing their earnings potential is one of our passions. We have several career development programs that support teammates to further their careers. To help ensure that teammates have the support needed to succeed in their current roles, and grow their careers, we have invested in an end-to-end career development pipeline that includes programs and initiatives that provide financial, academic and social support to our clinical and operations personnel to help achieve their higher education and leadership goals. For example, approximately 86% of our teammates are clinical field/operations personnel, and we have programs in place to help guide their potential journey at DaVita. Beginning with programs that cover certification fees for PCTs to coaching and tuition programs that help guide PCTs to becoming registered nurses (RNs) to programs that help develop high potential nurses, clinical coordinators and clinic nurse managers into operational managers and ultimately to programs that prepare and coach operational managers for potential regional operations director roles, our goal is to make resources available to teammates at each step of a possible career path.
Total Rewards Program and Pay Equity
Our pay philosophy and practices are designed to be competitive in the local market and to reward strong team and individual performance. We believe merit-driven pay encourages teammates to do their best work, including in caring for our patients, and we strive to link pay to performance so we can continue to incentivize the provision of extraordinary care to our patients and grow our Village.
To help our teammates reach their full potential, we offer a total rewards package. More than just pay, our comprehensive compensation package connects teammates to robust health care coverage, resources for retirement planning and savings, opportunities for career development, and well-being resources for every stage of life.
To support our teammates in maintaining strong physical and mental health, we offer a variety of physical and mental health benefits programs, including, among other things:
•Teammate Assistance Program that offers counseling sessions annually to all teammates and their household members, along with work/life resources and tools that include telephonic or face to face legal consultation and expert financial planning/consultation.
•Free access to Headspace application for digital meditation and mindfulness and referrals/consultations on everyday issues such as dependent care, auto repair, pet care and home improvement.
•Vitality Points, a voluntary wellness incentive program that allows participating teammates and spouses/domestic partners to earn credits toward their medical premium for getting a biometric screening and engaging in healthy actions should they not meet certain targets.
•Short & Long term disability for full time teammates and Life/AD&D coverage at both the basic and supplemental levels.
•Our DaVita Village Network, which provides financial support to eligible teammates experiencing a specific tragedy or hardship and helps cover additional costs that local fundraising and insurance do not fully cover.
In support of our teammates and their families, we also offer family support programs that include family care programs for back-up child and elder care, parental support and parental leave programs. We also offer a number of scholarships for teammates' children and grandchildren.
25

We also offer a robust suite of financial well-being programs for eligible teammates including, among others, a 401(k) program with company match, an employee stock purchase plan, health savings account funding for certain high deductible health plans and a deferred compensation plan. We also offer DailyPay, a service that provides teammates with financial flexibility by allowing them to access earned but unpaid wages before payday for a nominal fee.
Pay Equity
At DaVita, we are committed to equal pay for equal work; meaning, teammates in the same position, performing at the same level, and in similar geographies, are paid fairly relative to one another, regardless of their gender, race or ethnicity. We believe that equitable pay is a critical component of establishing a fair work environment where all teammates are valued and feel like they belong. Fair pay is essential to our ability to attract and motivate the highly qualified, and diverse, teammates who are at the center of our current and future success.
Agile Response, Teammate Feedback and Responding to the Public Health Crisis
The COVID-19 pandemic tested our ability to respond to external developments and care for our teammates in real time. In response to the hardship imposed by the pandemic on our teammates, and in recognition of their dedication and commitment to our patients’ health, DaVita provided financial relief to over 50,000 teammates, such as a “Village Lives” award of $100 per week from March through May 2020, as well as other relief payments during the pandemic. In addition, we did not furlough, layoff or reduce pay for any teammates due to the pandemic. One of our key goals during the pandemic was to maintain frequent communication and engagement with teammates, including “town hall” calls, emails and more. As the pandemic has persisted, we continue to provide essential relief programs to support these teammates, including backup childcare, modified sick policies and certain increased overtime pay for front-line positions.
Most importantly, the health and safety of our teammates in the Village and their families remains a top priority throughout this ongoing pandemic. We implemented guidance early in the pandemic to help mitigate health and safety risks imposed by COVID-19, including, among other things:
•Securing necessary supplies of personal protective equipment;
•Restricting visitors to our centers;
•Screening teammates, patients and visitors for signs and symptoms of, or exposure to, COVID-19, before allowing entry into our clinics or business offices;
•Implementing an early universal masking policy; and
•Providing guidance on staying safe outside of our centers.
We also converted our live, in-person teammate and leadership development programs to virtual delivery, to help ensure that our teammates across our global Village could continue to grow personally and professionally and have access to career development resources despite the ongoing pandemic.
We believe our ability to engage with teammates and respond to these developments has helped us to better care for them. By caring for our teammates, we were generally able to maintain continuity of care for our patients and support the broader healthcare community throughout this unprecedented public health crisis.
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 67,000 teammates, including our international teammates.
For additional information about certain risks associated with our human capital management, see the risk factor in Item 1A Risk Factors under the heading, "If our labor costs continue to rise, including due to shortages, changes in certification requirements and/or higher than normal turnover rates in skilled clinical personnel; or currently pending or future governmental laws, rules, regulations or initiatives impose additional requirements or limitations on our operations or profitability; or, if we are unable to attract and retain key leadership talent, we may experience disruptions in our business operations and increases in operating expenses, among other things, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows."
We also encourage you to visit our website at www.davita.com for more detailed information regarding certain of the human capital related programs and initiatives described herein, including our Policy on Fair and Equitable Pay, as well as our efforts to care for our patients, our community and our world. Nothing on our website, sections thereof or documents linked thereto, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.
