We are a medical device company primarily focused on the design, development and commercialization of continuous glucose monitoring, or CGM, systems for use by people with diabetes and by healthcare providers. We received approval from the United States (U.S.) Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and commercialized our first product in 2006. We launched our latest generation system, the Dexcom G6® integrated Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, or G6, in 2018. Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” the “company,” or “Dexcom” refer to DexCom, Inc. and its subsidiaries. The mailing address of our headquarters is 6340 Sequence Drive, San Diego, California, 92121 and our telephone number at that location is (858) 200-0200. Our Internet website address is www.dexcom.com. We provide free access to various reports that we file with or furnish to the SEC through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. Information on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other report we file or furnish with the SEC. The reports are also available at www.sec.gov. Also available on our website are printable versions of our Audit Committee charter, Compensation Committee charter, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee charter, and Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Stockholders may request copies of these documents by mail or telephone, at the address or phone number provided above.
Products
Dexcom G7®
We are pursuing regulatory approvals for our next generation G7 CGM system. The G7 carries forward many of the same features as our G6 CGM system and adds several new or improved features, including
•Reduced size. A 60% reduction in size of the on-body wearable.
•Fully disposable. Sensor and transmitter combined into a single, disposable wearable.
•Simple application. New application process streamlines the number of steps required.
•Faster warmup. Warmup period expected to be reduced from the current two-hour warmup for G6.
•Reduced packaging waste. Significant reduction to the product packaging waste profile on a per unit basis.
Dexcom G6®
In March 2018, we obtained marketing authorization from the FDA for the G6 via the de novo process. The G6 is the first type of CGM system permitted by the FDA to be used as part of an integrated system with other compatible medical devices and electronic interfaces, which may include automated insulin dosing systems, insulin pumps, blood glucose meters or other electronic devices used for diabetes management. G6 and substantially equivalent devices of this generic type that may later receive marketing authorization are referred to as integrated continuous glucose monitoring systems, or iCGMs, and have been classified as Class II devices by the FDA. Along with this classification, the FDA established criteria, called special controls, which outline requirements for assuring CGM accuracy, reliability and clinical relevance, and which also describe the type of studies and data required to demonstrate acceptable CGM performance. The G6 is designed to allow our transmitter to run an algorithm to generate a glucose value and to communicate directly to a patient’s compatible mobile device, including iPhone®, iPod touch®, iPad®, and certain Android® mobile devices. A patient’s glucose data can also be displayed on wearable devices,
3

like the Apple Watch® and Wear OS by Google devices. The G6 transmitter has a labeled useful life of three months. Data from the G6 can be integrated with Dexcom CLARITY®, our cloud-based reporting software, for personalized, easy-to-understand analysis of trends that may improve diabetes management. In the United States, the G6 is covered by Medicare and Medicaid in the majority of states and by commercial insurers, subject to satisfaction of certain eligibility and coverage criteria for individuals with both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes.
In June 2018, we received Conformité Européenne Marking, or CE Mark, approval for the G6, which allows us to market the system in the European Union and the countries in Asia and Latin America that recognize the CE Mark, as well as New Zealand, though certain countries may require compliance with certain local administrative requirements and/or additional marketing authorizations (for example, the inclusion of medical devices on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods in Australia).
In October 2019, we also received marketing authorization from the FDA for the Dexcom G6 Pro, or G6 Pro, which allows healthcare professionals to purchase the G6 for use with their patients. The G6 Pro has many of same features as the G6 and is intended for healthcare professionals to use with their patients ages two years and up. The G6 Pro may be used in a blinded or unblinded mode for up to 10 days.
For the G6, the sensor is inserted by the user and is intended to be used continuously for up to 10 days, after which it may be replaced with a new disposable sensor. Our transmitter is reusable until it reaches the end of its use life. Our receiver is also reusable. As we establish an installed base of customers using our products, we expect to generate an increasing portion of our revenues through recurring sales of our disposable sensors.
The G6 carries forward important features of prior generation Dexcom CGM systems:
•Continuous glucose readings. Automatically sends glucose readings to a Dexcom receiver or compatible mobile device every five minutes.
•Mobile app and sharing. Compatibility with mobile device applications allows for sharing glucose information with other people for added support and care coordination.
•Customizable alarms and alerts. Personalized alert schedule immediately warns the user of pending dangerous high and low blood sugars.
The G6 also has a number of new or improved features compared to our prior generation devices:
•Finger stick elimination. No finger sticks are needed for calibration or diabetes treatment decisions, consistent with the instructions for use.
•Easy sensor application. Complete redesign of the sensor applicator allows for one-touch, simple self-insertion.
•Discreet and low profile. A redesigned transmitter with a 28% lower profile than the previous generation Dexcom CGM system makes the device comfortable and easy to wear under clothing.
•Medication blocking. New feature allows for more accurate glucose readings without interference from common medications taken at typical indication doses, such as acetaminophen.
•Predictive low alert. New alert feature intended to predict hypoglycemia before it hits to help avoid dangerous low blood sugar events.
•Extended 10-day disposable sensor. Up to 10-day sensor use allows for 43% longer wear than previous generation Dexcom CGM systems.
Other than the foregoing, the features of the G6 are generally consistent with our prior generation CGM systems in its technical capabilities and its indications. Since the G6 is classified by the FDA as a Class II device, it is subject to special controls and modifications of, or revisions to, the device may be made under the 510(k) process.
Global revenues associated with the sales of our previous commercial products, the Dexcom G4® Platinum CGM system and G5® Mobile CGM system, or G5 Mobile, amount to less than 10% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended 2020 and we anticipate phasing out these commercial products by the end of 2021.
Dexcom Share®
The Dexcom Share remote monitoring system, offered for use with any current Dexcom system, uses an app on the patient’s iPhone, iPod touch, iPad or Android mobile device to securely and wirelessly transmit glucose information to the cloud and then to apps on the mobile devices of up to five designated recipients, or “followers,” who can remotely monitor a patient’s glucose information and receive alert notifications anywhere they have a wireless connection. A patient’s glucose data can also be displayed on a patient’s or follower’s wearable device, such as the Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices, when used in conjunction with the patient’s or follower’s iPhone or Android mobile device.Data and Insulin Delivery Collaborations
4

We have entered into multiple collaboration agreements that leverage our technology platform to integrate our CGM products with insulin delivery systems. The general purpose of these development and commercial relationships is to integrate our technology into the insulin pump or pen product offerings of the respective partner, enabling the partner’s insulin delivery device to receive and display glucose readings from our transmitter and, in some cases, use the glucose readings for semi-automated insulin delivery. Currently, we have announced significant insulin delivery partnerships with Eli Lilly, Insulet, Novo Nordisk, Tandem Diabetes and The Ypsomed Group. In addition to these major partners, we are working with other companies that are pursuing varying strategies surrounding semi-automated insulin delivery and data analytics to improve outcomes and ease-of-use in diabetes management.
We have also entered into collaborations with several organizations that are currently using, or are developing, programs for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes that utilize our current CGM systems. These collaborations align with the strategy to seek broader access to our CGM systems for people with Type 2 diabetes, including those who are not treated with intensive insulin therapy.
Verily Collaboration
Our Restated Collaboration Agreement with Verily Life Science LLC (an Alphabet Company) and Verily Ireland Limited (collectively, Verily) provides us with an exclusive license to use intellectual property of Verily resulting from the collaboration, and certain Verily patents, in the development, manufacture and commercialization of blood-based or interstitial glucose monitoring products more generally (subject to certain exclusions, which are outside the CGM field as it is commonly understood). It also provides us with non-exclusive license rights under Verily’s other intellectual property rights to develop, manufacture, and commercialize those kinds of glucose monitoring products and certain CGM product companion software functionalities.
In consideration of Verily’s performance of its obligations under the joint development plan of the Restated Collaboration Agreement, the licenses granted to us and the amendment of the original agreement, we have made upfront and incentive payments, and will make potential additional milestone payments of up to $275.0 million that may become due and payable by us upon the achievement of future product regulatory approval and revenue milestones. At our election, we may make these milestone payments in shares of our common stock or cash. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 and Exhibit 10.31 of this Annual Report for a further description of the Restated Collaboration Agreement.
Market Opportunity 
Diabetes
Diabetes is a chronic, life-threatening disease for which there is no known cure and which has other significant adverse consequences for human health throughout the world. The disease is caused by the body’s inability to produce or effectively utilize the hormone insulin. This inability prevents the body from adequately regulating blood glucose levels. Glucose, the primary source of energy for cells, must be maintained at certain concentrations in the blood in order to permit optimal cell function and health. Normally, the pancreas provides control of blood glucose levels by secreting the hormone insulin to decrease blood glucose levels when concentrations are too high. In people with diabetes, the body does not produce sufficient levels of insulin, or fails to utilize insulin effectively, causing blood glucose levels to rise above normal. This condition is called hyperglycemia and often results in acute complications as well as chronic long-term complications such as heart disease, limb amputations, loss of kidney function and blindness. When blood glucose levels are high, people with diabetes often administer insulin in an effort to decrease blood glucose levels. Unfortunately, insulin administration can drive blood glucose levels below the normal range, resulting in hypoglycemia. In cases of severe hypoglycemia, people with diabetes risk acute complications, such as loss of consciousness or death. Due to the drastic nature of acute complications associated with hypoglycemia, many people with diabetes are reluctant to reduce blood glucose levels. Consequently, these individuals often remain in a hyperglycemic state, increasing their odds of developing long-term chronic complications. Diabetes is typically classified into two major groups: Type 1 and Type 2.
The International Diabetes Federation, or IDF, estimates that in 2019, 463 million adults (aged 20-79) around the world had diabetes. IDF estimates that by 2045, the worldwide incidence of people suffering from diabetes will reach 700 million. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, in its National Diabetes Statistics Report, 2020, or the 2020 CDC Report, crude estimates for the prevalence of diabetes in the United States as of 2018 include 34 million people with diabetes, of which 26.9 million people have diagnosed diabetes. The 2020 CDC Report also lists diabetes as the seventh leading cause of death by disease in the United States, excluding comorbidities associated with the disease. According to the Congressional Diabetes Caucus website, diabetes is the leading cause of kidney failure, adult-onset blindness, lower-limb amputations, and a significant cause of heart disease, stroke, high blood pressure and nerve damage. According to the IDF, there were an estimated 4.2 million deaths attributable to diabetes globally in 2019 between the ages of 20 and 79 years. The American Diabetes Association, or ADA, Fast Facts, revised in February 2020, states that diabetes is the primary cause of death for more than 83,000 Americans each year, and contributes to the death of more than 270,000 Americans annually.
5

According to the ADA, one in every four healthcare dollars was spent on treating people with diabetes in 2017, and the direct medical costs and indirect expenditures attributable to diabetes in the United States were an estimated $327 billion, an inflation-adjusted increase of approximately 26% since 2012. Of the $327 billion in overall expenses, the ADA estimated that approximately $237 billion were direct costs associated with diabetes care, chronic complications and excess general medical costs, and $90 billion were indirect costs. The ADA also found that in 2017, average medical expenditures among people with diagnosed diabetes were 2.3 times higher than for people without diabetes. According to the IDF, 2019 expenditures attributable to diabetes were estimated to be $760 billion globally. The IDF estimates that expenditures attributable to diabetes will grow to $845 billion globally by 2045.
Type 1 Diabetes
According to the 2020 CDC Report, as of 2018 there were an estimated 1.6 million adults and youth with diagnosed Type 1 diabetes in the United States. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder that usually develops during childhood and is characterized by an absence of insulin, resulting from destruction of the insulin producing cells of the pancreas. Individuals with Type 1 diabetes must rely on frequent insulin injections in order to regulate and maintain blood glucose levels.
According to JDRF, greater than 60,000 people are diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes each year in the United States and 5 million people in the U.S. are expected to have Type 1 diabetes by 2050. In addition, according to the ADA in 2019, nearly 18,000 youth are newly diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes every year in the United States.
Type 2 Diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is a metabolic disorder which results when the body is unable to produce sufficient amounts of insulin or becomes insulin resistant. Depending on the severity of Type 2 diabetes, individuals may require diet and nutrition management, exercise, oral medications or insulin injections to regulate blood glucose levels. We estimate that approximately 6.0 million Type 2 patients must use insulin to manage their diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes is occurring with increasing frequency in young people, with the increase in prevalence related to an increase in obesity amongst children. According to the CDC, as of 2016, approximately 18.5% of children and adolescents aged 2-19 years, or 13.7 million children, in the United States were obese. Childhood obesity has more than doubled in children and quadrupled in adolescents in the past 30 years.
Importance of Glucose Monitoring
Blood glucose levels can be affected by many factors, including the carbohydrate and fat content of meals, exercise, stress, illness or impending illness, hormonal releases, variability in insulin absorption and changes in the effects of insulin in the body. Given the many factors that affect blood glucose levels, maintaining glucose within a normal range is difficult, resulting in frequent and unpredictable excursions above or below normal blood glucose levels. People with diabetes administer insulin or ingest carbohydrates throughout the day in order to maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges. People with diabetes frequently overcorrect and fluctuate between hyperglycemic and hypoglycemic states, often multiple times during the same day. As a result, many people with diabetes are routinely outside the normal blood glucose range. Failure to maintain blood glucose levels within the normal range leads to numerous and significant health risks. These risks include eye disease, nerve disease, kidney disease, cardiovascular disease and potentially hypoglycemic events.
Limitations of Existing Glucose Monitoring Products
Single-point finger stick devices are the most prevalent devices for glucose monitoring. These devices require taking a blood sample with a finger stick, placing a drop of blood on a test strip and inserting the strip into a glucose meter that yields a single point in time blood glucose measurement. We believe that these devices suffer from several limitations, including:
•Limited Information. Even if people with diabetes test several times each day, each measurement represents a single blood glucose value at a single point in time. Given the many factors that can affect blood glucose levels, excursions above and below the normal range often occur between these discrete measurement points in time. Without the ability to determine whether their blood glucose level is rising, falling or holding constant, and the rate at which their blood glucose level is changing, the individual’s ability to effectively manage and maintain blood glucose levels within normal ranges is severely limited. Further, people with diabetes cannot test themselves during sleep, when the risk of hypoglycemia is significantly increased.
The illustrative graph below shows the limited information provided by four single-point measurements during a single day using a traditional single-point finger stick device, compared to the data provided by our continuous sensor. The continuous data indicates that, even with four finger sticks in one day, the patient’s blood glucose levels were above the target range of 80-140 milligrams per deciliter (“mg/dl”) for a period of 13.5 hours.
6

Single Day Continuous Data
dxcm-20201231_g2.jpg
•Inconvenience. The process of measuring blood glucose levels with single-point finger stick devices can cause significant disruption in the daily activities of people with diabetes and their families. People with diabetes using single-point finger stick devices must stop whatever they are doing several times per day, self-inflict a painful prick and draw blood to measure blood glucose levels. To do so, people with diabetes must always carry a fully supplied kit that may include a spring-loaded needle, or lancet, disposable test strips, cleansing wipes and the meter, and then safely dispose of the used supplies. This process is inconvenient and may cause uneasiness in social situations.
•Difficulty of Use. To obtain a sample with single-point finger stick devices, people with diabetes generally prick one of their fingertips or, occasionally, a forearm with a lancet. They then squeeze the area to produce the blood sample and another prick may be required if a sufficient volume of blood is not obtained the first time. The blood sample is then placed on a disposable test strip that is inserted into a blood glucose meter. This task can be difficult for individuals with decreased tactile sensation and visual acuity, which are common complications of diabetes.
•Pain. Although the fingertips are rich in blood flow and provide a good site to obtain a blood sample, they are also densely populated with highly sensitive nerve endings. This makes the lancing and subsequent manipulation of the finger to draw blood painful. The pain and discomfort are compounded by the fact that fingers offer limited surface area, so tests are often performed on areas that are sore from prior tests. People with diabetes may also suffer pain when the finger prick site is disturbed during regular activities.
The Dexcom Solution
We believe continuous glucose monitoring has the potential to enable more people with diabetes to achieve and sustain tight glycemic control with minimal disruption to their daily lives.
The landmark 1993 Diabetes Control and Complications Trial, or DCCT, demonstrated that improving blood glucose control lowers the risk of developing diabetes-related complications by up to 50%. The study also demonstrated that people with Type 1 diabetes achieved sustained benefits with intensive management. However, according to an article published in The New England Journal of Medicine in November 2014, in two national registries, only 13% to 15% of people with diabetes met treatment guidelines for good glycemic control, and more than 20% had very poor glycemic control.
Various clinical studies and real-world evidence also demonstrate the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring in the management of Type 1 diabetes and insulin-requiring Type-2 diabetes, when compared to regimens relying on self-monitoring of blood glucose. Results of several early clinical trials established that CGM usage was associated with improved glycemic outcomes.
Real-time alerts and multi-device integration further differentiate CGM-based and self-monitoring of blood glucose, or SMBG, based diabetes regimens. Alerts triggered by existing or impending abnormal glucose values are associated with less exposure to hypo- and hyperglycemia in large real-world data sets, and multi-device integration allows some CGM systems to communicate with automated insulin delivery systems. One such automated insulin delivery system that uses the G6 was studied in a large clinical trial that associated its use with numerous quality-of-life and glycemic benefits.
Our current target market consists primarily of people with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes who utilize insulin pump therapy or who utilize multiple daily insulin injections. We also believe that our CGM systems are beginning to have a positive impact
7

on the broader Type 2 population that does not utilize mealtime insulin, a group that we estimate to be greater than 30 million people in the United States alone. We are extending our commercial efforts for this population through several channels, including through strategic partnerships. In the future, we expect to expand our product offering to address people with pre-diabetes, people who are obese, people who are pregnant, and people in the hospital setting. Although the majority of our revenue has been generated in the United States, we have expanded our operations to include certain countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East, as well as Australia, Canada, and New Zealand.
Our current CGM systems offer the following advantages to people with diabetes:
•Improved Outcomes. Randomized clinical trials and peer reviewed published data have demonstrated that patients with diabetes who used continuous glucose monitoring devices to help manage their disease experienced significant improvements in glucose control, including when compared to patients relying solely on single-point finger stick measurements (i.e., less time in hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia) and reductions in A1c levels when compared to baseline.
•Access to Real-Time Values, Trend Information and Alerts. At their fingertips, people with diabetes can view their current glucose value, along with a graphical display of the historical trend information on our receiver or alternate display device. Without continuous monitoring, the individual is often unaware if his or her glucose is rising, declining or remaining constant. Access to continuous real-time glucose measurements provides people with diabetes information that may aid in attaining better glucose control. Additionally, our current CGM systems alert people with diabetes when their glucose levels approach inappropriately high or low levels so that they may intervene.
•Intuitive User Interface. We have developed a user interface that we believe is intuitive and easy to use. Our current CGM system receivers are compact with an easy-to-read color display, simple navigation tools, audible alerts and graphical display of trend information. Similar benefits are available via the interfaces we have made available on compatible mobile devices. These devices can serve as substitutes for our receivers or alternate display units in certain geographies.
•Convenience and Comfort. Our current CGM systems provide people with diabetes with the benefits of continuous monitoring, without having to perform finger stick tests for every measurement. Additionally, the disposable sensor that is inserted under the skin is a very thin wire, minimizing potential discomfort associated with inserting or wearing the disposable sensor. The external portion of the sensor, attached to the transmitter, is small, has a low profile and is designed to be easily worn under clothing. The wireless receiver is the size of a small smart phone and can be carried discreetly in a pocket or purse. We believe that convenience is an important factor in achieving widespread adoption of a CGM system.
•Connectivity to Wearables and Others. Patients can monitor their glucose levels and trends on compatible wearable devices, such as Apple Watch and Wear OS by Google devices, when used with a compatible mobile device. Also, our Share remote monitoring systems enable users of our current CGM systems to have their sensor glucose information remotely monitored by their family, friends or designated recipient, or follower, by wirelessly transmitting data from the user’s smart phone to the cloud and then to the follower’s mobile device. Several followers can remotely monitor a patient’s glucose information and receive secondary alert notifications from almost anywhere with an Internet connection via each follower’s mobile device.
Our Strategy
Our objective is to remain a leading provider of CGM systems and related products to enable people with diabetes to more effectively and conveniently manage their condition. We are also developing and commercializing products that integrate our CGM technologies into the insulin delivery systems or data platforms of our respective partners. In addition, we continue to pursue development partnerships with other insulin delivery companies, including automated insulin delivery systems, as well as other players in the disease management sector. To achieve these objectives, we are focusing on the following business strategies:
•Establishing and maintaining our technology platform as the leading approach to CGM and leveraging our development expertise to rapidly bring products to market, including for expanded indications.
•Driving the adoption of our ambulatory products through a direct sales and marketing effort, as well as key distribution arrangements.
•Driving additional adoption through technology integration partnerships such as our current partnerships with Eli Lilly, Insulet, Novo Nordisk, Tandem Diabetes, The Ypsomed Group and others.
•Seeking broad coverage policies and reimbursement for our products from private third-party payors and national health systems.
8

•Driving increased utilization and adoption of our products through a cloud-based data repository platform that enables people with diabetes to aggregate and analyze data from numerous diabetes devices and share the data with their healthcare providers and other individuals involved in their diabetes management and care.
•Expanding the use of our products to other patient care settings and patient demographics, including use for people with Type 2 diabetes who are not on intensive insulin therapy, population health, patient monitoring including in the hospital setting, and people who are pregnant.
•Providing a high level of customer support, service and education.
•Pursuing the highest safety and quality levels for our products.
Our Technology Platform 
We believe we have a broad technology platform that will support the development of multiple products for continuous glucose monitoring.
Sensor Technology
The key enabling technologies for our sensors include biomaterials, membrane systems, electrochemistry and low power microelectronics. Our membrane technology consists of multiple polymer layers configured to selectively allow the appropriate mix of glucose and oxygen to travel through the membrane and react with a glucose specific enzyme to create an extremely low electrical signal, measured in pico-amperes. This electrical signal is then translated into glucose values. We believe that the capability to measure very low levels of an electrical signal and to accurately translate those measurements into glucose values is also a unique and distinguishing feature of our technology. We have also developed technology to allow sensitive electronics to be packaged in a small, fully contained, lightweight sealed unit that minimizes inconvenience and discomfort for the user.
Receiver and Transmitter Technology
Our current CGM systems wirelessly transmit information from the transmitter, which sits in a pod atop the sensor, to our receiver or to a compatible mobile device. We have developed technology for reliable transmission and reception and have consistently demonstrated a high rate of successful transmissions from transmitter to receiver or compatible mobile device in our clinical trials. Our receiver or the mobile device, via our apps, then displays both real-time and trended glucose values, and provides alerts and alarms. We have used our extensive database of continuous glucose data to create and refine software, algorithms and other technology for the display of data to customers.
Products in Development
We have gained our technology expertise by learning to design implants that can withstand the rigors of functioning within the human body for extended periods of time, as well as other issues such as device sealing, miniaturization, durability and sensor geometry.
We are leveraging this technology platform to enhance the capabilities of our current products (including obtaining expanded indications of use) and to develop additional CGM products. We plan to develop future generations of technologies focused on improved performance and convenience and that will enable intelligent insulin administration. Over the longer term, we plan to continue to develop and improve networked platforms with open architecture, connectivity and transmitters capable of communicating with other devices. We intend to expand our efforts to accumulate CGM patient data and metrics and apply predictive modeling and machine learning to generate interactive CGM insights that can inform patient behavior.
We continue to pursue and support development partnerships with insulin pump companies and companies or institutions developing insulin delivery systems, including automated insulin delivery systems.
We are also exploring how to extend our offerings to other populations, including for people with Type 2 diabetes that are non-insulin using, people with pre-diabetes, people who are obese, people who are pregnant, and people in the hospital setting. Eventually, we may apply our technological expertise to products beyond glucose monitoring.
Disposable Sensor and Reusable Transmitter
Our sensor includes a tiny wire-like electrode coated with our sensing membrane system. This disposable sensor comes packaged with an integrated insertion device and is contained in a small plastic housing platform, or pod. The base of the pod has adhesive that attaches it to the skin. The sensor is intended to be easily and reliably inserted by the user by exposing the adhesive, placing the pod against the surface of the skin of the abdomen or upper buttocks for people ages 2-17, and pushing down on the insertion device. The insertion device first extends a narrow gauge needle containing the sensor into the subcutaneous tissue and then retracts the needle, leaving behind the sensor in the tissue and the pod adhered to the skin. The user then disposes of the insertion device and snaps the transmitter to the pod.
After a stabilization period with the G6, the user will begin receiving CGM data on his or her mobile device or dedicated receiver through the ten-day usage period. After a stabilization period with the G5 Mobile, the user is required to calibrate the
9

sensor with two measurements from a single-point finger stick device and the disposable sensor begins wirelessly transmitting the continuous glucose data at specific intervals to the handheld receiver or compatible mobile device. Users are prompted by the receiver or mobile app, if using the G5 Mobile, to calibrate the system twice per day with finger stick measurements throughout the use period to ensure reliable operation. Calibration may be accomplished by using any FDA cleared blood glucose meter. Our G6 system has labeling from the FDA and CE Mark permitting their use as a replacement for finger sticks for making therapeutic adjustments, although the G5 Mobile still requires two daily finger stick calibrations.
The disposable sensor contained in the G6 system is intended to function for up to ten days, after which the sensor should be replaced. To replace a sensor, the user simply removes the pod and attached sensor from the skin and discards them while retaining the reusable transmitter. A new sensor and pod can then be inserted and used with the same receiver and transmitter for a subsequent use period.
Handheld Receiver
Our small handheld receiver is carried by the user and wirelessly receives continuous glucose values from the transmitter. Proprietary algorithms and software, developed from our extensive database of continuous glucose data from clinical trials, are programmed into the G6 transmitter to process the glucose data from the sensor, which then sends the processed glucose data to the receiver and displays it on a user-friendly graphical user interface. With a push of a button, the user can access their current glucose value and one-, three-, six-, twelve- and twenty-four-hour trended data. Additionally, when glucose values are inappropriately high or low, the receiver provides an audible alert or vibrates. The receiver is a self-contained, durable unit with a rechargeable battery.
Compatible Mobile Devices
With our G6 system, the functionalities of our proprietary receiver can be obtained through the use of a compatible mobile device, such as an iOS or Android device, and our mobile applications, depending on the patient’s geographic location. A receiver may be required as the primary display device or a backup to the mobile device in some jurisdictions, including the United States.
Commercial Operations 
We have built a direct sales organization in the United States, Canada and certain countries in Europe to call on health care professionals, such as endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators, who can educate and influence patient adoption of continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that focusing efforts on these participants is important given the instrumental role they each play in the decision-making process for diabetes therapy, and to ensure that health care professionals and patients are knowledgeable about our products and their functionality. We focus on delivering this important information to participants to drive adoption of our current CGM systems. We directly market our products in the United States, Austria, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom primarily to endocrinologists, physicians and diabetes educators.
To complement our direct sales efforts, we have entered into distribution arrangements in the United States, Australia and New Zealand, and certain countries in Africa, Asia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East that allow distributors to sell our products. We expect to continue investing in our field sales force and believe our direct, highly specialized and focused sales organization and our domestic and international distribution agreements are sufficient for us to support our sales efforts for at least the next twelve months.
Direct to consumer marketing is one of our key initiatives to increase awareness of our CGM systems and drive new patient leads to our website. We target people with Type 1 and insulin intensive Type 2 diabetes. We advertise on television, in print, digital and video media, CRM, offer sponsorships, host or participate in diabetes related events, conduct public relations and maintain a brand ambassador program. Our campaigns target people with diabetes.
We use a variety of marketing tools to drive adoption, ensure continued usage and establish brand loyalty for our continuous glucose monitoring systems by:
•creating awareness of the benefits of continuous glucose monitoring and the advantages of our technology with endocrinologists, physicians, diabetes educators and people with diabetes;
•providing strong and simple educational and training programs to healthcare providers and people with diabetes to ensure easy, safe and effective use of our systems; and
•maintaining a readily accessible telephone and web-based technical and customer support infrastructure, which includes clinicians, diabetes educators and reimbursement specialists, to help referring physicians, diabetes educators and people with diabetes as necessary.
10

We typically experience seasonality, with lower sales in the first quarter of each year compared to the immediately preceding fourth quarter. This seasonal sales pattern relates to U.S. annual insurance deductible resets and unfunded flexible spending accounts.
Competition 
The market for blood glucose monitoring devices is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. In selling our current CGM systems, we compete directly with the Diabetes Care division of Abbott Laboratories; Medtronic plc’s Diabetes Group; Roche Diabetes Care, a division of Roche Diagnostics; privately-held LifeScan, Inc.; and Ascensia Diabetes Care, each of which manufactures and markets products for the single-point finger stick device market. Collectively, these companies currently account for the majority of the worldwide sales of self-monitored glucose testing systems.
Several companies are developing or commercializing products for continuous or periodic monitoring of glucose levels in the interstitial fluid under the skin that compete directly with our products. We have competed with Abbott and their Libre family of CGM products for many years. Medtronic markets and sells a standalone glucose monitoring product called Guardian Connect, both internationally and in the United States.
Medtronic and other third parties have developed or are developing, insulin pumps integrated with continuous glucose monitoring systems that provide, among other things, the ability to suspend insulin administration while the user’s glucose levels are low and to automate basal or bolus insulin dosing.
We also have begun to become aware of companies outside the traditional medical device sector that are attempting to develop competitive products and services, including for the general health and wellness, or population health space. Some of the companies developing or marketing competing devices are large and well-known publicly traded companies.
We believe that the principal competitive factors in our market include:
•safe, reliable and high-quality performance of products;
•cost of products and eligibility for reimbursement;
•comfort and ease of use of products;
•effective sales, marketing and distribution networks;
•brand awareness and strong acceptance by healthcare professionals and people with diabetes;
•customer service and support and comprehensive education for people with diabetes and diabetes care providers;
•speed of product innovation and time to market;
•regulatory expertise; and
•technological leadership and superiority.
For additional information on competition, please see our Risk Factor entitled “We operate in a highly competitive market and face competition from large, well-established companies with significant resources, and, as a result, we may not be able to compete effectively.”
Manufacturing 
We currently manufacture our products at our headquarters in San Diego, California and at our manufacturing facility in Mesa, Arizona. As of December 31, 2020, our headquarters facilities had approximately 31,000 square feet of laboratory space and approximately 28,000 square feet of controlled environment rooms. Our Mesa, Arizona facility has approximately 14,000 square feet of laboratory space and approximately 33,000 square feet of controlled environment rooms. In 2020, we commenced construction of a new facility in Malaysia that we anticipate will add substantial manufacturing capacity. There are technical challenges to increasing manufacturing capacity, including FDA qualification of new manufacturing facilities, equipment design and automation, material procurement, problems with production yields, and quality control and assurance. We have focused significant effort on continual improvement programs in our manufacturing operations intended to improve quality, yields and throughput. We have made progress in manufacturing to enable us to supply adequate amounts of product to support our commercialization efforts, however we cannot guarantee that supply will not be constrained going forward. Additionally, the production of our continuous glucose monitoring systems must occur in a highly controlled and clean environment to minimize particles and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. Developing and maintaining commercial-scale manufacturing facilities has and will continue to require the investment of substantial additional funds and the hiring and
11

retaining of additional management, quality assurance, quality control and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience.
We manufacture our current CGM systems with certain components supplied by outside vendors and other components that we manufacture internally. Key components that we manufacture internally include our wire-based sensors. The remaining components and assemblies are purchased from outside vendors. We then assemble, test, package and ship the finished systems, which may include a reusable transmitter, a receiver and disposable sensors.
We purchase certain components and materials used in manufacturing from single sources due to quality considerations, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory or other requirements. As of December 31, 2020, those single sources include suppliers of application-specific integrated circuits used in our transmitters, seals used for the applicator and certain polymers used to synthesize polymeric membranes for our sensors.
Third-Party Reimbursement 
As a medical device company, reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs or systems, and private third-party healthcare payors is an important element of our success. In January 2017, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid, or CMS, established a classification of “Therapeutic Continuous Glucose Monitors” as durable medical equipment under Medicare Part B, subject to payment by Medicare under certain coverage conditions to be determined by CMS, by local Medicare Administrative Contractors or on a patient claim by claim basis. In September 2016, Germany’s Federal Joint Committee agreed to provide reimbursement for continuous glucose monitoring systems under certain conditions which we believe we meet. We also have coverage under certain international markets and Medicaid coverage in 40 states.
As of December 31, 2020, the seven largest private third-party payors, in terms of the number of covered lives, have issued coverage policies for the category of continuous glucose monitoring devices. In addition, we have negotiated contracted rates with all seven of those third-party payors for the purchase of our current CGM systems by their members. We have personnel with reimbursement expertise to assist customers in obtaining reimbursement from private third-party payors. We also maintain a field-based reimbursement team charged with calling on third-party private payors to obtain coverage decisions and contracts. We have continued our efforts to create and liberalize coverage policies with third-party payors, including obtaining reimbursement for our products under pharmacy benefits and for more people with diabetes.
For additional information on third-party reimbursement, please see our see Risk Factors entitled “Managed care trends and consolidation in the health care industry could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations.” and “Health care policy changes, including U.S. health care reform legislation, may have a material adverse effect on our business.”
Intellectual Property 
Protection of our intellectual property is a strategic priority for our business. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and other measures to establish and protect our proprietary rights.
Our patent portfolio includes numerous issued and pending patent applications in the U.S. and other parts of the world, which in the aggregate, we believe to be of material importance in the operation of our business. U.S. patents, as well as most foreign patents, are generally effective for 20 years from the date the earliest application was filed. In some cases, the patent term may be extended. Our issued patents as of December 31, 2020 are set to expire over a range of years, from 2021 with respect to some of our earlier patents, to 2039, subject to any extensions. We also have various registered U.S. trademarks, registered European Community trademarks, and many other trademark registrations and pending trademark applications around other parts of the world. In addition, we have entered into exclusive and non-exclusive licenses in the ordinary course of business relating to a wide array of technologies or other intellectual property rights or assets.
Our patents and patent applications seek to protect aspects of our core membrane and sensor technologies and our product concepts for continuous glucose monitoring. We believe that our patent position provides us with sufficient rights to protect our current and proposed commercial products. However, our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and any patents that have been issued or might be issued may not protect our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, we operate in an industry characterized by extensive patent litigation, and our patents may not be upheld if challenged. Any patents issued to us may be challenged by third parties as being invalid or unenforceable, and patent litigation may result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could prevent the manufacture and sale of affected products or result in significant royalty payments in order to continue selling the products. Third parties may also independently develop similar or competing technology that avoids our patents. The steps we have taken may not prevent the misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. We also face risks associated with intellectual property infringement.
12

We also rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect our proprietary information and other intellectual property by generally requiring our employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors to execute non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements on commencement of their employment or engagement. Agreements with our employees also forbid them from bringing the proprietary rights of third parties to us. We also generally require confidentiality or material transfer agreements from third parties that receive our confidential data or materials. We cannot guarantee that employees and third parties will abide by the confidentiality or assignment terms of these agreements. Despite measures taken to protect our intellectual property, unauthorized parties might copy aspects of our products or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary.
Corporate Responsibility
 
We strive to advance the interests of all our stakeholders – including patients, caregivers, employees, investors, and our communities – by operating in an ethical and sustainable way. We do this by holding true to our core values: Listen, Think Big, Be Dependable, and Serve with Integrity. These values are at the heart of our sustainability activities.
•Listen – We believe in listening to our customers and our employees. We have launched a number of programs to advocate for individuals living with diabetes and we support our employees and their families through a number of benefit programs that are available. In addition, we promote diversity, practice fairness, and treat everyone with respect and dignity.
•Think Big - We seek to expand global healthcare access for people with diabetes and actively work to increase access to our products. We also have committed to operate our business in a manner that is protective of the environment and conserves natural resources and reduces waste.
•Be Dependable – We are committed to quality and believe that is best achieved through a safe and healthy workplace as well as a Quality Management System that is compliant with all applicable regulatory requirements and which is continuously being improved.
•Serve with Integrity – While oversight of our ethics and governance structure begins with our Board of Directors and Executive Leadership Team, we expect all employees to foster a culture of accountability in line with our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. We also maintain a compliance program to help enforce ethical conduct and adherence to applicable laws and regulations.
Our Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors oversees and reviews annually (a) our policies and programs concerning (i) corporate social responsibility and (ii) our participation and visibility as a global corporate citizen; (b) our sustainability performance; and (c) the assessment and management of environmental, sustainability and governance risks affecting our business.
Our Sustainability Report is available at https://investors.dexcom.com/corporate-governance, which is provided for reference only and is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Government Regulation 
The medical devices that we manufacture are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory bodies, including the FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies. These agencies require manufacturers of medical devices to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of medical devices. Devices are generally subject to varying levels of regulatory control, the most comprehensive of which requires that a clinical evaluation program be conducted before a device receives approval for commercial distribution. In addition, healthcare regulatory bodies in the United States and around the world impose a range of requirements related to the payment for medical devices and the procedures in which they are used, including laws intended to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse of healthcare dollars.
U.S. Laws and Regulations
At the U.S. federal level, our products are medical devices subject to extensive and ongoing regulation by the FDA. The U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, referred to as the FDCA, and the FDA’s implementing regulations govern product design and development, pre-clinical and clinical testing, pre-market clearance, authorization or approval, establishment registration and product listing, product manufacturing, product labeling, product storage, advertising and promotion, product sales, distribution, recalls and field actions, servicing and post-market clinical surveillance. A number of U.S. states also impose licensing and compliance regimes on companies that manufacture or distribute prescription devices in the state.
13

In addition, the delivery of our devices in the U.S market is subject to regulation by various U.S. Department of Health and Human Services divisions including CMS, the DHHS Office of the Inspector General, or OIG, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and comparable state agencies responsible for reimbursement and regulation of payment for health care items and services. U.S. laws and regulations are imposed primarily in connection with the Medicare, Medicaid, and TRICARE programs, as well as the government’s interest in regulating the quality and cost of health care.
FDA Regulation
Unless an exemption applies, each medical device we wish to commercially distribute in the United States will require either prior 510(k) clearance, prior de novo down-classification and a related grant of marketing authorization, or prior approval from the FDA through the premarket approval, or PMA process. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes. Devices requiring fewer controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I or II. Class I devices are subject to general controls such as labeling, pre-market notification, and adherence to the FDA’s manufacturing requirements, which are contained in the Quality System Regulation, or QSR. Class II devices are subject to special controls such as performance standards, post-market surveillance, FDA guidelines, or particularized labeling, as well as general controls. Some Class I and Class II devices are exempted by regulation from the pre-market notification (i.e., 510(k) clearance) requirement, and/or the requirement of compliance with substantially all of the QSR. As an example, the mobile applications that comprise the Share System were classified by the FDA as Class II exempt. With the mobile applications classified as Class II exempt, we must comply with certain general and special controls required by the FDA but we do not need prior FDA review to commercialize changes to the mobile applications. Some devices are placed in Class III, which requires approval of a PMA application, if they are deemed by the FDA to pose the greatest risk, such as life-sustaining, life-supporting or certain implantable devices, or to be “not substantially equivalent” either to a previously 510(k) cleared device or to a “preamendment” Class III device in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which PMA applications have not been required.
If a previously unclassified new medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) pre-market notification process because no predicate device to which it is substantially equivalent can be identified, the device is automatically classified into Class III. The Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997 established a new route to market for low to moderate risk medical devices that are automatically placed into Class III due to the absence of a predicate device, called the “Request for Evaluation of Automatic Class III Designation,” or the de novo classification procedure. This procedure allows a manufacturer whose novel device is automatically classified into Class III to request down-classification of its medical device into Class I or Class II on the basis that the device presents low or moderate risk, rather than requiring the submission and approval of a PMA. Prior to the enactment of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, in July 2012, a medical device could only be eligible for de novo classification if the manufacturer first submitted a 510(k) pre-market notification and received a determination from the FDA that the device was not substantially equivalent. FDASIA streamlined the de novo classification pathway by permitting (under Section 513(f)(2) of the FDCA) manufacturers to request de novo classification directly without first submitting a 510(k) pre-market notification to the FDA and receiving a not substantially equivalent determination. FDASIA sets a review time for FDA of 120 days following receipt of the de novo application, but FDA does not always meet this timeline and has publicly only committed to a review goal of 150 days for 50% of applications. If the manufacturer seeks reclassification into Class II, the manufacturer must include a draft proposal for special controls that are necessary to provide a reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the medical device. The FDA may reject the reclassification petition if it identifies a legally marketed predicate device that would be appropriate for a 510(k) or determines that the device is not low to moderate risk or that general controls would be inadequate to control the risks and special controls cannot be developed. If the FDA agrees with the down-classification, the de novo applicant will then receive authorization to market the device, and a classification regulation will be established for the device type. The device can then be used as a predicate device for future 510(k) submissions by the manufacturer or a competitor. In December 2018, the FDA issued proposed regulations to govern the de novo classification process, which if finalized would further impact this path to market.
As an alternative to the de novo process, a company could also file a reclassification petition, or the FDA could initiate such a process, seeking to change the automatic Class III designation of a novel postamendment device under Section 513(f)(3) of the FDCA. The FDA issued a final rule (to take effect March 17, 2019) to clarify the process where the FDA initiates such reclassification (issuance of a proposed reclassification order; optional panel consultation; and final reclassification order published in the Federal Register).
Our G4 PLATINUM and G5 Mobile systems (excluding associated Share System functionalities and mobile applications) were classified as devices requiring PMA approval. A PMA application must be supported by valid scientific evidence, which typically requires extensive data, including technical, pre-clinical, clinical, manufacturing and labeling data, to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and efficacy of the device. A PMA application also must include a complete description of the device and its components, a detailed description of the methods, facilities and controls used to manufacture the device, and proposed labeling. After a PMA application is submitted and found to be sufficiently complete, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the submitted information. During this review period, the FDA may request additional information or clarification of information already provided. Also during the review period, an advisory panel of experts from outside the FDA may be
14

convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA. In addition, the FDA generally will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility to evaluate compliance with QSR, which requires manufacturers to implement and follow design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures.
FDA review of a PMA application generally takes between one and three years, but may take significantly longer. The FDA can delay, limit or deny approval of a PMA application for many reasons, including:
•our systems may not be safe or effective to the FDA’s satisfaction;
•the data from our pre-clinical studies and clinical trials may be insufficient to support approval;
•the manufacturing process or facilities we use may not meet applicable requirements; and
•changes in FDA approval policies or adoption of new regulations may require additional data.
If an FDA evaluation of a PMA application or manufacturing facilities is favorable, the FDA will either issue an approval letter, or approvable letter, which usually contains a number of conditions which must be met in order to secure final approval of the PMA. When and if those conditions have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the FDA, the agency will issue a PMA approval letter authorizing commercial marketing of a device, subject to the conditions of approval and the limitations established in the approval letter. If the FDA’s evaluation of a PMA application or manufacturing facilities is not favorable, the FDA will deny approval of the PMA or issue a not approvable letter. The FDA may also determine that additional trials are necessary, in which case the PMA approval may be delayed for several months or years while the trials are conducted and data is submitted in an amendment to the PMA. The PMA process can be expensive, uncertain and lengthy and a number of devices for which FDA approval has been sought by other companies have never been approved by the FDA for marketing.
New PMA applications or PMA supplements may be required for modifications to the manufacturing process, labeling, device specifications, materials or design of a device that is approved through the PMA process. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of information as an initial PMA application, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the approved PMA application and may or may not require as extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel.
Clinical trials are almost always required to support a PMA application and are sometimes required for a 510(k) clearance. These trials generally require submission of an application for an investigational device exemption, or IDE to the FDA. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as animal and laboratory testing results, showing that it is safe to test the device in humans and that the testing protocol is scientifically sound. The IDE application must be approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device and eligible for abbreviated IDE requirements. Generally, clinical trials for a significant risk device may begin once the IDE application is approved by the FDA and the study protocol and informed consent are approved by appropriate institutional review boards at the clinical trial sites. The FDA’s approval of an IDE allows clinical testing to go forward, but does not bind the FDA to accept the results of the trial as sufficient to prove the product’s safety and efficacy, even if the trial meets its intended success criteria. All clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with the FDA’s IDE regulations, which govern investigational device labeling, prohibit promotion, and specify an array of Good Clinical Practice requirements, which include among other things, recordkeeping, reporting and monitoring responsibilities of study sponsors and study investigators. Clinical trials must further comply with the FDA’s regulations for institutional review board approval and for informed consent and other human subject protections. Required records and reports are subject to inspection by the FDA. The results of clinical testing may be unfavorable or, even if the intended safety and efficacy success criteria are achieved, may not be considered sufficient for the FDA to grant approval or clearance of a product. The commencement or completion of any of our clinical trials may be delayed or halted, or be inadequate to support approval of a PMA application, for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to, the following:
•the FDA or other regulatory authorities do not approve a clinical trial protocol or a clinical trial, or place a clinical trial on hold;
•patients do not enroll in clinical trials at the rate we expect;
•patients do not comply with trial protocols;
•patient follow-up is not at the rate we expect;
•patients experience adverse side effects;
•patients die during a clinical trial, even though their death may not be related to our products;
•institutional review boards and third-party clinical investigators may delay or reject our trial protocol;
•third-party clinical investigators decline to participate in a trial or do not perform a trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, good clinical practices or other FDA requirements;
•Dexcom or third-party organizations do not perform data collection, monitoring and analysis in a timely or accurate manner or consistent with the clinical trial protocol or investigational or statistical plans;
15

•third-party clinical investigators have significant financial interests related to Dexcom or the study that the FDA deems to make the study results unreliable, or Dexcom or investigators fail to disclose such interests;
•regulatory inspections of our clinical trials or manufacturing facilities, which may, among other things, require us to undertake corrective action or suspend or terminate our clinical trials;
•changes in governmental regulations or administrative actions applicable to our trial protocols;
•the interim or final results of the clinical trial are inconclusive or unfavorable as to safety or effectiveness; and
•the FDA concludes that the results from our trial and/or trial design are inadequate to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of the product.
We have a Class I data management service which we market to clinics. This service helps healthcare providers and patients see, understand and use blood glucose meter data to diagnose and manage diabetes. The service also allows researchers to control the transfer of data from certain diabetes devices to research tools and databases according to their own research workflows.
The infrastructure of the data management service is considered “medical device data systems,” or MDDS, and does not require 510(k) clearance. MDDS are hardware or software products that transfer, store, convert formats, and display medical device data. An MDDS does not modify the data or modify the display of the data, and it does not by itself control the functions or parameters of any other medical device. MDDS are not intended to be used for active patient monitoring. In 2016, the 21st Century Cures Act amended the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act’s definition of “device” to exclude certain software functions, thus products meeting the definition of MDDS are no longer considered devices and thus are not subject to FDA regulatory requirements.
Additional functions of, or intended uses for, our software platform may require us to obtain either 510(k) clearance or PMA approval from the FDA. To obtain 510(k) clearance, we must submit a pre-market notification demonstrating that the software system is substantially equivalent to a previously cleared 510(k) device or a pre-amendment device that was in commercial distribution before May 28, 1976 for which the FDA has not yet called for the submission of a PMA application. The FDA’s 510(k) clearance pathway generally takes from three to twelve months from the date the application is completed, but can take significantly longer. After a medical device receives 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a significant change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance.
In March 2018, we obtained marketing authorization for our G6 as an iCGM system for determining glucose (sugar) levels in children aged two and older and adults with diabetes, via the de novo process.
After a device is authorized for marketing and placed in commercial distribution, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include:
•establishment registration and device listing;
•QSR, which requires manufacturers to follow design, testing, control, storage, supplier/contractor selection, complaint handling, documentation and other quality assurance procedures;
•labeling regulations, which prohibit the promotion of products for unapproved or off-label uses or indications and impose other restrictions on labeling, advertising and promotion;
•medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if a device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur;
•voluntary and mandatory device recalls to address problems when a device is defective and/or could be a risk to health; and
•corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FDCA that may present a risk to health.
Also, the FDA may require us to conduct post-market surveillance studies or order us to establish and maintain a system for tracking our products through the chain of distribution to the patient level. The FDA and the Food and Drug Branch of the California Department of Health Services enforce regulatory requirements by conducting periodic, unannounced inspections and market surveillance. Inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors.
Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those applicable to the conduct of our clinical trials, can result in enforcement action by the FDA, which may lead to any of the following sanctions:
•warning letters or untitled letters that require corrective action;
•fines and civil penalties;
16

•unanticipated expenditures;
•delays in approving or refusal to approve our future continuous glucose monitoring systems or other products;
•FDA refusal to issue certificates to foreign governments needed to export our products for sale in other countries;
•suspension or withdrawal of FDA approval;
•product recall or seizure;
•interruption of production;
•operating restrictions;
•injunctions; and
•criminal prosecution.
We and our contract manufacturers, specification developers, and some suppliers of components or device accessories, are also required to manufacture our products in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements set forth in the QSR. The QSR requires a quality system for the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation and servicing of marketed devices, and includes extensive requirements with respect to quality management and organization, device design, buildings, equipment, purchase and handling of components or services, production and process controls, packaging and labeling controls, device evaluation, distribution, installation, complaint handling, servicing, and record keeping. The FDA evaluates compliance with the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections that may include the manufacturing facilities of our subcontractors. If the FDA believes we or any of our contract manufacturers or regulated suppliers are not in compliance with these requirements, it can shut down our manufacturing operations, require recall of our products, refuse to approve new marketing applications, institute legal proceedings to detain or seize products, enjoin future violations, or assess civil and criminal penalties against us or our officers or other employees. Any such action by the FDA would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to comply with all applicable FDA regulations.
U.S. Fraud and Abuse Laws and Other Compliance Requirements
The healthcare industry is subject to various U.S. federal and state laws pertaining to healthcare fraud and abuse. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, exclusion from participation in U.S. federal and state healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid.
Anti-kickback Laws. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration directly or indirectly to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing, recommending, or arranging of a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program such as Medicare and Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including such items as gifts, discounts, the furnishing of supplies or equipment, credit arrangements, waiver of payments, and providing anything at less than its fair market value. Given the breadth of this prohibition, Congress has issued a number of exceptions and has granted authority to the OIG to issue safe harbor regulations, each of which set forth certain provisions which, if satisfied in their entirety, will assure parties to the arrangement that they will not be prosecuted under the federal Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more exceptions or safe harbors is not per se illegal; rather, each arrangement is subject to a facts and circumstances analysis to determine whether the requisite improper intent exists. Therefore, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable exception or safe harbor element may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities or invite litigation by private citizens under federal whistleblower laws.
Federal Civil False Claims Act. The federal Civil False Claims Act prohibits knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented a false claim or the knowing use of false statements or records to obtain payment from the federal government. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it must pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties of between $11,181 and $22,363 (adjusted for inflation) for each separate false claim. Suits filed under the False Claims Act can be brought by any individual on behalf of the government and such individuals (known as “relators” or, more commonly, as “whistleblowers”) may share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These whistleblower-initiated False Claims Act cases are commonly referred to as “qui tam” actions. False Claims Act cases may also be initiated by the U.S. Department of Justice or any of its local U.S. Attorneys’ Offices. In addition, certain states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act. Qui tam actions have increased significantly in recent years, causing greater numbers of healthcare companies to have to defend a false claim action, even before the validity of the claim is established and even if the government decides not to intervene in the lawsuit. Healthcare companies may decide to agree to large settlements with the government and/or whistleblowers to avoid the cost and negative publicity associated with litigation. Federal enforcement agencies also have showed increased interest in pharmaceutical companies’ product promotion, health care professional engagements, and patient assistance programs, including reimbursement and co-pay support services, and a number of investigations into these programs have resulted in significant civil and criminal settlements. In addition, the Affordable Care Act amended federal law to provide that the
17

government may assert that a claim for items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act. Criminal prosecution is also possible for knowingly making or presenting a false or fictitious or fraudulent claim to the federal government.
Federal Physician Self-Referral Law. The Federal Physician Self-Referral Law, also referred to as the Stark Law, prohibits a physician (or an immediate family member of a physician) who has a financial relationship with an entity from referring patients to that entity for certain designated health services, including durable medical equipment such as the CGM receiver and supplies, payable by Medicare, unless an exception applies. The Stark Law also prohibits such an entity from presenting or causing to be presented a claim to the Medicare program for such designated health services provided pursuant to a prohibited referral, and provides that certain collections related to any such claims must be refunded in a timely manner. Exceptions to the Stark Law include, among other things, exceptions for certain financial relationships, including both ownership and compensation arrangements. The Stark Law is a strict liability statute, therefore, to the extent that the statute is implicated and an exception does not apply, the statute is violated. Violations of the Stark Law must be reported and returned to Medicare in order to avoid potential liability under the federal False Claims Act for avoiding a known obligation to return identified overpayments. In the fall of 2020, we transitioned our Medicare business to distributors and no longer bill Medicare directly for DME and related supplies. In doing so, we have limited our exposure under the Stark Law. In addition to the Stark Law, many states have implemented similar physician self-referral prohibitions that may extend to Medicaid, third party payors, and self-pay patients, and may be applicable to our relationships with physicians and other health care providers.
Civil Monetary Penalties Law. The Civil Monetary Penalties Law, or CMPL, authorizes the imposition of substantial civil money penalties against an entity that engages in certain prohibited activities including but not limited to violations of the Stark Law or Anti-Kickback Statute, knowing submission of a false or fraudulent claim, employment of an excluded individual, and the provision or offer of anything of value to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary that the transferring party knows or should know is likely to influence beneficiary selection of a particular provider for which payment may be made in whole or part by a federal health care program, commonly known as the Beneficiary Inducement CMP. Remuneration is defined under the CMPL as any transfer of items or services for free or for less than fair market value. There are certain exceptions to the definition of remuneration for offerings that meet the Financial Need, Preventative Care, or Promoting Access to Care exceptions. Sanctions for violations of the CMPL include civil monetary penalties and administrative penalties up to and including exclusion from participation in federal health care programs.
Violations of the Stark Law, the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Civil Monetary Penalties Law and/or the federal False Claims Act can also form the basis for exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs.
State Analogs of Federal Fraud and Abuse Laws. Many U.S. states have their own laws intended to protect against fraud and abuse in the health care industry and more broadly. In some cases these laws prohibit or regulate additional conduct beyond that covered under federal law. Penalties for violating these laws can range from fines to criminal sanctions.
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and implementing regulations, collectively HIPAA, created two new federal crimes: healthcare fraud and false statements relating to healthcare matters. The healthcare fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, including private payors. A violation of this statute is a felony and may result in fines, imprisonment or exclusion from government sponsored programs. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.
HIPAA and Other U.S. Privacy Laws and Regulations. HIPAA, as well as a number of other federal and state privacy-related laws, also extensively regulate the use and disclosure of individually identifiable health information, known as “protected health information,” and require covered entities, including health plans and most health care providers, to implement administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the security of such information. Certain provisions of the security and privacy regulations apply to business associates (entities that handle protected health information on behalf of covered entities), and business associates are subject to direct liability for violation of these provisions. In addition, a covered entity may be subject to criminal and civil penalties as a result of a business associate violating HIPAA, if the business associate is found to be an agent of the covered entity. Covered entities must report breaches of unsecured protected health information to affected individuals without unreasonable delay and notification must also be made to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Office for Civil Rights, or OCR and, in certain situations involving large breaches, to the media. Various U.S. state laws and regulations may also require us to notify affected individuals and state agencies in the event of a data breach involving individually identifiable information. The OCR enforces the regulations and performs compliance audits. In addition to enforcement by OCR, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunction or damages in response to violations that threaten the privacy of state residents. Dexcom is a covered entity under HIPAA and in
18

certain circumstances, may also be a business associate of another covered entity. The HIPAA privacy regulations and security regulations impose and will continue to impose significant costs on us in order to comply with these standards.
There are numerous other laws and legislative and regulatory initiatives at the federal and state levels addressing privacy and security concerns. We also remain subject to federal or state privacy-related laws that are more restrictive than the privacy regulations issued under HIPAA. These laws vary and could impose additional penalties. For example, the Federal Trade Commission uses its consumer protection authority to initiate enforcement actions in response to alleged privacy and data security violations. Further, certain states have proposed or enacted legislation that will create new data privacy and security obligations for certain entities, such a the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, which came into effect January 1, 2020 and was recently amended and expanded by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) passed on November 3, 2020. The CCPA and CPRA, among other things, create new data privacy obligations for covered companies and provides new privacy rights to California residents, including the right to opt out of certain disclosures of their information. The CCPA also created a private right of action with statutory damages for certain data breaches, thereby potentially increasing risks associated with a data breach. It remains unclear what, if any, additional modifications will be made to the CPRA by the California legislature or how it will be interpreted. Therefore the effects of the CCPA and CPRA are significant and will likely require us to modify our data processing practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply, particularly given our base of operations in California.
In addition to the laws discussed above, we may see more stringent state and federal privacy legislation passed in 2021 and beyond, as the increased cyber-attacks during the COVID-19 pandemic have once again put a spotlight on data privacy and security in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. We cannot predict where new legislation might arise, the scope of such legislation, or the potential impact to our business and operations.
FCPA and Other Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits U.S. corporations and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business abroad. The scope of the FCPA would include interactions with certain healthcare professionals in many countries, either directly or through our contracted distributors. Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other U.S. and foreign laws, rules and/or regulations.
Physician Payment Sunshine Act. Pursuant to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that was signed into law in March 2010, the federal government enacted the Physician Payment Sunshine Act. As a manufacturer of U.S. FDA‑regulated devices reimbursable by federal healthcare programs, we are subject to this law, which requires us to track and annually report certain payments and other transfers of value we make to U.S.-licensed physicians or U.S. teaching hospitals. We are also required to report certain ownership interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. In 2018, the law was extended to require tracking and reporting of transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, and other mid-level practitioners. Reporting requirements will go into effect in 2022 for payments and transfers of value made to these additional practitioner-types in 2021. CMS has the potential to impose penalties of up to $1.15 million per year for violations of the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, depending on the circumstances, and reported payments also have the potential to draw scrutiny to our relationships with physicians, which may have implications under the Anti-Kickback Statute and and other healthcare laws.
In addition, there has been a recent trend of increased federal and state regulation of payments and other transfers of value provided to healthcare professionals and entities. Similar to the federal law, certain states also have adopted marketing and/or transparency laws relevant to device manufacturers, some of which are broader in scope. Certain states also mandate that device manufacturers implement compliance programs. Other states impose restrictions on device manufacturer marketing practices and require tracking and reporting of gifts, compensation, and other remuneration to healthcare professionals and entities. The need to build and maintain a robust compliance program with different compliance and/or reporting requirements increases the possibility that a healthcare company may violate one or more of the requirements, resulting in fines and penalties.
International Regulation
International sales of medical devices are subject to foreign government regulations, which may vary substantially from country to country. The time required to obtain approval in a foreign country may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval, and the requirements may differ. There is a trend towards harmonization of quality system standards among the European Union, United States, Canada and various other industrialized countries.
The regulatory framework governing medical devices is largely harmonized within the European Union, which includes most of the major countries in Europe (please note that the UK is effectively no longer part of the European Union as of January 1, 2021). Other countries, such as Switzerland, have voluntarily adopted laws and regulations that mirror those of the European Union with respect to medical devices. The European Union has adopted numerous directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture, clinical trials, labeling and adverse event reporting for medical devices. To be placed on the European Union market, devices must undergo a conformity assessment and bear the CE mark, indicating that the device
19

conforms to the essential requirements of the applicable rules. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a “Notified Body.” This third-party assessment, which may consist of an audit of the manufacturer’s quality system and specific testing of the manufacturer’s product, is always required in order for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the European Union, except in case of Class I medical devices (those entailing the lowest level of risk). Outside of the European Union, regulatory approval needs to be sought on a country-by-country basis in order for us to market our products. The new European Union Medical Device Regulation (MDR) went into force in 2017, replacing the existing Directive and providing three years for transition and compliance, which has been extended by one additional year. The MDR will become fully applicable in the European Union on May 26, 2021, changing several aspects of the existing regulatory framework. Other countries have adopted medical device regulatory regimes, such as the Classification Rules for Medical Devices published by the Hong Kong Department of Health, the Health Sciences Authority of Singapore regulation of medical devices under the Health Products Act, and Health Canada’s risk classification system for invasive devices, among others. Each country may have its own processes and requirements for medical device licensing, approval, and regulation, therefore requiring us to seek regulatory approvals on a country-by-country basis.
Outside the United States a range of anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, as well and some industry-specific laws and codes of conduct, apply to the medical device industry and interactions with government officials and entities and healthcare professionals. Laws include the UK Bribery Act of 2010. Further, the EU member countries have emphasized a greater focus on healthcare fraud and abuse and have indicated greater attention to the industry by the European Anti-Fraud Office. MedTech Europe, the medical device industry association, also introduced the Code of Ethical Business Practices, which came into effect on January 1, 2017. Countries in Asia have also become more active in their enforcement of anti-bribery laws and with respect to procurement and supply chain fraud.
In the European Union, increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules that have and will continue to have substantial impact on the use of patient data across the healthcare industry became effective in May 2018. The EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, applies across the European Union and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances and significant fines for non-compliance. The GDPR fine framework can be up to 20 million euros, or up to 4 % of the company’s total global turnover of the preceding fiscal year, whichever is higher. The GDPR also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the European Union to comply with EU privacy and data protection rules, even if the company itself does not have a physical presence in the European Union. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines, penalties, or orders to stop noncompliant activities. Due to the strong consumer protection aspects of the GDPR, companies subject to its purview are allocating substantial legal costs to the development of necessary policies and procedures and overall compliance efforts. We expect continued costs associated with maintaining compliance with GDPR into the future.
Environmental Regulation
Our research and development and clinical processes involve the handling of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous and biological materials and we incur expenses relating to compliance with these laws and regulations. If violations of environmental, health and safety laws occur, we could be held liable for damages, penalties and costs of remedial actions. These expenses or this liability could have a significant negative impact on our financial condition. We may violate environmental, health and safety laws in the future as a result of human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations. We are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business and environmental groups. Changes to or restrictions on permitting requirements or processes, hazardous or biological material storage or handling might require an unplanned capital investment or relocation. Failure to comply with new or existing laws or regulations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Advisory Boards and Consultants 
We have relied upon the advice of experts in the development and commercialization of our products. Since 2005, we have used experts in various disciplines on a consulting basis as needed to solve problems or accelerate development pathways. We may continue to engage advisors from the academic, consultancy, governmental or other areas to assist us as necessary. Relationships between manufacturers and physicians, including in consultancy and advisory board roles, is subject to scrutiny under the Stark Law, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, and their state law equivalents. Due to this scrutiny, we incur legal and consulting fees to ensure our relationships with physicians meet regulatory requirements, including that compensation paid to such physicians is within fair market value.
20

Human Capital
 
As of December 31, 2020, we have approximately 5,500 full-time employees and approximately 900 contract and temporary employees around the globe.
Country		Female		Male		Grand Total	United States		1,800 			2,300 			4,100 		Non-United States (“OUS”)		700 			700 			1,400 		Grand Total		2,500 			3,000 			5,500 	 
None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement, except for our employees in our Mainz, Germany location that are represented by a Works Council. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and we consider our employee relations to be good.
Although the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted business and operations for companies around the globe, the resilience of our employees has enabled us to minimize disruption to our sales, research, clinical studies and operations. Our onsite employees, particularly in manufacturing and operations, have rapidly adjusted to numerous stringent safety protocols. Thousands of other employees have shifted to work-from-home status since March 2020.
We are optimistic about the potential to expand our global workforce and create a more inclusive environment for all of our employees.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
As a global company, we understand the importance of diversity in our workforce. This year, we made progress in our commitment to Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) by formally establishing a DEI Council responsible for coordinating efforts around the organization, and securing resources to drive necessary change. At the same time, we expanded our Employee Resource Group (ERG) network to better reflect the diversity of our workforce and drive grassroots change. We now have multiple ERGs, including Dexcom PRIDE, Dexcom African American Network, LatinX, and ABLE, which help build our company community and enable opportunities for development. Together, these groups helped allocate our initial donation of $250,000 to support organizations dedicated to diversity, equity and inclusion.
The work we have done to date represents the beginning of our DEI journey. We will continue to focus on building a pipeline of opportunities for both the hiring and advancement of qualified individuals, including for women, persons with disabilities, and minority groups that are underrepresented in science and engineering industries. We believe that diverse perspectives will help empower our employees, patients and industry.
Communications and Engagement
Our success depends on employees understanding our strategic vision as well as our day-to-day objectives. To that end, we employ a mix of communication and engagement channels, including global, regional and functional town halls, regular leadership forums, and quarterly updates on our progress against our strategic goals. We have also created a cross-functional team focused on improving the employee experience and driving engagement.
A central part of our communications and engagement efforts are connecting people to purpose. To this end, we regularly invite Dexcom users, called Warriors, to share their stories with our employees. Whether the Warrior is a professional athlete whose performance depends on Dexcom, or a parent who no longer has to stick their child’s fingers during the night, their experiences reinforce our commitment to expand our reach into new patient populations, geographies and markets.
Health, Safety and Wellness
We are deeply committed to the safety, health and wellness of our employees. The Dexcom Environmental, Health & Safety team develops global safety practices and procedures, trains employees, and monitors compliance. Through these efforts, along with leadership commitment and investment of resources in support of workplace safety initiatives, our total US injury rate has consistently tracked below industry averages.
We also provide comprehensive wellbeing programs that support our employees and their families. For example, Inspire, our newly launched global wellness platform, helps employees and their family members develop and achieve their physical, emotional, and financial wellbeing goals.
21

Compensation
We recognize that our employees are our most valuable asset. Our total rewards package includes market competitive pay, comprehensive and competitive global benefits and retirement offerings, paid time off and family leave, tuition reimbursement and on-site services. To foster a stronger sense of ownership and align the interests of employees with shareholders, we offer an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and restricted stock units are provided to eligible employees under our broad-based stock incentive programs.
In 2019, we began proactive reviews of both gender and minority pay equity for our global employees in the same or similar roles. The goal of these reviews is to identify and close any gaps in average pay, after accounting for legitimate business factors that may explain differences, such as performance, time in role, and tenure with the company. We have incorporated the findings into our compensation assessment cycles, and we recognize the need to regularly review pay equity to maintain our pay equity goals.
Growth and Development
We believe that investing in our talent’s growth and development will directly enhance our overall company performance. Our career development site, includes employee resources focusing on the advancement of six core competencies: collaboration, effective communication, talent development, driving results, demonstrating self-awareness, and strategic mindset. The internal site includes several training videos on a wide variety of topics, providing necessary resources for employees to grow in accord with their personal goals. The site also serves as a hub for our virtual and in-person sessions that align with the development of our six core competencies.
Recently, we enhanced our internal careers platform to more effectively match an employee’s experience with potential career paths at Dexcom. By providing an easy way for employees to explore new roles, we can increase internal mobility, develop great talent, and reduce turnover.