The Estée Lauder Companies Inc., founded in 1946 by Estée and Joseph Lauder, is one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of quality skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products. Our products are sold in approximately 150 countries and territories under a number of well-known brand names including: Estée Lauder, Clinique, Origins, M·A·C, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone London, Too Faced and Dr. Jart+. We are also the global licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products sold under various designer brand names. Each brand is distinctly positioned within the market for cosmetics and other beauty products.
We believe we are a leader in the beauty industry due to the global recognition of our brand names, our leadership in product innovation, our strong position in key geographic markets and the consistently high quality of our products and “High-Touch” services. We sell our prestige products through distribution channels that complement the luxury image and prestige status of our brands. Our products are sold on our own and authorized retailer websites, on third-party online malls, in stores in airports, in duty-free locations and in our own and authorized freestanding stores. In addition, our products are sold in brick-and-mortar retail stores, including department stores, specialty-multi retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas. We believe that our strategy of pursuing selective distribution strengthens our relationships with retailers and consumers, enables our brands to be among the best-selling product lines at the stores and online, and heightens the aspirational quality of our brands.
For a discussion of recent developments, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Results of Operations – Overview.
The discussion of our net sales and operating results is based on specific markets in commercially concentrated locations, which may include separate discussions on territories within a country. For segment and geographical area financial information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 22 – Segment Data and Related Information.
We have been controlled by the Lauder family since the founding of our Company. Members of the Lauder family, some of whom are directors, executive officers and/or employees, beneficially own, directly or indirectly, as of August 20, 2020, shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock having approximately 86% of the outstanding voting power of the Common Stock.

2
Table of Contents
Products
el-20200630_g1.jpg
Skin Care - Our broad range of skin care products addresses various skin care needs. These products include moisturizers, serums, cleansers, toners, body care, exfoliators, acne care and oil correctors, facial masks, and sun care products.
Makeup - Our full array of makeup products includes lipsticks, lip glosses, mascaras, foundations, eyeshadows, nail polishes and powders. Many of the products are offered in an extensive palette of shades and colors. We also sell related items such as compacts, brushes and other makeup tools.
Fragrance - We offer a variety of fragrance products. The fragrances are sold in various forms, including eau de parfum sprays and colognes, as well as lotions, powders, creams, candles and soaps that are based on a particular fragrance.
Hair Care - Our hair care products include shampoos, conditioners, styling products, treatment, finishing sprays and hair color products.
Other - We also sell ancillary products and services.

3
Table of Contents
Our Brands
Given the personal nature of our products and the wide array of consumer preferences and tastes, as well as competition for the attention of consumers, our strategy has been to market and promote our products through distinctive brands seeking to address broad preferences and tastes. Each brand has a single global image that is promoted with consistent logos, packaging and advertising designed to enhance its image and differentiate it from other brands in the market. Beauty brands are differentiated by numerous factors, including quality, performance, a particular lifestyle, where they are distributed (e.g., prestige or mass) and price point. Below is a chart showing most of the brands that we sell and how we view them based on lifestyle and price point:
el-20200630_g2.jpg
4
Table of Contents
el-20200630_g3.jpg
 	Estée Lauder brand products, which have been sold since 1946, have a reputation for innovation, sophistication and superior quality. Estée Lauder is one of the world’s most renowned beauty brands, producing iconic skin care, makeup and fragrances.							
el-20200630_g4.jpg
 	We pioneered the marketing of prestige men’s fragrance, grooming and skin care products with the introduction of Aramis products in 1964.							
el-20200630_g5.jpg
 	Introduced in 1968, Clinique skin care and makeup products are all allergy tested and 100% fragrance free and have been designed to address individual skin types and needs. Clinique also offers select fragrances. The skin care and makeup products are based on the research and related expertise of leading dermatologists.							
el-20200630_g6.jpg
 	Lab Series, introduced in 1987, is a series of high performance, specialized skin care solutions uniquely created to improve the look and feel of men’s skin.							
el-20200630_g7.jpg
 	Introduced in 1990, Origins is known for high-performance natural skin care that is “powered by nature and proven by science.” The brand also sells makeup, fragrance and hair care products and is distributed primarily through online, specialty-multi and free-standing Origins stores. Origins has a license agreement to develop and sell beauty products using the name of Dr. Andrew Weil.							
el-20200630_g8.jpg
 	M·A·C, the leading brand of professional cosmetics, was created in Toronto, Canada. We completed our acquisition of M·A·C in 1998. The brand’s popularity has grown through a tradition of word-of-mouth endorsement from professional makeup artists, models, photographers and journalists around the world.							
el-20200630_g9.jpg
 	Acquired in 1995, Bobbi Brown is a global prestige beauty brand known for its high quality and undertone-correct makeup and skin care products that celebrate individual beauty and confidence. Reflecting its artistry roots, the brand is focused on creating a teaching and learning community of women around the world.			 
5
Table of Contents
el-20200630_g10.jpg
 	Acquired in 1995, La Mer is a leading global luxury skin care brand that is available in limited distribution worldwide. The brand is known for its iconic Crème de la Mer moisturizer, serums and lotions, as well as other skin care and foundation products that are created around the original “Miracle Broth.”							
 el-20200630_g11.jpg
 
 	Acquired in 1997, Aveda sells high-performance, naturally-derived hair care products, as well as skin care, makeup and fragrance. The brand is known for its innovative plant-based products and its commitment to environmental sustainability and corporate responsibility. It is distributed primarily through top-tier hair salons and direct-to-consumer, via online and Aveda stores.							
el-20200630_g12.jpg
 	Acquired in 1999, Jo Malone London is a scented British lifestyle brand with understated elegance, offering enchanted story-telling and high-touch boutique services. The brand’s famous colognes are perfect alone or artfully layered with Fragrance Combining. Jo Malone London embodies the spirit of gifting generosity and inspires emotional elevation.							
el-20200630_g13.jpg
 	Acquired in 2006, Bumble and bumble is a New York-based hair care brand that creates high-quality hair care and styling products. The brand is distributed primarily through top-tier salons, including Bumble and bumble’s own flagship salons, specialty-multi retailers and online.							
el-20200630_g14.jpg
 	Acquired in 2003, Darphin is a Paris-based, prestige skin care brand known for its high-performance botanical skin care. The brand is distributed primarily through high-end independent pharmacies and online brand and retailer channels.							
el-20200630_g15.jpg
 	
In 2005, we entered into a license agreement to develop and distribute luxury fragrances and beauty products under the Tom Ford brand name, all shaped with Tom Ford’s vision to be the first true luxury brand of the 21st century encompassing fashion, fragrance and accessories. In the same vein as the fashion brand, Tom Ford Beauty exudes seductive modern-day glamour and includes luxury fragrance, color cosmetics, men’s grooming products and skin care products for discerning consumers globally.
el-20200630_g16.jpg
 	Acquired in 2010, Smashbox Cosmetics is a Los Angeles-based, photo studio-inspired makeup brand with high performance products created for our consumer’s everyday life in the spotlight.			 
6
Table of Contents
el-20200630_g17.jpg
 	Launched in 2012, AERIN is a luxury lifestyle beauty and fragrance brand inspired by the signature style of its founder, Aerin Lauder.							
el-20200630_g18.jpg
 	Acquired in 2014, Le Labo is a sensory and experiential lifestyle brand, deeply rooted in the craft of slow perfumery. Born in Grasse, France and raised in downtown NYC, it offers hand-crafted and personalized fragrances, as well as ‘alternative’ and genuine experiences celebrating craftsmanship.							
el-20200630_g19.jpg
 	Acquired in 2015, Les Editions de Parfums Frédéric Malle is a collection of exclusive, sophisticated, ultraluxury fragrances crafted by some of the world’s most talented perfumers and published by the brand.							
el-20200630_g20.jpg
 	Acquired in 2015, GLAMGLOW started as a behind-the-scenes Hollywood secret to instant glow. The brand is known for bold, sensorial products that deliver instant results, and its unconventional philosophy that high performance skin care should also be fun and sexy.							
el-20200630_g21.jpg
 	Acquired in 2016, By Kilian is a prestige fragrance brand that embodies timeless sophistication and modern luxury.							
el-20200630_g22.jpg
 	Acquired in 2016, BECCA is the makeup brand known for its complexion products and iconic glow. The brand is committed to inclusivity and has shades for the lightest to darkest skin tones. Its formulas harness innovative light technology to provide a range of glow from start to finish.							
el-20200630_g23.jpg
 	Acquired in 2016, Too Faced is a serious makeup brand that knows how to have fun. The brand is unabashedly pink, pretty and feminine with a playful wink that is beloved for its high-quality formulas, cheeky product names and distinctive packaging.							
el-20200630_g24.jpg
Acquired in 2019, Dr. Jart+ is a Seoul-based, global skin care brand known for its innovative formulations and unique combination of dermatological science and art. Its high-quality masks, moisturizers and serums are distributed primarily through travel retail, specialty-multi and online channels.
 	
el-20200630_g25.jpg
 	Under exclusive global license arrangements with Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Michael Kors and Ermenegildo Zegna, we manage a diversified designer fragrance portfolio.			 
7
Table of Contents
In addition to the brands described above, we manufacture and sell products under the Prescriptives, RODIN olio lusso and Do The Right Thing brands. We also develop and sell products under a license from Kiton. 
We also have minority investments in (i) a company based in Canada that manufactures, markets and sells skin care and other products under a number of brand names, including The Ordinary, primarily in North America, the United Kingdom and Europe, and (ii) a company based in India that manufactures, markets and sells Ayurvedic skin care and other products under the Forest Essentials brand name, primarily in India.
Our “heritage brands” are Estée Lauder, Clinique and Origins. Our “makeup artist brands” are M·A·C and Bobbi Brown. Our “luxury brands” are La Mer, Jo Malone London, Tom Ford, AERIN, RODIN olio lusso, Le Labo, Editions de Parfums Frédéric Malle and By Kilian. Our “designer fragrances” are sold under the Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Michael Kors, Kiton and Ermenegildo Zegna brand names, which we license from their respective owners.

Distribution
We sell our prestige products through distribution channels that complement the luxury image and prestige status of our brands. Our products are sold on our own and authorized retailer websites, on third-party online malls, in stores in airports, in duty-free locations and in our own and authorized freestanding stores. In addition, our products are sold in brick-and-mortar retail stores, including department stores, specialty-multi retailers, upscale perfumeries and pharmacies and prestige salons and spas. Our general practice is to accept returns of our products from customers if properly requested and approved.
In fiscal 2020, we continued to strategically open new points of distribution globally, and exited certain locations when appropriate.
As of June 30, 2020, we operated approximately 1,600 freestanding stores. Most are operated under a single brand name, such as M·A·C, Jo Malone London, Aveda, Origins or Le Labo. There are also more than 800 Company-branded freestanding stores around the world operated by authorized third parties, primarily in Europe, the Middle East & Africa.
Products from most of our brands are sold online through Company-owned and operated e-commerce and m-commerce sites, through various sites operated by authorized retailers and through third-party online malls. These sites and/or malls are in approximately 50 countries. While today a majority of these online sales are generated in mainland China, the United States and the United Kingdom, we have additional opportunity to expand online sales globally.
We maintain dedicated sales teams that manage our retail accounts. We have wholly owned operations in over 50 countries, and two controlling interests that operate in several countries, through which we market, sell and distribute our products. In certain countries, we sell our products through carefully selected distributors who we believe share our commitment to protecting the image and position of our brands. In addition, we sell certain products in select domestic and international U.S. military exchanges. For information regarding our net sales and long-lived assets by geographic region, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 22 – Segment Data and Related Information.
Customers
Our strategy is to build strong relationships globally with select retailers, and our senior management works with executives of our major retail accounts on a regular basis. We believe we are viewed as an important supplier to these customers. In addition, we connect with our consumers directly through freestanding stores, e-commerce sites and social media to build a robust omnichannel experience. 

8
Table of Contents
Marketing
Our strategy to market and promote our products begins with our well-diversified portfolio of more than 25 distinctive brands across four product categories. Our portfolio can be deployed in multiple distribution channels, key travel corridors and geographies where our global reputation and awareness of our brands benefit us. Our geographic and distribution channel diversity allows us to engage local consumers across an array of developed and emerging markets by emphasizing products and services with the greatest local relevance, inclusiveness and appeal. This strategy is built around “Bringing the Best to Everyone We Touch.” Our founder, Mrs. Estée Lauder, formulated this unique marketing philosophy to provide “High-Touch” service and high-quality products as the foundation for a solid and loyal consumer base. Our “High-Touch” approach is demonstrated through our integrated consumer engagement models that leverage our product specialists and technology to provide the consumer with a distinct and truly personalized experience that can include personal consultations with beauty advisors, in person or online, who demonstrate and educate the consumer on product usage and application. As our business has grown and channel mix has evolved, we have further expanded our marketing philosophy and “High-Touch” execution to build both online and offline personalized consumer experiences through both digital and physical demonstration, targeted digital media and tailored trial-to-loyalty pathways. We plan to continue to leverage our core strengths, including the quality of our products, our “High-Touch” consumer engagement and a diversified portfolio of brands, channels and geographies.

Our marketing strategies vary by brand, local market and distribution channel. We have a diverse portfolio of brands, and we employ different engagement models suited to each brand’s equity, distribution, product focus, understanding of the core consumer and local relevance. This enables us to elevate the consumer experience as we attract new consumers, create trial, build loyalty, drive consumer advocacy and address the transformation of consumer shopping behaviors. Hero products are at the core of the brand marketing strategies and have become the key drivers of repeat sales and loyalty. Our marketing planning approach leverages local insights to optimize allocation of resources across different media outlets and retail touch points to resonate with our most discerning consumers most effectively. This includes strategically deploying our brands and tailoring product assortments and communications to fit local tastes and preferences in cities and neighborhoods. Most of our creative marketing work is done by in-house teams, in collaboration with external resources, that design and produce the sales materials, social media strategies, advertisements and packaging for products in each brand. For a number of products, we create and deploy 360° integrated consumer engagement programs. We build brand equity and drive traffic to retail locations and to our own and authorized retailers’ websites through digital and social media, magazines and newspapers, television, billboards in cities and airports, and direct mail and email. In addition, we seek editorial coverage for our brands and products in digital and social media and print, to drive influencer amplification.
We are increasing our brand awareness and sales through our strategic emphasis on technology, by continuing to elevate our digital presence encompassing e-commerce and m-commerce, as well as digital, social media and influencer marketing. We are investing in new analytical capabilities to promote a more personalized experience across our distribution channels. We continue to innovate to better meet consumer online shopping preferences (e.g., how-to videos, ratings and reviews and mobile phone and tablet applications), support e-commerce and m-commerce businesses via digital and social marketing activities designed to build brand equity and “High-Touch” consumer engagement, in order to continue to offer unparalleled service and set the standard for prestige beauty shopping online. We also support our authorized retailers to strengthen their e-commerce businesses and drive sales of our brands on their websites. We have opportunities to expand our brand portfolio online around the world, and we are investing in and testing new omnichannel concepts in the United States, China and other markets to increase brand loyalty by better serving consumers as they shop across channels and travel corridors. We have dedicated resources to implement creative, coordinated, brand-enhancing strategies across all online activities to increase our direct access to consumers.
Promotional activities, in-store displays, and online navigation are designed to attract new consumers, build demand and loyalty and introduce existing consumers to other product offerings from the respective brands. Our marketing efforts also benefit from cooperative advertising programs with some retailers, some of which are supported by coordinated promotions, such as sampling programs, including purchase with purchase and gift with purchase. Sampling is a key promotional activity as the quality and perceived benefits of sample products are very effective inducements to purchases by new and existing consumers. Such activities attract consumers to our counters and websites and keep existing consumers engaged. Our marketing and sales executives spend considerable time in the field meeting with consumers, retailers, beauty advisors and makeup artists at the points of sale to enable us to offer a seamless experience across channels of distribution.


9
Table of Contents
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a significant impact on consumer behaviors and has accelerated the trend for a digital-first consumer journey and e-commerce. This provided a catalyst for redesigning each brand's high-touch experience and accelerated the implementation of new direct-to-consumer business models and consumer engagement programs, such as selling through social media and web conferencing platforms ("Social Selling"). These models and programs provide distinct one-to-one and one-to-many high-touch omnichannel services and personalized experiences by leveraging technology and our talented beauty advisors, consultants, and makeup artists.
Information Technology
Information technology supports all aspects of our business, including product development, marketing, sales, order processing, production, distribution and finance. We continue to maintain and enhance our information technology systems in alignment with our long-term strategy. An increasing portion of our global information technology infrastructure is cloud-based. This allows for a more scalable platform to support current and future requirements and improves our agility and flexibility to respond to the demands of the business by leveraging more advanced technologies.
We recognize that technology presents opportunities for competitive advantage, and we continue to invest in new capabilities across various aspects of our business. During fiscal 2020, we improved our remote working infrastructure and resilience plans, deployed capabilities to enhance data analytics, launched new marketing capabilities to drive deeper consumer engagement and elevated the in-store experience through innovative technologies. Over the next few years, we plan to expand our seamless omni-retail capabilities, expand our Social Selling, create manufacturing and distribution facilities of the future powered by technology and utilize predictive analytics to optimize our supply and demand planning.
Research and Development
We believe that we are an industry leader in the development of new products. Our research and development group, which includes scientists, engineers and other employees involved in product innovation and packaging design and development, works closely with our marketing and product development teams and third-party suppliers to generate ideas, develop new products and product-line extensions, create new packaging concepts, and improve, redesign or reformulate existing products. In addition, these research and development personnel provide ongoing technical assistance and know-how to quality assurance and manufacturing personnel on a worldwide basis, to ensure consistent global standards for our products and to deliver products that meet or exceed consumer expectations. The research and development group has long-standing working relationships with several U.S. and international medical and educational facilities, which supplement internal capabilities. Members of the research and development group are also responsible for regulatory compliance matters. As our business continues to grow globally, and to satisfy the demand for locally relevant consumer products, we have increased our focus on innovation in Asia/Pacific, especially in China, as well as in Korea and Japan.
Our research and development costs totaled $228 million, $202 million and $181 million in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are expensed as incurred. As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately 930 employees engaged in research and development activities. We maintain research and development programs at certain of our principal facilities and facilities dedicated to performing research and development, see Item 2. Properties.
Manufacturing, Warehousing and Raw Materials
We manufacture our products primarily in the United States, Belgium, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and Canada and leverage global third-party manufacturing networks. We continue to streamline our manufacturing processes and identify sourcing opportunities to improve innovation, increase efficiencies, minimize our impact on the environment, ensure supply sufficiency and reduce costs. Our plants are modern, and our manufacturing processes are substantially automated. While we believe that our manufacturing network of internal and external sites is sufficient to meet current and reasonably anticipated increased requirements, we continue to implement improvements in capacity, technology, and productivity and align our manufacturing with regional sales demand to be more agile. From time to time, demand changes may challenge our capacity for certain subcategories on a short-term basis, but we believe, this will not impact our ability to meet our annual or longer-term strategic objectives. To capitalize on innovation and other supply chain benefits, we continue to utilize a network of third-party manufacturers on a global basis.
We have established a flexible global distribution network of logistic providers that are managed by us or third parties. The network is designed to meet the changing demands of our customers while maintaining service levels. We are continuously evaluating and adjusting this physical distribution network. We have established regional and local distribution centers, including those maintained by third parties, strategically positioned throughout the world in order to facilitate efficient delivery of our products to our customers.
10
Table of Contents
We continue to focus on citizenship and sustainability across our operations. Focus areas include employee safety and minimizing our impact on the environment. This is achieved, in part, through investment in equipment meeting safety regulations while enhancing the work environment through safe practices and capabilities. Our equipment and buildings are also continually improved to support and deliver our sustainability goals and reduce our impact on the environment. Environmental efforts include waste reduction, zero industrial waste to landfill and investment in renewable energy sources.
The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of our products are essential oils, alcohols and specialty chemicals. We also purchase packaging components that are manufactured to our design specifications. Procurement of materials for all manufacturing facilities is generally made on a global basis through our Global Supplier Relations function. We review our supplier base periodically with the specific objectives of improving quality, increasing innovation and speed-to-market, ensuring supply sufficiency and reducing costs. In addition, we focus on supply sourcing within the region of manufacture to allow for improved supply chain efficiencies, lead-time reduction and reduced carbon footprint. Some of our products rely on a single or limited number of suppliers; however, we believe that our portfolio of suppliers has adequate resources and facilities to overcome most unforeseen interruptions of supply. In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of essential raw materials and currently believe we have adequate sources of supply for virtually all components of our products. To further ensure the adequacy of supply, we utilize sophisticated planning tools and deploy various tactics such as strategic inventory buffer and multi-sourcing solutions.
We are continually benchmarking the performance of our supply chain, and we augment our supply base and adjust our distribution networks and manufacturing footprint based upon the changing needs of the business. As we integrate acquired brands, we continually seek new ways to leverage our production and sourcing capabilities to improve our overall supply chain performance.
As a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have leveraged our network of global supply, manufacturing and distribution, to help mitigate disruption to our supply chain and help enable our expected return to normal operations.
Competition

There is significant competition within each market where our skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products are sold. Brand recognition, product quality and effectiveness, distribution channels, accessibility, and price point are some of the factors that impact consumers’ choices among competing products and brands. Marketing, merchandising, in-store experiences and demonstrations, and new product innovations also have an impact on consumers’ purchasing decisions. With our portfolio of diverse brands sold in a variety of channels, we are one of the world’s leading manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products.

We compete against a number of global and local companies. Some of our competitors are large, well-known, multinational manufacturers and marketers of skin care, makeup, fragrance and hair care products, most of which market and sell their products under multiple brand names. Our competitors include L’Oreal S.A.; Unilever; Procter & Gamble; Shiseido Company, Ltd.; Coty, Inc.; LVMH Moët Hennessey Louis Vuitton; Beiersdorf; Chanel S.A.; Kao Corp; and Amorepacific Corp. We also face competition from a number of independent brands, some of which are backed by private-equity investors, as well as some retailers that have their own beauty brands. Certain of our competitors also have ownership interests in retailers that are customers of ours.

Trademarks, Patents and Copyrights
We own the trademark rights used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of our products both in the United States and in the other principal countries where such products are sold, including Estée Lauder, Clinique, Aramis, Prescriptives, Lab Series, Origins, M·A·C, Bobbi Brown, La Mer, Aveda, Jo Malone London, Bumble and bumble, Darphin, Smashbox, Le Labo, RODIN olio lusso, Editions de Parfums Frédéric Malle, GLAMGLOW, By Kilian, BECCA, Too Faced, Dr. Jart+ and the names of many of the products sold under these brands. We are the exclusive worldwide licensee for fragrances, cosmetics and/or related products for Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan New York, DKNY, Kiton, Michael Kors, Tom Ford, Dr. Andrew Weil, Ermenegildo Zegna and AERIN. For further discussion on license arrangements, including their duration, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies – License Arrangements. We protect our trademarks in the United States and significant markets worldwide. We consider the protection of our trademarks to be important to our business.


11
Table of Contents
A number of our products incorporate patented, patent-pending or proprietary technology. In addition, several products and packaging for such products are covered by design patents or copyrights. While we consider these patents and copyrights, and the protection thereof, to be important, no single patent or copyright, or group of patents or copyrights, is considered material to the conduct of our business.

Employees

At June 30, 2020, we had approximately 48,000 full-time employees worldwide (including demonstrators at points of sale who are employed by us). We have no employees in the United States that are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. A limited number of employees outside of the United States are covered by a works council agreement or other syndicate arrangements.

Government Regulation
We and our products are subject to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration and the Federal Trade Commission in the United States, as well as by various other federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities and the regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are produced or sold. Such regulations relate to a wide range of matters including ingredients, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, marketing, advertising, transport, the environment and the sale, disposal and safety of our products. There are no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities either planned in the current year or expected in the near future. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

Seasonality

Our results of operations in total, by region and by product category, are subject to seasonal fluctuations, with net sales in the first half of the fiscal year typically being slightly higher than in the second half of the fiscal year. The higher net sales in the first half of the fiscal year are attributable to the increased levels of purchasing by consumers for special events and by retailers for holiday selling seasons. Fluctuations in net sales and operating income in total and by geographic region and product category in any fiscal quarter may be attributable to the level and scope of new product introductions or the particular retail calendars followed by our customers that are retailers, which may impact their order placement and receipt of goods. Additionally, gross margins and operating expenses are impacted on a quarter-by-quarter basis by variations in our launch calendar and the timing of promotions, including purchase with purchase and gift with purchase promotions.

Availability of Reports

We make available financial information, news releases and other information on our website: www.elcompanies.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other reports, as well as any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are available free of charge via the EDGAR database at www.sec.gov or our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct
The Board of Directors has developed corporate governance practices to help it fulfill its responsibilities to stockholders in providing general direction and oversight of management. These practices are set forth in our Corporate Governance Guidelines. We also have a Code of Conduct (“Code”) applicable to all employees, officers and directors of the Company, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and other senior financial officers. These documents and any waiver of a provision of the Code granted to any senior officer or director or any material amendment to the Code may be found in the “Investors” section of our website: www.elcompanies.com under the heading “Corporate Governance.” The charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee may be found in the same location on our website. Stockholders may also contact Investor Relations at 767 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York 10153 to obtain a hard copy of these documents without charge.
12
Table of Contents
Information about our Executive Officers*
Name		Age		Position(s) Held	John Demsey		64		Executive Group President	Fabrizio Freda		62		President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director	Carl Haney		57		Executive Vice President, Global Research and Development, Corporate Product Innovation, Package Development	Jane Hertzmark Hudis		60		Executive Group President	Leonard A. Lauder		87		Chairman Emeritus and a Director	Ronald S. Lauder		76		Chairman of Clinique Laboratories, LLC and a Director	William P. Lauder		60		Executive Chairman and a Director	Sara E. Moss		73		Vice Chairman	Michael O’Hare		52		Executive Vice President – Global Human Resources	Gregory F. Polcer		65		Executive Vice President – Global Supply Chain	Cedric Prouvé		60		Group President – International	Deirdre Stanley		55		Executive Vice President and General Counsel	Tracey T. Travis		58		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	Alexandra C. Trower		55		Executive Vice President – Global Communications 
*as of August 20, 2020
All of the executive officers named above have been employees of the Company for more than five years, with the exception of Deirdre Stanley. Ms. Stanley joined the Company in 2019. Previously, she served as General Counsel for The Thomson Reuters Corporation, a provider of business information services, and its predecessor company for 17 years.

Information about our Board of Directors*
Name		Principal Occupation or Employment	Charlene Barshefsky		Senior International Partner, WilmerHale, a law firm	Rose Marie Bravo, CBE		Retail and Marketing Consultant	Wei Sun Christianson		Managing Director and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Asia Pacific and
Chief Executive Officer of China at Morgan Stanley, a global financial services firm	Lynn Forester de Rothschild		Chair, E.L. Rothschild LLC, a private investment company	Fabrizio Freda		President and Chief Executive Officer, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.	Paul J. Fribourg		Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Continental Grain Company, an international agribusiness and investment company	Irvine O. Hockaday, Jr.		Former President and Chief Executive Officer, Hallmark Cards, Inc.	Jennifer Hyman		Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, Rent the Runway, Inc., a company that rents designer clothing and accessories to women	Jane Lauder		Executive Vice President, Enterprise Marketing and Chief Data Officer, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.	Leonard A. Lauder		Chairman Emeritus, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.	Ronald S. Lauder		Chairman, Clinique Laboratories, LLC	William P. Lauder		Executive Chairman, The Estée Lauder Companies Inc.	Richard D. Parsons		Senior Advisor, Providence Equity Partners LLC, a global private equity and investment firm, and co-founder and partner of Imagination Capital LLC, a venture capital firm	Barry S. Sternlicht		Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Starwood Capital Group, a privately-held global investment firm	Jennifer Tejada		Chief Executive Officer and Chair, PagerDuty, Inc., a digital operations management platform	Richard F. Zannino		Managing Director, CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC, a private equity firm 
*as of August 20, 2020