Overview: Powering the World’s Digital Leaders
Equinix is a global digital infrastructure company. Digital leaders harness our trusted platform to bring together and interconnect the foundational infrastructure that powers their digital success. We enable our customers to access all the right places, partners and possibilities they need to accelerate their digital advantage. Platform Equinix® combines a global footprint of International Business Exchange™ ("IBX®") data centers in the Americas ("AMER"), Asia-Pacific ("APAC"), and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") regions, interconnection solutions, edge services, unique business and digital ecosystems and expert consulting and support. Equinix was incorporated on June 22, 1998 as a Delaware corporation and operates as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes ("REIT").
Al Avery and Jay Adelson founded Equinix as a vendor-neutral multi-tenant data center ("MTDC") provider where competing networks could connect and share data traffic to help scale the rapid growth of the early internet. The company’s name, Equinix (composed from the words "equality", "neutrality" and "internet exchange"), reflects that vision. The founders also believed they not only had the opportunity but also the responsibility to create a company that would be the steward of some of the most important digital infrastructure assets in the world. Two decades later, we have expanded upon that vision to build Platform Equinix, with unmatched scale and reach.
Our interconnected data centers around the world allow our customers to bring together and interconnect the infrastructure they need to fast-track their digital advantage. With Equinix, they can scale with agility, speed the launch of digital services, deliver world-class experiences and multiply their value. We enable them to increase information and application delivery performance for users, and quickly deploy distributed IT infrastructures and access business and digital ecosystems, all while significantly reducing costs and latency. The Equinix global platform, and the quality of our IBX data centers, interconnection offerings and edge services, have enabled us to establish a critical mass of customers. As more customers choose Platform Equinix, for bandwidth cost and performance reasons it benefits their suppliers and business partners to colocate in the same data centers and connect directly with each other. This adjacency creates a “network effect” that attracts new customers and enables our existing customers to capture further economic and performance benefits from our offerings.
5
Table of Contents
eqix-20201231_g2.jpg
In 2020, we opened six new IBX data centers, invested in xScaleTM data centers, and added capacity in 14 markets resulting in an increase in our total number of IBX and xScaleTM data center facilities to more than 225, including our acquisition of 13 data centers in Canada. 2020 highlights include:
•New data center openings in 2020 included six new IBX sites in the following metros: Washington DC, Dallas, Warsaw, and Hamburg, with an opening in Muscat, Oman held in an unconsolidated entity and a new market entry announced for Bordeaux, France.
•We began construction on five additional xScaleTM sites in 2020. xScaleTM data centers serve the needs of the growing hyperscale data center market, including the world's largest cloud service providers, and are engineered to meet the technical and operational requirements and price points of core hyperscale workload deployments. xScaleTM data centers also offer access to our comprehensive suite of interconnection and edge services that tie into the hyperscale companies' existing access points at Equinix, thereby increasing the speed of connectivity to their existing and future enterprise customers. In xScaleTM sites, hyperscale companies can consolidate core and access point deployments into one global provider to streamline and simplify their rapid growth.
•In the fourth quarter of 2020, we acquired 13 data centers from BCE Inc. ("Bell') in Canada (the "Bell Acquisition"), solidifying our position as a leading digital infrastructure provider in the country, with a total of 15 data centers that we now operate coast-to-coast across eight metros. The Bell Acquisition allows us to expand our reach with seven new metros in six provinces, adding more than 600 customer accounts from diverse sectors, including enterprise, cloud, IT, government, energy and financial services. In addition to adding new capacity in Toronto where we already operated two IBX data centers, we acquired data centers in Calgary, Kamloops, Saint John, Montreal, Ottawa, Vancouver and Winnipeg. The transaction opens key gateways from North America to Asia through Vancouver and North America to Europe through the submarine cable systems in the Saint John area in New Brunswick.
•In August 2020, we announced our intended expansion into India, a new market, entering into an agreement to purchase the India operations of GPX Global Systems, Inc. ("GPX India"). The acquisition, expected to close in Q2 2021 subject to regulatory approval, includes the two most interconnected data centers in India, with a well-established ecosystem in Mumbai that includes more than 200 interconnection-rich customers, international brands and key local players. India has the world’s second largest population and the second largest base of internet subscribers, fueling demand for data centers and colocation offerings. This planned acquisition underscores our goal to extend Platform Equinix to support our customers’ digital edge strategies.
•In March 2020, we completed our acquisition of leading bare metal automation company Packet Host, Inc. ("Packet") (the "Packet Acquisition"). Packet’s capabilities became Equinix MetalTM which adds direct integration to Equinix FabricTM and expands the services to new global locations. With Equinix Metal, enterprises, SaaS companies and digital service providers can provision interconnected bare metal resources in minutes instead of months, while reducing the capital expenditures and operational requirements of owning hardware. They can also reduce cloud costs while retaining the flexibility and operational expenditures of cloud services via on demand, reserved or spot market capacity in our global data centers using the Equinix Metal portal or DevOps-friendly APIs and integrations. An important piece of our Platform strategy, this acquisition advances our vision to deliver the most advanced solutions for customers to rapidly deploy digital infrastructure at global scale.
6
Table of Contents
•In January 2020, we expanded into two new Mexico metros, with our acquisition of three data centers from Axtel S.A.B. de C.V. ("Axtel") that serve the Mexico City and Monterrey metro areas. This expansion, when combined with previous Equinix acquisitions of key regional traffic hubs in Dallas ("Infomart") and Miami (the NAP of the Americas), further strengthens our global platform by increasing interconnection between North, Central and South America. Mexico is the world's eleventh-largest economy and the second largest in Latin America. The country's telecommunications reform of 2013 has created opportunities for many businesses seeking to expand into Mexico, allowing for open competition by non-governmental entities and providing an opportunity for the growth of service provider and enterprise ecosystems that flourish within our network-neutral data centers globally.
Industry Trends: Taking Digital Business to the Edge
Digital transformation is changing where and how businesses deploy and deliver IT services to employees and is creating new digital business models for partners and customers. The convergence of these global trends and the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have created additional pressure for many companies to transform. The collective influence of these trends is driving complexity and risk that must be addressed in multiple locations for companies to effectively compete in the global digital economy. These trends include:
•Digital business: As organizations transform their traditional lines of business, they are being asked to reduce costs and become more efficient while accelerating the development of new insights. This requires transforming network architecture while distributing digital infrastructure in strategic locations to support local interconnection between user services, data, clouds and ecosystem partners.
•Urbanization: This is driving an increase in population centers needing digital engagement; however, a more recent trend has been migration out of cities due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. This is causing an expansion in the overall digital edge, which requires companies to locate digital services close to users to deliver great user experiences. These same concentrations of people provide an economy of scale which makes it cost effective to distribute applications, data, content and networking to serve these locations.
•Cybersecurity: A cybersecurity breach is one of the most serious risks facing companies today, and many of the most serious breaches occur via a penetration of a company’s business partners’ networks. To protect against this, businesses need to develop best practices to distribute their security controls and infrastructure out to digital exchanges where most traffic exchange is happening.
•Data volumes and compliance: Demand for local data analysis and data exchange to support digital workflows is outpacing organizations’ ability to classify, secure, privately transport and process data across regions. To meet new regulations and drive new strategic value, companies need to deploy distributed data storage, analytics and clouds within the same jurisdiction, and then replicate this across multiple global locations.
•Business ecosystems: Digital trade flows involve an increasing variety of customers, partners and employees. To enable this, companies deploy a digital presence in close physical proximity to an application exchange point and then connect to it directly to support real-time engagement. In the aggregate, these form a business ecosystem. These ecosystems are expanding in depth and number.
These trends are accelerating the need for companies like Equinix who can provide a secure, agile global business platform that leverages digital interconnection—or private data exchange—to deliver real-time interactions around the world.
As part of their digital transformation, businesses in most industries are shifting their centralized IT infrastructures to the edge to bring digital services closer to users for better performance, which has become a significant driver of digital business value. To realize the full potential of the edge, IT organizations require greater interconnection bandwidth. Interconnection bandwidth is defined as the total capacity provisioned to privately and directly exchange traffic, with a diverse set of partners and providers, at distributed IT exchange points inside carrier-neutral colocation data centers. Private interconnection capacity between businesses, as reported in the fourth annual Global Interconnection Index ("GXI"), a market study published by Equinix, is anticipated to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 45% by 2023, reaching 16,300+ terabits per second of data exchanged annually.
7
Table of Contents
Worldwide Interconnection Bandwidth Capacity Growth (2018 - 2022) in Terabits per Second (Tbps)
eqix-20201231_g3.jpg
Source: GXI Volume 4
Equinix Business Proposition: Bring together and interconnect the infrastructure you need to fast-track your digital advantage
In 2020, we continued to build new data center, interconnection and edge services capabilities that we intend will further our vision to power the world’s digital leaders. On Platform Equinix, digital leaders can bring together all the right places, partners and possibilities to create the foundational infrastructure they need to succeed. We offer a comprehensive, integrated suite of data center, interconnection and edge services and products to close to 10,000 enterprise and service provider customers worldwide.

eqix-20201231_g4.jpg
The following are the leading revenue generating product and other offerings that collectively make up Platform Equinix:    
Data Center Solutions
Our global, state-of-the-art data centers meet strict standards of security, reliability, certification and sustainability. Offerings in these data centers are typically billed based on the space and power a customer consumes, are delivered under a fixed duration contract and generate monthly recurring revenue ("MRR").
•IBX Data Centers consist of more than 220 IBX vendor-neutral colocation data centers worldwide, providing our customers with secure, reliable and robust environments (including space and power) that are necessary to aggregate and distribute information and connect digital and business ecosystems globally. IBX data centers provide access to vital ecosystems where enterprises, network, cloud and SaaS providers, and business partners directly and securely interconnect to each other.
•xScaleTM Data Centers are designed to serve the unique core workload deployment needs of a targeted group of hyperscale companies, which include the world's largest cloud service providers. With xScaleTM data centers, hyperscale customers add to their core hyperscale data center deployments and existing customer access points at Equinix, allowing streamlined expansion with a single global vendor.
8
Table of Contents
•IBX SmartView is a fully integrated monitoring software which provides customers visibility into the operating data relevant to their specific Equinix footprint as if they were in-house. The software provides online access to real-time environmental and operating data through the Equinix Customer Portal or API integrations. With real-time alerts and configurable reporting, IBX SmartView allows customers to maintain their IBX operations and plan for future growth.
Interconnection Solutions
Our interconnection solutions connect businesses directly, securely and dynamically within and between our data centers across our global platform. Our interconnection services are typically billed based on the outbound connections from a customer and generate MRR.
•Equinix Fabric™ provides secure, on-demand, software-defined interconnection. Built specifically for digital infrastructure, Equinix Fabric enables businesses to connect globally to their choice of thousands of networking, storage, compute and application service providers in the industry’s largest infrastructure ecosystem. As the foundation of Platform Equinix’s interconnection capability, Equinix Fabric enables customers to quickly and easily connect their physical and virtual digital infrastructures.
•Cross Connects provide a point-to-point cable link between two Equinix customers in the same IBX data center. Cross Connects deliver fast, convenient, affordable and highly reliable connectivity and data exchange with business partners and service providers within the Equinix ecosystem.
•Equinix Internet Exchange™ enables networks, content providers and large enterprises to exchange internet traffic through the largest global peering solution. Service providers can aggregate traffic to multiple counterparties, called peers, on one physical port and handle multiple small peers while moving high-traffic peers to private interconnections. This reduces latency for end-users when accessing content and applications.
•Equinix Connect is an agile, scalable, resilient and high performing internet access solution. With at least two upstream ISPs in each market, Equinix Connect offers the resiliency that organizations demand and direct connections to major content destinations, resulting in superior performance. It provides the convenience of a one-stop shop and the flexibility required to connect to the internet as a primary or secondary access solution. Available globally in more than 40 markets, Equinix Connect allows businesses to grow as their needs grow with scalable bandwidth options to meet their emerging usage requirements.
Edge Services
Our edge services help businesses rapidly deploy as-a-service networking, security and hardware across our global data center footprint - as an alternative to buying, owning and managing the physical infrastructure. Our edge services are typically billed based on the number of instances and the capacity used by a customer and generate MRR.
•Network Edge allows customers to modernize networks within minutes, by deploying network functions virtualization ("NFV") from multiple vendors across Equinix metros. Companies can select, deploy and connect virtual network services at the edge quickly, with no additional hardware requirements.
•Equinix SmartKey™ helps customers simplify data protection across any cloud architecture via a global SaaS-based, hardware security module management and cryptography service that provides on-premises and hybrid multicloud encryption key management.
•Equinix Metal™ allows enterprises, SaaS companies and digital service providers to provision interconnected bare metal resources in minutes instead of months, while reducing the capital expenditures and operational requirements of owning hardware. They can also reduce cloud costs while retaining the flexibility and operational expenditures of cloud services via on demand, reserved or spot market capacity in Equinix’s global data centers using the Equinix Metal portal or DevOps-friendly APIs and integrations.
Colocation Offerings
Equinix offers a variety of colocation offerings designed to speed and streamline digital transformation and data center deployments for its customers. These services are typically billed based on consumption and generate non-recurring revenue ("NRR").
•Equinix Smart Hands provides around-the-clock, on-site, operational support service for remote management, installation and troubleshooting of customer data center equipment. Using Equinix IBX data
9
Table of Contents
center technicians, Smart Hands allows customers to manage and outsource their business operations and maximize uptime whether from within an IBX data center or from a remote location. Providing remote management through Smart Hands has helped enable some customers to continue managing business operations in spite of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
•Equinix Infrastructure Services (EIS) provides customers with a one-stop shop for data center installation, migration and equipment procurement. With proven practices developed over many years of successfully building, migrating and optimizing our customers’ data center needs, EIS services lend expertise to address larger, more complex data center jobs including installation and implementation of new builds, planned migrations, structured cabling, labelling and documentation, procurement recommendations and coordination, and secure de-installation.
Competition
While a large number of enterprises and service providers, such as hyperscale cloud service providers, own their own data centers, We believe the industry is shifting away from single-tenant solutions and outsourcing some or all of their IT housing and interconnection requirements to third party facilities, such as those operated by us.
Historically, that outsourcing market was served by large telecommunications carriers who bundled their products and services with their colocation offerings. The data center market landscape has evolved to include private and vendor-neutral MTDC providers, hyperscale cloud providers, managed infrastructure and application hosting providers, and systems integrators. It is estimated that Equinix is one of more than 1,200 companies that provide MTDC offerings around the world. The global MTDC market is highly fragmented. Each of these data center solutions providers can bundle various colocation, interconnection and network offerings and outsourced IT infrastructure solutions. We believe that this outsourcing trend is likely to accelerate in the coming years, especially in light of changes to digital business as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Equinix is differentiated in this market by being able to offer customers a global platform that reaches 26 countries and contains the industry’s largest and most active ecosystem of partners in our sites. This ecosystem creates a “network effect” which improves performance and lowers cost for our customers and is a significant source of competitive advantage for Equinix.
Customers
Our customers include telecommunications carriers, mobile and other network services providers, cloud and IT services providers, digital media and content providers, financial services companies, and global enterprise ecosystems in various industries. We provide each company access to a choice of business partners and solutions based on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT service needs, and delivered 99.9999% operational uptime across our global data centers in 2020. As of December 31, 2020, we had over 10,000 customers worldwide. No one customer made up 10% or more of our total business revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020.
The following companies represent some of our leading customers and partners:
eqix-20201231_g5.jpg
We serve our customers with a direct sales force and channel marketing program. We organize our sales force by customer type, as well as by establishing a sales presence in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient
10
Table of Contents
servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. We also support our customers with a global customer care organization.
Human Capital
As of December 31, 2020, we had 10,013 employees worldwide with 4,599 based in the Americas, 3,405 based in EMEA and 2,009 based in APAC. Of those employees, 4,436 employees were in engineering and operations, 1,911 employees were in sales and marketing and 3,666 employees were in management, finance and administration. We recognize that attracting, developing and retaining talent at all levels is vital to continuing our success and offer industry competitive compensation and benefits, along with development opportunities to help every employee achieve their full potential. In 2020, we expanded our portfolio of development programs for our employees. We have invested in a digital learning platform, providing access to on-demand learning to each of our employees. We have developed and rolled out several programs to help our leaders navigate the current environment. To ensure we are continuously improving employee experience and enabling our talent to thrive, we have enhanced our listening strategy, moving to more frequent surveys at several steps along an employee’s journey at Equinix.
At Equinix, we strive to build a culture where every employee, every day, can say “I’m Safe, I Belong and I Matter” and develop our workforce, at all levels, to better reflect and represent the communities in which we operate. Our objective is to continue to make our culture a critical competitive advantage, engaging every leader and every employee in the process. To ensure we are upholding our core corporate values and making progress toward our goals, we monitor our employee satisfaction through our quarterly survey, which is our listening mechanism. In 2020, employee satisfaction averaged 85%.
We are integrating a focus on diversity, inclusion and belonging ("DIB") into every aspect of how we run our business and have initiated a multi-year DIB strategy with governance through a DIB Council chaired by our CEO and CHRO, in partnership with our Sustainability Program Office, that oversees our progress on environment, social and governance ("ESG") matters. Our DIB strategy focuses on attracting, retaining and developing a diverse, global workforce; building leadership capability; and empowering our people to bring DIB to life. Equinix representatives have joined the G100 Talent Consortium Task Force on Racial Inequity in Business to consider core inequity issues, including anti-racism, bias, and hiring and promotability practices, in order to develop tangible best practices that companies can use as guide rails to increase representation and career mobility for black, indigenous and people of color ("BIPOC") employees. In 2020, we hosted a Days of Understanding event as part of an initiative of CEO ACT!ON, a pledge Equinix has taken along with hundreds of other companies to embrace difference in our organizations, educate our people and build more inclusive cultures inside and outside of our workplaces. We also have employee-led connection networks ("ECNs"), each representing an identity/community that is underrepresented at Equinix, has faced historical discrimination or shares unique challenges, integrated in our DIB strategy.
Our Community Impact program promotes connection and belonging, and enables employees to give back, with the support of Equinix, to the communities in which we work and live. In total, our Community Impact efforts in 2020 resulted in approximately $2.8 million in employee donations, corporate matching and grants, and more than 9,350 volunteer hours, to approximately 1,750 nonprofits worldwide.
We believe our commitment to the highest standards of honesty, integrity and ethical behavior differentiates our business as much as our technology. We promote these high standards through a number of policies including the Equinix Code of Business Conduct. All employees are required to complete trainings on ethics and the company’s anti-bribery and corruption policies. In addition, we maintain a confidential ethics helpline where employees are encouraged to speak up if they have any questions or concerns that our code is being violated. We have a zero-tolerance, non-retaliation policy that protects our employees when they speak up.
In a year disrupted by the unprecedented global pandemic caused by COVID-19, we implemented a number of precautionary measures in line with our business continuity and pandemic plans to minimize the risk of operational impacts and to protect the health and safety of employees, customers, partners and our communities. During the pandemic, we have offered a range of support to our employees including “work from home” policies, financial assistance and health and wellness resources. We also incurred one-time cash bonuses and compensation expense of $8.6 million for our IBX employees as well as other employees to support their work-from-home requirements during the first quarter of 2020. To ensure a careful, safe and responsible eventual return to office, we have developed a roadmap based on guidance from health experts and other leaders from around the world.
We believe that all of these programs and initiatives support our human capital goals, align with our company culture, and increase employee satisfaction.
11
Table of Contents
eqix-20201231_g6.jpg
Sustainability
Equinix is committed to protecting, connecting and powering a more sustainable digital world and to greening our customers' supply chains. Through our sustainability efforts, Equinix strives to protect our planet and climate, unleash our people's potential to be a force for good, and lead with purpose and integrity in everything we do. Our definition of business growth and success includes steadfastly adhering to best-in-class ESG practices.
Environmental Performance
Equinix was the first data center company to commit to a long-term goal of 100% renewable energy across our global portfolio. Equinix uses local renewable energy sources where possible, seeks new or recently built renewable sources and advocates for favorable renewable energy policies. In the U.S., Equinix purchases nearly 2.3 million megawatt-hours ("MWh") of green power annually from a portfolio of renewable energy projects, including 225 MW of wind power under long-term virtual power purchase agreements ("VPPAs") located in Texas and Oklahoma. In 2019, over 90% of Equinix's global electricity consumption, and 100% of U.S. electricity consumption was covered by renewable energy sources. Calendar year data for 2020 will become available Q2 2021 and will be published in our annual Corporate Sustainability Report.
We have won numerous awards for our leading sustainability practices and our significant contributions to the renewable energy market. In 2020, Equinix was named the Green Power Partner of the Year by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"). The award recognizes Equinix's leadership and commitment to advancing the development of the nation's voluntary green power market.
Equinix is committed to transparently measuring and reporting our global carbon footprint across direct (Scope 1), indirect energy (Scope 2) and indirect value chain (Scope 3) emissions. Since 2015, we have achieved a 60% reduction in carbon emissions on an absolute basis (Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based metric tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent (mtCO2e)), even as we doubled our footprint in both energy consumption and number of sites. In 2020, CDP, a global non-governmental organization ("NGO") dedicated to helping investors and companies measure and manage their climate risks, recognized our commitments, actions and progress on climate change. Equinix received an 'A-' CDP leadership score for climate action.
To support our ongoing sustainability initiatives, in 2020, we issued our first green bonds totaling $1.35 billion. An amount equal to the net proceeds of the green bonds will be allocated to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, ongoing and new projects in categories such as green buildings, renewable energy, energy efficiency, sustainable water and wastewater management, waste management and clean transportation, as outlined in our Green Finance Framework. Our Green Finance Framework aligns Equinix's sustainability commitments with our long-term financing needs and highlights our pipeline of green projects and data center innovations.
12
Table of Contents
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") Disclosures
SASB published the Sustainability Accounting Standard ("Standard") for the Real Estate Industry in October 2018. Equinix has aligned its SASB disclosures with the Real Estate Standard to enhance corporate disclosure around ESG performance. In our comprehensive disclosures in our annual Corporate Sustainability Report we also document our progress against metrics as outlined in other frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative ("GRI"), UN Sustainable Development Goals ("SDGs") and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD"). The following tables detail our energy metrics, aligned with the SASB Real Estate Standard. We intend to expand our reporting around the Real Estate Standard in the future.
The following metrics represent Equinix's colocation and hyperscale (xScaleTM) data center facilities' performance in the calendar years specified. Energy, renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions are independently assured to ISO 14064-3:2006 standards for the quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. Calendar year data for 2020 is expected to become available Q2 2021.
Energy Management: Energy Consumption
Year	Energy Consumption Data as a % of Floor Area	
Total Energy Consumed by Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (MWh)(1)
Like-for-Like Change in Energy Consumption of Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (MWh)(2)
Grid Electricity Consumption as a % of Energy Consumption	
Energy Consumption from Renewable Sources(3) (kWh)
Renewable Energy as a % of Energy Consumption	Renewable Energy as a % of Electricity Consumption	
2018(4)(5)
99.9%	5,162,000	N/A	95.3%	4,689,000	91%	92%	
2019(6)(7)
94.9%	5,711,000	3.6%	94.4%	5,168,000	91%	91% 

(1)The scope of energy consumed includes diesel, natural gas, purchased electricity, purchased chilled water and purchased electricity from fuel cells installed onsite. The only asset type included is data centers (Equinix’s 2019 sustainability report also included offices and the Infomart at DA99). The coverage is Whole Building.
(2)Like-for-like computed for stabilized asset list for the overlapping list of sites designated as stabilized in 2018 and 2019.
(3)Excludes renewable energy supplied in the standard generation mix from local utilities. Includes renewable energy certificates (through VPPAs, bundled supplier agreements, green tariffs and unbundled purchases).
(4)Excludes reseller sites (DA99, JK1, OS99, SH1).
(5)2018 portfolio coverage excludes xScaleTM sites: PA8x, LD13x.
(6)The 2019 10-K included recently constructed or acquired sites for which no utility data had been included within the greenhouse gas inventory boundary. This includes the following sites with no energy data reported within the SASB metrics for 2019: Data Centers: Asia-Pacific (ME2, SG4, SY5, TY11, SL1). Reseller sites are also excluded in the energy metrics (DA99, JK1, OS99, SH1). Equinix's Axtel Acquisition and Bell Acquisition sites from 2020 are also excluded.
(7)2019 portfolio coverage includes xScaleTM sites: PA8x, LD13x.
Energy Management: Green Building Ratings
Equinix's environmental efforts aim to deliver meaningful and measurable progress against sustainability goals that positively impact its customers, partners, investors and employees. Our data centers are designed to take advantage of local environmental conditions and to maximize operational efficiency. Equinix evaluates cost-efficient opportunities to enhance energy efficiency and bring renewable energy to the site for existing or acquired sites.
Equinix is protecting our planet's resources through green data center innovations and building and operating energy-efficient data centers around the world. Equinix's Energy Efficiency Center of Excellence is driving a global approach to cooling its existing data centers more efficiently. The program engages customers to manage their implementations more sustainably at Equinix's facilities, leading to overall improved site efficiencies.
Equinix certifies to numerous green buildings and energy management certifications and schemes. These include USGBC LEED green buildings certifications, ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Standard, ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management Standard, BCA Green Mark, U.S. EPA Energy Star for Data Centers and others.
Data centers receiving green building ratings in 2019 and 2020 totaled more than 1.3 million gross sq. ft. The following new sites received ratings in 2019 or 2020. Additional sites and phases are pending final submissions.
13
Table of Contents
Data Center	Metro Area	Rating Scheme	Level Achieved	DC15 Phase 1	Ashburn, Virginia	Green Globes	Three Globes	HK4 Phase 2	Hong Kong	LEED	Silver	ME2 Phase 1	Melbourne, Australia	LEED	Gold	SG4 Phase 1	Singapore	BCA Green Mark	GoldPlus	SH6 Partner Site	Shanghai, China	LEED	Platinum	SY5 Phase 1	Sydney, Australia	LEED	Silver	TY11 Phase 1	Tokyo, Japan	LEED	Silver 
In 2020, Equinix had 16.1 million gross sq. ft., or 72% of global footprint, in operation with green buildings and energy management certifications. Within the U.S., Equinix had 4.7 million gross sq. ft or 49% of its footprint under certification including 0.8 million of gross sq. ft., or 8% of U.S. footprint, having achieved U.S. EPA Energy Star for Data Centers.
Year	Total Gross sq. ft. (million)	
Countries with Eligible Portfolio(1)
Area of Eligible Portfolio with Green Building Rating (million sq. ft.)(2
Eligible Portfolio with Green Building Rating (%)	Global Total through 2020	22.3	
Americas: U.S., Canada, Columbia, Brazil

Asia-Pacific: Australia, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore

EMEA: Bulgaria, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UAE, United Kingdom
16.1	72%	U.S. Total through 2020	9.5	
Americas: U.S.
4.7 (LEED and Energy Star)
0.8 (Energy Star)(3)
49% (LEED and Energy Star)
8% (Energy Star) 
(1)Countries excluded from metrics above: Americas (Mexico), Asia-Pacific (Indonesia, South Korea).
(2)Ratings included in our totals: ISO 50001 Energy Management, ISO 14001 Environmental Management, LEED green buildings certifications, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star for Data Centers, BCA Green Mark, NABERS and Green Globes.
(3)Equinix is currently evaluating its approach to U.S. EPA Energy Star for Data Centers. In 2019 and 2020, five sites received Energy Star for Data Centers recognition, representing 8% of our U.S. portfolio. In contrast, Equinix's U.S. portfolio has 17 LEED-certified data centers or 41% of the U.S. portfolio by gross square footage.
Our Business Segment Financial Information
We currently operate in three reportable segments comprised of our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific geographic regions. Information attributable to each of our reportable segments is set forth in Note 17 within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Available Information
Equinix owns and maintains intellectual property in the form of trademarks, patents, application programming interfaces, customer portals and a variety of products and other offerings.
We were incorporated in Delaware in June 1998. We are required to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information.
You may also obtain copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports, free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations page on our website, www.equinix.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.