Please refer to the Glossary of Terms for definitions of defined terms and abbreviations used in this combined Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Eversource Energy, headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts and Hartford, Connecticut, is a public utility holding company subject to regulation by the FERC under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005. We are engaged primarily in the energy delivery business through the following wholly-owned utility subsidiaries:

•The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut;

•NSTAR Electric Company (NSTAR Electric), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of eastern and western Massachusetts and owns solar power facilities;

•Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH), a regulated electric utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of New Hampshire;

•NSTAR Gas Company (NSTAR Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts;

•Eversource Gas Company of Massachusetts (EGMA), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Massachusetts;

•Yankee Gas Services Company (Yankee Gas), a regulated natural gas utility that serves residential, commercial and industrial customers in parts of Connecticut; and

•Eversource Aquarion Holdings, Inc. (Aquarion), a utility holding company that owns three separate regulated water utility subsidiaries and collectively serves residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal and fire protection customers in parts of Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.

CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH also serve New England customers through Eversource Energy's electric transmission business. Along with NSTAR Gas, EGMA and Yankee Gas, each is doing business as Eversource Energy in its respective service territory.

On October 9, 2020, Eversource acquired certain assets and liabilities that comprised NiSource Inc.’s natural gas distribution business in Massachusetts, which was previously doing business as Columbia Gas of Massachusetts (CMA). The natural gas distribution assets acquired from CMA were assigned to EGMA, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Eversource formed in 2020. The LNG assets acquired from CMA were assigned to Hopkinton LNG Corp.

Eversource Energy, CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH each report their financial results separately. We also include information in this report on a segment basis for Eversource Energy. Eversource Energy has four reportable segments: electric distribution, electric transmission, natural gas distribution and water distribution. These segments represent substantially all of Eversource Energy's total consolidated revenues. CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH do not report separate business segments.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT

Eversource Energy's electric distribution segment consists of the distribution businesses of CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH, which are engaged in the distribution of electricity to retail customers in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, respectively, and the solar power facilities of NSTAR Electric.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION – CONNECTICUT – THE CONNECTICUT LIGHT AND POWER COMPANY

CL&P's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2020, CL&P furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.27 million customers in 149 cities and towns in Connecticut, covering an area of approximately 4,400 square miles. CL&P does not own any electric generation facilities.


2

Rates

CL&P is subject to regulation by the PURA, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities.  CL&P's present general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.  CL&P's retail rates include a delivery service component, which includes distribution, transmission, conservation, renewable energy programs and other charges that are assessed on all customers.

Under Connecticut law, all of CL&P's customers are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while CL&P remains their electric distribution company.  For those customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier, under SS rates for customers with less than 500 kilowatts of demand (residential customers and small and medium commercial and industrial customers), and LRS rates for customers with 500 kilowatts or more of demand (larger commercial and industrial customers), CL&P purchases power under standard offer contracts and passes the cost of the purchased power to customers through a combined charge on customers' bills.

The rates established by the PURA for CL&P are comprised of the following:

•An electric GSC, which recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  The GSC is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A revenue decoupling adjustment that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the PURA of $1.099 billion effective May 1, 2018, $1.127 billion effective May 1, 2019, and $1.158 billion effective May 1, 2020. These pre-established levels of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirements are also subject to adjustment at each of these dates in accordance with provisions of the April 2018 rate case settlement agreement.

•A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver electricity to customers, as well as ongoing operating costs to maintain the infrastructure.  

•An Electric System Improvements (ESI) charge, which collects the costs of building and expanding the infrastructure to deliver electricity to customers above the level recovered through the distribution charge. The ESI also recovers costs associated with CL&P’s system resiliency program, which was implemented as part of CL&P's rate case settlement agreement that was approved by PURA in April 2018. The ESI is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•An FMCC, which recovers any costs imposed by the FERC as part of the New England Standard Market Design, including locational marginal pricing, locational installed capacity payments, any costs approved by the PURA to reduce these charges, as well as other costs approved by PURA.  The FMCC has both a bypassable component and a non-bypassable component, and is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the PURA, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. The transmission charge is adjusted periodically and reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A CTA charge, assessed to recover stranded costs associated with electric industry restructuring such as various IPP contracts.  The CTA is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•An SBC, established to fund expenses associated with various hardship and low-income programs. The SBC is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.  

•A Renewable Energy Investment Charge, which is used to promote investment in renewable energy sources.  Amounts collected by this charge are deposited into the Connecticut Clean Energy Fund and administered by the Connecticut Green Bank.  

•A Conservation Adjustment Mechanism (CAM) charge established to implement cost-effective energy conservation programs and market transformation initiatives. The CAM charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred, and reviewed by the PURA, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers through an approved adjustment to the following year’s energy conservation spending plan budget.

As required by regulation, CL&P has entered into long-term contracts for the purchase of (i) products from renewable energy facilities, which may include energy, renewable energy certificates, or capacity, (ii) capacity-related contracts with generation facilities, and (iii) contracts for peaking capacity.  Some of these contracts are subject to sharing agreements with UI, whereby CL&P is responsible for 80 percent and UI for 20 percent of the net costs or benefits.  CL&P's portion of the costs and benefits of these contracts will be paid by, or refunded to, CL&P's customers.

3

Distribution Rate Case: CL&P's distribution rates were established in an April 2018 PURA-approved rate case settlement agreement with rates effective May 1, 2018, and incremental step adjustments effective May 1, 2019 and May 1, 2020.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, CL&P does not own any generation assets and purchases energy supply to serve its SS and LRS loads from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals. During 2020, CL&P supplied approximately 51 percent of its customer load at SS or LRS rates while the other 49 percent of its customer load had migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  In terms of the total number of CL&P customers, this equates to 23 percent being on competitive supply, while 77 percent remain with SS or LRS. Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on CL&P's electric distribution business or its operating income.

CL&P periodically enters into full requirements contracts for SS loads for periods of up to one year. CL&P typically enters into full requirements contracts for LRS loads every three months. Currently, CL&P has full requirements contracts in place for 100 percent of its SS loads for the first half of 2021. For the second half of 2021, CL&P has 40 percent of its SS load under full requirements contracts and intends to purchase an additional 60 percent of full requirements. None of the SS load for 2022 has been procured. CL&P has full requirements contracts in place for its LRS loads through March 2021 and intends to purchase 100 percent of full requirements for the remainder of 2021.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION – MASSACHUSETTS – NSTAR ELECTRIC COMPANY

NSTAR Electric's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2020, NSTAR Electric furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 1.45 million customers in Boston and 139 cities and towns in eastern and western Massachusetts, including Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard and the greater Springfield metropolitan area, covering an aggregate area of approximately 3,200 square miles.

NSTAR Electric does not own any generating facilities that are used to supply customers, and purchases its energy requirements from competitive energy suppliers.

NSTAR Electric owns, operates and maintains a total of 70 MW of solar power facilities on twenty-two sites in Massachusetts.  NSTAR Electric will sell energy from these facilities into the ISO-NE market, with proceeds credited to customers.

Rates

NSTAR Electric is subject to regulation by the DPU, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, acquisition of securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities.  The present general rate structure for NSTAR Electric consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial and industrial services.

Under Massachusetts law, all customers of NSTAR Electric are entitled to choose their energy suppliers, while NSTAR Electric remains their electric distribution company.  NSTAR Electric purchases power from competitive suppliers on behalf of, and passes the related cost through to, its customers who do not choose a competitive energy supplier (basic service). Electric distribution companies in Massachusetts are required to obtain and resell power to retail customers through basic service for those who choose not to buy energy from a competitive energy supplier.  Most of the residential customers of NSTAR Electric have continued to buy their power from NSTAR Electric at basic service rates.  Most commercial and industrial customers have switched to a competitive energy supplier.

The Cape Light Compact, an inter-governmental organization consisting of the 21 towns and two counties on Cape Cod and Martha's Vineyard, serves 200,000 customers through the delivery of energy efficiency programs, consumer advocacy, competitive electricity supply and green power options.  NSTAR Electric continues to provide electric service to these customers including the delivery of power, maintenance of infrastructure, capital investment, meter reading, billing, and customer service.

The rates established by the DPU for NSTAR Electric are comprised of the following:

•A basic service charge that represents the collection of energy costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers, including costs related to charge-offs of uncollectible energy costs from customers.  Basic service rates are reset every six months (every three months for large commercial and industrial customers). Additionally, the DPU has authorized NSTAR Electric to recover the cost of its NSTAR Green wind contracts through the basic service charge. Basic service costs are reconciled annually, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A distribution charge, which includes a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge to collect the costs of building and expanding the distribution infrastructure to deliver electricity to its destination, as well as ongoing operating costs.

•A revenue decoupling adjustment that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the DPU of $956 million on an annualized basis for 2018, $988 million for 2019, and $1.022 billion for 2020. Annual base distribution amounts are adjusted for inflation and filed for approval by the DPU on an annual basis, until the next rate case.


4

•A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market. The transmission charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A transition charge that represents costs to be collected primarily from previously held investments in generating plants, costs related to existing above-market power contracts, and contract costs related to long-term power contract buy-outs. The transition charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A renewable energy charge that represents a legislatively-mandated charge to support the Massachusetts Renewable Energy Trust Fund.

•An energy efficiency charge that represents a legislatively-mandated charge to collect costs for energy efficiency programs. The energy efficiency charge is reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•Reconciling adjustment charges that recover certain DPU-approved costs, including pension and PBOP benefits, low income customer discounts, credits issued to net-metering facilities installed by customers, payments to solar facilities qualified under the state solar renewable energy target program, attorney general consultant expenses, long-term renewable contracts, company-owned solar facilities, vegetation management costs, credits related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, grid modernization costs, and storm restoration. These charges are reconciled annually to actual costs incurred and reviewed by the DPU, with any difference refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

NSTAR Electric has signed long-term commitments for the purchase of energy from renewable energy facilities.

Distribution Rate Case: NSTAR Electric's distribution rates were established in a 2017 DPU-approved rate case with rates effective February 1, 2018. DPU-approved inflation-based adjustments to annual base distribution amounts were effective January 1, 2019, 2020 and 2021.

Service Quality Metrics: NSTAR Electric is subject to service quality (SQ) metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service, and could be required to pay to customers a SQ charge of up to 2.5 percent of annual transmission and distribution revenues for failing to meet such metrics. NSTAR Electric will not be required to pay a SQ charge for its 2020 performance as the company achieved results at or above target for all of its SQ metrics in 2020.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

As noted above, NSTAR Electric does not own any generation assets (other than 70 MW of solar power facilities that produce energy that is sold into the ISO-NE market) and purchases its energy requirements from a variety of competitive sources through requests for proposals issued periodically, consistent with DPU regulations. NSTAR Electric enters into supply contracts for basic service for approximately 45 percent of its residential and small commercial and industrial (C&I) customers twice per year for twelve-month terms. NSTAR Electric enters into supply contracts for basic service for 18 percent of large C&I customers every three months.

During 2020, NSTAR Electric supplied approximately 42 percent of its residential customer load, 29 percent of its small C&I customer load, and 6 percent of its large C&I customer load at basic service rates. The remainder of its customer load was distributed between municipal aggregation and competitive supply. Because customer migration is limited to energy supply service, it has no impact on NSTAR Electric’s electric distribution business or operating income of NSTAR Electric.

ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION – NEW HAMPSHIRE – PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY OF NEW HAMPSHIRE

PSNH's distribution business consists primarily of the purchase, delivery and sale of electricity to its residential, commercial and industrial customers. As of December 31, 2020, PSNH furnished retail franchise electric service to approximately 528,000 retail customers in 211 cities and towns in New Hampshire, covering an area of approximately 5,630 square miles.

On January 10, 2018, PSNH completed the sale of its thermal generation assets pursuant to a 2017 purchase and sale agreement. The thermal generation facilities included approximately 1,100 MW of coal, natural gas, biomass and oil-fired electricity generation facilities. On August 26, 2018, PSNH completed the sale of its hydroelectric generation assets pursuant to a separate 2017 purchase and sale agreement. For further information, see "Generation Divestiture" below. As of December 31, 2020, PSNH does not own any electric generation facilities.

Rates

PSNH is subject to regulation by the NHPUC, which, among other things, has jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities.

Under New Hampshire law, all of PSNH's customers are entitled to choose competitive energy suppliers. During 2020, approximately 21 percent of all of PSNH's customers (approximately 53 percent of load) were taking service from competitive energy suppliers.

5

The rates established by the NHPUC for PSNH are comprised of the following:

•A default energy service charge recovers energy-related costs incurred as a result of providing electric generation service supply to all customers that have not migrated to competitive energy suppliers.

•A distribution charge, which includes kilowatt-hour and/or demand-based charges to recover costs related to the maintenance and operation of PSNH's infrastructure to deliver power to its destination, as well as power restoration and service costs.  It also includes a customer charge to collect the cost of providing service to a customer; such as the installation, maintenance, reading and replacement of meters and maintaining accounts and records.  

•A transmission charge that recovers the cost of transporting electricity over high-voltage lines from generating plants to substations, including costs allocated by ISO-NE to maintain the wholesale electric market.

•An SCRC, which allows PSNH to recover its stranded costs, including above-market expenses incurred under mandated power purchase obligations, other long-term investments and obligations, and the remaining costs associated with the 2018 sales of its generation facilities.

•An SBC, which funds energy efficiency programs for all customers, as well as assistance programs for residential customers within certain income guidelines.

•A new Regulatory Reconciliation Adjustment (RRA) that reconciles the difference between certain estimated and actual costs included in base distribution rates, including costs related to regulatory assessments, vegetation management program expenses, property tax expenses, storm cost amortization updated for the actual cost of long-term debt and lost base revenues related to net metering.

PSNH has signed long-term commitments for the purchase of energy from renewable energy facilities.

The default energy service charge and SCRC rates change semi-annually and the transmission and SBC rates change annually. These rates are reconciled annually in accordance with the policies and procedures of the NHPUC, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

Distribution Rate Case: On June 27, 2019, the NHPUC approved a settlement agreement that was reached by PSNH, the NHPUC Staff, the Office of the Consumer Advocate, and another settling party, to implement a temporary annual base distribution rate increase of $28.3 million. Although new rates were implemented on August 1, 2019 to customers, the provisions of the temporary base distribution rate increase were effective July 1, 2019. The settlement agreement also permitted PSNH to recover approximately $68.5 million in unrecovered storm costs over a five-year period beginning August 1, 2019, with debt carrying charges, which is included in the temporary rate increase.

On May 28, 2019, PSNH filed an application with the NHPUC for a permanent increase in base distribution rates of approximately $70 million, effective July 1, 2020, which included the temporary rate increase request. Temporary rates remained in effect with a reconciliation of permanent rates retroactive to July 1, 2019 once permanent rates were set.

On December 15, 2020, the NHPUC approved an October 9, 2020 settlement agreement on permanent rates between PSNH and all parties to the proceeding. The NHPUC approved a permanent rate increase of $45.0 million effective January 1, 2021, inclusive of the temporary rate increase referenced above. PSNH was also permitted three step increases, effective January 1, 2021, August 1, 2021, and August 1, 2022, to reflect plant additions in calendar years 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively. On December 23, 2020, the NHPUC approved the first step adjustment for 2019 plant in service to recover a revenue requirement of $10.6 million, subject to reconciliation after completion of an audit, effective January 1, 2021. The settlement agreement also established an authorized regulatory ROE of 9.3 percent with a 54.4 percent common equity ratio in PSNH’s capital structure and provided for a new tracker to recover regulatory assessments, vegetation management costs, property tax costs, and lost distribution revenue attributable to net metering.

Generation Divestiture

On January 10, 2018, PSNH completed the sale of its thermal generation assets. The original purchase price of $175 million was adjusted to reflect working capital adjustments, closing date adjustments and proration of taxes and fees prior to closing. As a result of these adjustments, net proceeds from the sale of the thermal assets totaled $116.8 million. On August 26, 2018, PSNH completed the sale of its hydroelectric generation assets. The original purchase price of $83 million was adjusted to reflect contractual adjustments, resulting in net proceeds of $77.2 million. The difference between the carrying value of the hydroelectric generation assets and the sale proceeds resulted in a gain of $17.3 million. An estimated gain from the sale of these assets was included as an offset to the total remaining costs associated with the sale of generation assets that were securitized on May 8, 2018.

On May 8, 2018, PSNH Funding issued $635.7 million of securitized RRBs pursuant to a finance order issued by the NHPUC on January 30, 2018 to recover remaining costs resulting from the divestiture of PSNH’s generation assets, which included the deferred costs resulting from the sale of the thermal generation assets. These RRBs are secured by a non-bypassable charge recoverable from PSNH customers. PSNH recorded regulatory assets and other deferred costs in connection with the generation asset divestiture and the securitization of remaining costs, which are probable of recovery through collection of the non-bypassable charge.

6

On May 15, 2020, the NHPUC Audit Staff issued a final report on the audit of PSNH’s generation asset divestiture-related costs and resulting securitized and stranded costs. The findings in the audit report as well as other aspects of the divestiture process were further investigated by NHPUC Staff through the discovery phase, which was completed in July 2020. On September 30, 2020, PSNH filed a settlement agreement on the generation asset divestiture-related costs with the NHPUC Audit Staff. The settlement agreement resolved all issues with respect to PSNH’s divestiture of its generating assets and the recovery of $12.0 million of divestiture-related costs incurred above the $635.7 million amount previously securitized. On December 17, 2020, the NHPUC approved the additional $12.0 million proposed in the settlement agreement to be recovered over a one-year period through the SCRC rate beginning February 1, 2021.

Sources and Availability of Electric Power Supply

PSNH does not own any generation assets and purchases energy supply from a variety of competitive suppliers for its energy service customers through requests for proposals issued twice per year, for six-month terms, for approximately 80 percent of its residential and small C&I customers and for 15 percent of its large C&I customers.

During 2020, PSNH supplied approximately 46 percent of its customer load at default energy service rates while the other 54 percent of its customer load had migrated to competitive energy suppliers.  Because this customer migration is only for energy supply service, it has no impact on PSNH’s electric distribution business or its operating income.

ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION SEGMENT

Each of CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH owns and maintains transmission facilities that are part of an interstate power transmission grid over which electricity is transmitted throughout New England.  Each of CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH, and most other New England utilities, are parties to a series of agreements that provide for coordinated planning and operation of the region's transmission facilities and the rules by which they acquire transmission services.  Under these arrangements, ISO-NE, a non-profit corporation whose board of directors and staff are independent of all market participants, serves as the regional transmission organization of the New England transmission system.  

Wholesale Transmission Rates

Wholesale transmission revenues are recovered through FERC-approved formula rates.  Annual transmission revenue requirements include recovery of transmission costs and include a return on equity applied to transmission rate base. Transmission revenues are collected from New England customers, including distribution customers of CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH.  The transmission rates provide for an annual true-up of estimated to actual costs.  The financial impacts of differences between actual and estimated costs are deferred for future recovery from, or refund to, transmission customers.

FERC ROE Complaints

Four separate complaints were filed at the FERC by combinations of New England state attorneys general, state regulatory commissions, consumer advocates, consumer groups, municipal parties and other parties (collectively the "Complainants"). In each of the first three complaints, filed on October 1, 2011, December 27, 2012, and July 31, 2014, respectively, the Complainants challenged the NETOs' base ROE of 11.14 percent that had been utilized since 2005 and sought an order to reduce it prospectively from the date of the final FERC order and for the separate 15-month complaint periods. In the fourth complaint, filed April 29, 2016, the Complainants challenged the NETOs' base ROE billed of 10.57 percent and the maximum ROE for transmission incentive (incentive cap) of 11.74 percent, asserting that these ROEs were unjust and unreasonable.

In response to appeals of the FERC decision in the first complaint filed by the NETOs and the Complainants, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (the Court) issued a decision on April 14, 2017 vacating and remanding the FERC's decision. On October 16, 2018, FERC issued an order on all four complaints describing how it intends to address the issues that were remanded by the Court. FERC proposed a new framework to determine (1) whether an existing ROE is unjust and unreasonable and, if so, (2) how to calculate a replacement ROE.

On November 21, 2019, FERC issued Opinion No. 569 affecting the two pending transmission ROE complaints against the Midcontinent ISO (MISO) transmission owners, in which FERC adopted a new methodology for determining base ROEs. Various parties sought rehearing. On December 23, 2019, the NETOs filed supplementary materials in the NETOs' four pending cases to respond to this new methodology because of the uncertainty of the applicability to the NETOs' cases. On May 21, 2020, the FERC issued its order in Opinion No. 569-A on the rehearing of the MISO transmission owners' cases, in which FERC again changed its methodology for determining the MISO transmission owners' base ROEs. Various parties appealed the MISO transmission owners' opinion. On November 19, 2020, the FERC issued Opinion No. 569-B denying rehearing of Opinion No. 569-A and reaffirmed the methodology previously adopted in Opinion No. 569-A. The new methodology differs significantly from the methodology proposed by FERC in its October 16, 2018 order to determine the NETOs' base ROEs in its four pending cases.

Given the significant uncertainty regarding the applicability of the FERC opinions in the MISO transmission owners' two complaint cases to the NETOs' pending four complaint cases, Eversource concluded that there is no reasonable basis for a change to the reserve or recognized ROEs for any of the complaint periods at this time. As well, Eversource cannot reasonably estimate a range of any gain or loss for any of the four complaint proceedings at this time.

For further information, see "FERC Regulatory Matters - FERC ROE Complaints" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
7

Transmission Projects

During 2020, we were involved in the planning, development and construction of a series of electric transmission projects that enhance system reliability and improve capacity. For more information on transmission projects, see "Business Development and Capital Expenditures – Electric Transmission Business" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Northern Pass was Eversource's planned 1,090 MW HVDC transmission line that would have interconnected from the Québec-New Hampshire border to Franklin, New Hampshire and an associated alternating current radial transmission line between Franklin and Deerfield, New Hampshire. As a result of a final decision received on July 19, 2019 from the New Hampshire Supreme Court, whereby the court denied Northern Pass’ appeal and affirmed the NHSEC’s denial of Northern Pass’ siting application on NPT, Eversource concluded that construction of NPT was no longer probable and that there was no constructive path forward for the project. In 2019, Eversource terminated the project and permanently abandoned any further development.  As a result, substantially all of the capitalized project costs, which totaled $318 million, certain of which were subject to cost reimbursement agreements, were impaired. In total, this resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of $239.6 million within Operating Income on the statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2019, and was reflected in the Electric Transmission segment. For further information, see "Critical Accounting Policies - Impairment of Northern Pass Transmission" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Transmission Rate Base

Transmission rate base under our FERC-approved tariff primarily consists of our investment in transmission net utility plant less accumulated deferred income taxes. Under our FERC-approved tariff, and with the exception of transmission projects that received specific FERC approval to include CWIP in rate base, transmission projects generally enter rate base after they are placed in commercial operation. At the end of 2020, our estimated transmission rate base was approximately $8.0 billion, including approximately $3.6 billion at CL&P, $3.1 billion at NSTAR Electric, and $1.3 billion at PSNH.

NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT

On October 9, 2020, Eversource acquired certain assets and liabilities that comprised NiSource’s natural gas distribution business in Massachusetts, which was previously doing business as CMA, pursuant to an asset purchase agreement (the Agreement) entered into on February 26, 2020 between Eversource and NiSource Inc. (NiSource). The cash purchase price was $1.1 billion, plus a target working capital amount of $69.6 million, which is subject to adjustment to reflect actual working capital as of the closing date that has not yet been finalized. Eversource financed the asset acquisition through a combination of debt and equity issuances in a ratio that was consistent with our consolidated capital structure. The natural gas distribution assets acquired from CMA were assigned to Eversource Gas Company of Massachusetts (EGMA), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Eversource formed in 2020. The LNG assets acquired from CMA were assigned to Hopkinton LNG Corp.

NSTAR Gas distributes natural gas to approximately 303,000 customers in 51 communities in central and eastern Massachusetts covering 1,067 square miles. EGMA distributes natural gas to approximately 332,000 customers in 65 communities throughout Massachusetts covering 1,206 square miles. Yankee Gas distributes natural gas to approximately 246,000 customers in 74 cities and towns in Connecticut covering 2,632 square miles. Total throughput (sales and transportation) in 2020 was approximately 66.9 Bcf for NSTAR Gas, 54.9 Bcf for EGMA, and 54.6 Bcf for Yankee Gas. Our natural gas businesses provide firm natural gas sales and transportation service to eligible retail customers who require a continuous natural gas supply throughout the year, such as residential customers who rely on natural gas for heating, hot water and cooking needs, as well as commercial and industrial customers that rely on natural gas for space heating, hot water, cooking and commercial and industrial applications.

A portion of the storage of natural gas supply for NSTAR Gas and EGMA during the winter heating season is provided by Hopkinton LNG Corp., an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Eversource Energy. NSTAR Gas has access to facilities consisting of a LNG liquefaction and vaporization plant and three above-ground cryogenic storage tanks having an aggregate capacity of 3.0 Bcf of liquefied natural gas and facilities that include additional storage capacity of 0.5 Bcf. Total vaporization capacity of these facilities is 0.21 Bcf per day. EGMA has access to approximately 1.8 Bcf of LNG and 0.2 Bcf of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) storage, with a total vaporization capacity of 0.17 Bcf per day. Yankee Gas owns a 1.2 Bcf LNG facility, which also has the ability to liquefy and vaporize up to 0.1 Bcf per day. This facility is used primarily to assist Yankee Gas in meeting its supplier-of-last-resort obligations and also enables it to provide economic supply and make economic refill of natural gas, typically during periods of low demand.

NSTAR Gas, EGMA and Yankee Gas generate revenues primarily through the sale and/or transportation of natural gas.  All NSTAR Gas and EGMA retail customers have the ability to choose to purchase gas from third party marketers under the Massachusetts Retail Choice program. In the past year in Massachusetts, Retail Choice represented only approximately one percent of the total residential load, while Retail Choice represented approximately 59 percent of the total commercial and industrial load. Retail natural gas service in Connecticut is partially unbundled: residential customers in Yankee Gas' service territory buy natural gas supply and delivery only from Yankee Gas while commercial and industrial customers may choose their natural gas suppliers. Firm transportation service is offered to customers who purchase natural gas from sources other than NSTAR Gas, EGMA or Yankee Gas.  NSTAR Gas and EGMA have the ability to offer interruptible transportation and interruptible natural gas sales service to high volume commercial and industrial customers. Yankee Gas offers interruptible transportation and interruptible natural gas sales service to commercial and industrial customers that have the ability to switch from natural gas to an alternate fuel on short notice. NSTAR Gas, EGMA and Yankee Gas can interrupt service to these customers during peak demand periods or at any other time to maintain distribution system integrity.

8

Rates

NSTAR Gas and EGMA are subject to regulation by the DPU and Yankee Gas is subject to regulation by PURA, which, among other things, have jurisdiction over rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities.

Retail natural gas delivery and supply rates are established by the DPU and the PURA and are comprised of:

•A distribution charge consisting of a fixed customer charge and a demand and/or energy charge that collects the costs of building, maintaining, and expanding the natural gas infrastructure to deliver natural gas supply to its customers.  This also includes collection of ongoing operating costs.

•A seasonal cost of gas adjustment clause (CGAC) at NSTAR Gas and EGMA that collects natural gas supply costs, pipeline and storage capacity costs, costs related to charge-offs of uncollected energy costs and working capital related costs.  The CGAC is reset semi-annually with any difference being recovered from, or refunded to, customers during the following corresponding season. In addition, NSTAR Gas and EGMA file interim changes to the CGAC factor when the actual costs of natural gas supply vary from projections by more than five percent.

•A Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clause, which is evaluated monthly and allows Yankee Gas to recover the costs of the procurement of natural gas for its firm and seasonal customers.  Differences between actual natural gas costs and collection amounts from September 1st through August 31st of each PGA year are deferred and then recovered from, or refunded to, customers during the following PGA year.  Carrying charges on outstanding balances are calculated using Yankee Gas' weighted average cost of capital in accordance with the directives of the PURA.

•A local distribution adjustment clause (LDAC) at NSTAR Gas and EGMA that collects all energy efficiency and related program costs, environmental costs, pension and PBOP related costs, attorney general consultant costs, credits related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, gas system enhancement program (GSEP) costs and costs associated with low income customers.  The LDAC is reset annually with any difference being recovered from, or refunded to, customers during the following period and provides for the recovery of certain costs applicable to both sales and transportation customers.

•A Conservation Adjustment Mechanism (CAM) at Yankee Gas, which allows 100 percent recovery of conservation costs through this mechanism including program incentives to promote energy efficiency.  A reconciliation of CAM revenues to expenses is performed annually with any difference being recovered from, or refunded to, customers with carrying charges during the following year.

•A Gas System Improvement (GSI) reconciliation mechanism at Yankee Gas, which collects the costs of certain Distribution Integrity Management Program (DIMP) and core capital plant in service above and beyond the level that is recovered through the distribution charge. The GSI is adjusted and reconciled annually, with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•A System Expansion Rate (SER) Reconciliation Mechanism at Yankee Gas, which compares distribution system expansion investment costs and revenues for new customers, with the level projected in current distribution customer rates.  This reconciliation is performed annually and customer rates are adjusted accordingly.

•A Revenue Decoupling Mechanism (RDM) at NSTAR Gas and EGMA that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the DPU in 2020. The pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement is also subject to adjustment in accordance with provisions of the November 2020 NSTAR Gas distribution rate case and the October 2020 EGMA rate settlement agreement.

•A RDM at Yankee Gas that reconciles annual base distribution rate recovery amounts recovered from customers to the pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement approved by the PURA effective January 1, 2019, January 1, 2020 and March 1, 2021. The pre-established level of baseline distribution delivery service revenue requirement is also subject to adjustment at each of these dates in accordance with provisions of the 2018 rate case settlement agreement.

NSTAR Gas purchases financial contracts based on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) natural gas futures in order to reduce cash flow variability associated with the price for approximately one-third of its normal winter season natural gas supplies.  These purchases are made under a program approved by the DPU in 2006.  This practice attempts to minimize the impact of fluctuations in natural gas prices to NSTAR Gas' firm natural gas customers.  These financial contracts do not procure natural gas supply.  All costs incurred or benefits realized when these contracts are settled are included in the CGAC.

NSTAR Gas is subject to SQ metrics that measure safety, reliability and customer service and could be required to pay to customers a SQ charge of up to 2.5 percent of annual distribution revenues for failing to meet such metrics.  NSTAR Gas will not be required to pay a SQ charge for its 2020 performance as it achieved results at or above target for all of its SQ metrics in 2020.

9

Distribution Rate Cases:
NSTAR Gas: On October 30, 2020, the DPU approved a base distribution rate increase of $23.0 million effective November 1, 2020, compared to the original request of $38.0 million. NSTAR Gas' 2019 plant additions are allowed recovery beginning on November 1, 2021.  Thus, the reduced revenue requirement reflects the removal of this recovery, among other adjustments. The DPU also approved NSTAR Gas' proposal to continue its ongoing Gas System Enhancement Program (GSEP), the inclusion of GSEP investments since 2015 into base rates, and the implementation of a 10-year performance-based ratemaking plan, which includes an inflation-based adjustment mechanism to annual base distribution rates. The decision allows an authorized regulatory ROE of 9.9 percent on a capital structure including 54.77 percent equity. The decision also approves a geothermal pilot program.

Yankee Gas: Yankee Gas distribution rates were set in a December 2018 PURA approved rate case settlement agreement, with rates effective November 15, 2018. The 2018 Yankee Gas settlement agreement required Yankee Gas to implement a GSI cost recovery mechanism to further invest capital to replace aging infrastructure. The GSI mechanism allows for recovery of costs associated with capital additions of approximately $26 million to $37 million annually, which is incremental to the $150 million included in base distribution rate base per year. The settlement agreement also provides Yankee Gas the opportunity to seek recovery of additional capital spending above these levels with PURA approval. PURA ordered an accelerated replacement program for Yankee Gas to fully replace its cast iron and bare steel facilities in 11 years and fully replace copper services and certain steel mains and services in 14 years from the date of the rate case. Yankee Gas was also authorized to continue its ongoing natural gas system expansion program, implement a revenue decoupling rate mechanism, and recover merger costs. The settlement agreement included a regulatory ROE of 9.3 percent. In addition, the distribution rates charged to customers were adjusted to reflect the prospective impacts of the lower federal corporate income tax rate, the overcollection of the lower income tax rate from January 1, 2018, and the EDIT from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Although new rates were effective January 1, 2019, the provisions of the settlement agreement took effect November 15, 2018. PURA also approved step adjustments effective January 1, 2019, January 1, 2020 and March 1, 2021.

EGMA: On October 7, 2020, the DPU approved a rate settlement agreement with Eversource, EGMA, NiSource, Bay State, the Massachusetts Attorney General's Office, the DOER and the Low-Income Weatherization and Fuel Assistance Program Network, which requested approval of the February 26, 2020 asset purchase agreement between Eversource and NiSource, as well as a rate stabilization plan, among other items. The settlement agreement included an authorized regulatory ROE of 9.70 percent as of January 1, 2021, a 53.25 percent equity component of its capital structure, and established rate base equal to $995 million as of the closing on October 9, 2020.

The approved rate stabilization plan includes base distribution rate increases of $13 million on November 1, 2021 and $10 million on November 1, 2022. The settlement agreement includes two rate base resets during an eight-year rate plan, occurring on November 1, 2024 and November 1, 2027. The two rate base resets adjust distribution rates to account for capital additions (including the roll-in of GSEP capital additions), depreciation expense, property taxes, and return on rate base for capital additions placed into service through December 31, 2023, for the first rate base reset occurring on November 1, 2024, and through December 31, 2026, for the second rate base reset occurring on November 1, 2027. Notwithstanding the two distribution rate increases, the two rate base reset provisions, and potential adjustments for qualifying exogenous events, EGMA agreed not to file for an increase or redesign of distribution base rates effective prior to November 1, 2028.

The settlement agreement also permits EGMA to seek recovery of both transaction and integration costs as a result of the asset acquisition after December 31, 2026, subject to DPU review and approval, and subject to certain conditions, such as demonstrating savings resulting from the acquisition.

Natural Gas Replacement and Expansion

Massachusetts: Pursuant to Massachusetts legislation, in October of each year, NSTAR Gas and EGMA file GSEP Plans with the DPU for the following construction year. The GSEP Program is designed to accelerate the replacement of certain natural gas distribution facilities in the system to less than 25 years.  The GSEP includes a tariff that provides NSTAR Gas and EGMA an opportunity to collect the costs for the program on an annual basis through a reconciling factor.  On April 30th each year, the DPU approves the GSEP rate recovery factor that goes into effect on May 1st.

NSTAR Gas' distribution rate case application filed on November 8, 2019 included a proposal to include GSEP additions through 2018 into base distribution rates and to continue the operation of the GSEP mechanism for GSEP investments made after 2018. In addition, the filing included a proposal for a customer connection surcharge, which would be used to reduce up-front contribution in aid of construction (CIAC) costs for customers seeking to connect to the company’s distribution system. On October 30, 2020, the DPU approved the Company’s customer connection surcharge proposal, allowing the surcharge to be implemented beginning November 1, 2021.

Connecticut: Yankee Gas' December 2018 PURA approved rate case settlement agreement included an accelerated pipeline replacement cost recovery program. The Gas System Improvement (GSI) rate recovers accelerated pipeline replacement as well as other capital investment through an annual reconciliation. The Company filed its first GSI reconciliation on March 1, 2019 for rates effective April 1, 2019 and will continue to file annually on March 1 for rates effective April 1.

In 2013, in accordance with Connecticut law and regulations, the PURA approved a comprehensive joint natural gas infrastructure expansion plan (the "Expansion Plan") filed by Yankee Gas and other Connecticut natural gas distribution companies.  In January 2015, the PURA approved a joint settlement agreement proposed by Yankee Gas and other Connecticut natural gas distribution companies and regulatory agencies that clarified the procedures and oversight criteria applicable to the Expansion Plan.  Yankee Gas received approval from PURA for its 2014 through 2019 System Expansion Reconciliations. The Company intends to file its 2020 System Expansion Reconciliation in March 2021 as required by PURA.
10


Sources and Availability of Natural Gas Supply

NSTAR Gas maintains a flexible resource portfolio consisting of natural gas supply contracts, transportation contracts on interstate pipelines, market area storage and peaking services. NSTAR Gas purchases transportation, storage, and balancing services from Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company and Algonquin Gas Transmission Company, as well as other upstream pipelines that transport natural gas from major natural gas producing regions in the U.S., including the Gulf Coast, Mid-continent region, and Appalachian Shale supplies to the final delivery points in the NSTAR Gas service area. NSTAR Gas purchases all of its natural gas supply under a firm, competitively bid annual portfolio management contract. In addition to the firm transportation and natural gas storage supplies discussed above, NSTAR Gas utilizes on-system LNG facilities to meet its winter peaking demands. These LNG facilities are located within NSTAR Gas' distribution system and are used to liquefy and store pipeline natural gas during the warmer months for vaporization and use during the heating season. During the summer injection season, excess pipeline capacity and supplies are used to deliver and store natural gas in market area underground storage facilities located in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Stored natural gas is withdrawn during the winter season to supplement flowing pipeline supplies in order to meet firm heating demand. NSTAR Gas has firm underground storage contracts and total storage capacity entitlements of approximately 6.6 Bcf, of which 3.5 Bcf LNG storage is provided by Hopkinton LNG Corp. in facilities located in two different locations in Massachusetts.

EGMA maintains a flexible resource portfolio consisting of natural gas supply contracts, transportation contracts on interstate pipelines, market area storage and peaking services. EGMA purchases transportation, storage, and balancing services from Tennessee Gas Pipeline Company and Algonquin Gas Transmission Company, as well as other upstream pipelines that transport natural gas from major natural gas producing regions in the U.S. as well as Canada, including the Gulf Coast, Mid-continent region, Appalachian Shale, and Dawn, Ontario supplies to the final delivery points in the EGMA service area. EGMA purchases the majority of its natural gas supply under a number of firm, competitively bid annual portfolio management contracts and manages a portion of its portfolio itself. In addition to the firm transportation and natural gas storage supplies discussed above, EGMA utilizes on-system LNG and LPG facilities to meet its winter peaking demands. These LNG and LPG facilities are located within EGMA’s distribution system and are used to liquefy pipeline natural gas and/or receive liquefied natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas to be stored during the warmer months for vaporization and use during the heating season. During the summer injection season, excess pipeline capacity and supplies are used to deliver and store natural gas in market area underground storage facilities located in Maryland and Pennsylvania. Stored natural gas is withdrawn during the winter season to supplement flowing pipeline supplies in order to meet firm heating demand. EGMA has firm underground storage contracts and total storage capacity entitlements of approximately 6.6 Bcf, and 2.0 Bcf LNG and LPG storage located at eight different locations in Massachusetts.

The PURA requires Yankee Gas to meet the needs of its firm customers under all weather conditions. Specifically, Yankee Gas must structure its supply portfolio to meet firm customer needs under a design day scenario (defined as the coldest day in 30 years) and under a design year scenario (defined as the average of the four coldest years in the last 30 years). Yankee Gas also maintains a flexible resource portfolio consisting of natural gas supply contracts, transportation contracts on interstate pipelines, off-system storage and its on-system 1.2 Bcf LNG storage facility in Connecticut to meet consumption needs during the coldest days of winter. Yankee Gas obtains its interstate capacity from the three interstate pipelines that directly serve Connecticut: the Algonquin, Tennessee and Iroquois Pipelines, which connect to other upstream pipelines that transport natural gas from major natural gas producing regions, including the Gulf Coast, Mid-continent, Canadian regions and Appalachian Shale supplies.

Based on information currently available regarding projected growth in demand and estimates of availability of future supplies of pipeline natural gas, each of NSTAR Gas, EGMA and Yankee Gas believes that in order to meet the long-term firm customer requirements in a reliable manner will necessitate a combination of pipeline, storage, and non-pipeline solutions.

WATER DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT
Eversource Water Ventures, Inc., a Connecticut corporation, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Eversource Aquarion Holdings, Inc. (Aquarion), operates three separate regulated water utilities in Connecticut (Aquarion Water Company of Connecticut, or AWC-CT), Massachusetts (Aquarion Water Company of Massachusetts, or AWC-MA) and New Hampshire (Aquarion Water Company of New Hampshire, or AWC-NH). These regulated companies provide water services to approximately 216,000 residential, commercial, industrial, municipal and fire protection and other customers, in 57 towns and cities in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 93 percent of Aquarion’s customers were based in Connecticut.
Rates
Aquarion's water utilities are subject to regulation by the PURA, the DPU and the NHPUC in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire, respectively. These regulatory agencies have jurisdiction over, among other things, rates, certain dispositions of property and plant, mergers and consolidations, issuances of long-term securities, standards of service and construction and operation of facilities.
Aquarion’s general rate structure consists of various rate and service classifications covering residential, commercial, industrial, and municipal and fire protection services.
11

The rates established by the PURA, DPU and NHPUC are comprised of the following:
•A base rate, which is comprised of fixed charges based on meter/fire connection sizes, as well as volumetric charges based on the amount of water sold. Together these charges are designed to recover the full cost of service resulting from a general rate proceeding.

•In Connecticut, a revenue adjustment mechanism (RAM) that reconciles earned revenues, with certain allowed adjustments, on an annual basis, to the revenue requirement approved by the PURA in AWC-CT’s last rate case (2013), which is an annual amount of $178.0 million.

•In Connecticut and New Hampshire, a water infrastructure conservation adjustment (WICA) charge, and in Massachusetts, an annual main replacement adjustment mechanism (MRAM) charge, which is applied between rate case proceedings and seeks recovery of allowed costs associated with eligible infrastructure improvement projects placed in-service. The WICA is updated semi-annually in Connecticut and annually in New Hampshire. In Connecticut, an annual WICA reconciliation mechanism reconciles earned WICA revenue to the approved WICA revenue with any differences refunded to, or recovered from, customers.

•In Massachusetts, treatment plant surcharges, which are a series of three surcharges (one fixed and two volumetric in nature) that are designed to recover certain operating costs and the costs of the lease of the treatment plant located in Hingham.  These surcharges were applicable only to customers in Hingham, Hull and Cohasset. On July 31, 2020, we sold our water system and treatment plant that supplies water to the towns of Hingham, Hull and North Cohasset to the town of Hingham, Massachusetts. For further information, see "Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters - Massachusetts - Sale of Water System" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

Sources and Availability of Water Supply
Our water utilities obtain their water supplies from owned surface water sources (reservoirs) and groundwater supplies (wells) with a total supply yield of approximately 118 million gallons per day, as well as water purchased from other water suppliers. Approximately 99 percent of our annual production is self-supplied and processed at nine surface water treatment plants and numerous well stations, which are all located in Connecticut, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire.
The capacities of Aquarion’s sources of supply, and water treatment, pumping and distribution facilities, are considered sufficient to meet the present requirements of Aquarion’s customers under normal conditions. On occasion, drought declarations are issued for portions of Aquarion’s service territories in response to extended periods of dry weather conditions.

OFFSHORE WIND PROJECTS

Eversource's offshore wind business includes ownership interests in North East Offshore and Bay State Wind, which together hold power purchase agreements (PPAs) and contracts for the Revolution Wind, South Fork Wind and Sunrise Wind projects, as well as offshore leases through BOEM. Our offshore wind projects are being developed and constructed through a joint and equal partnership with Ørsted. This partnership also participates in new procurement opportunities for offshore wind energy in the Northeast U.S.

Eversource has a 50 percent ownership interest in North East Offshore, which holds the Revolution Wind and South Fork Wind projects, as well as a 257 square-mile ocean lease off the coasts of Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Eversource also has a 50 percent ownership interest in Bay State Wind, which holds the Sunrise Wind project. Bay State Wind's separate 300-square-mile ocean lease is located approximately 25 miles south of the coast of Massachusetts adjacent to the North East Offshore area. In aggregate, the Bay State Wind and the North East Offshore ocean lease sites jointly-owned by Eversource and Ørsted could eventually develop at least 4,000 MW of clean, renewable offshore wind energy.

Revolution Wind is a 704 MW offshore wind power project located approximately 15 miles south of the Rhode Island coast, and South Fork Wind is a 130 MW offshore wind power project located approximately 35 miles east of Long Island. Sunrise Wind is an 880 MW offshore wind facility, which will be developed 35 miles east of Montauk Point, Long Island. The completion dates for these projects are subject to federal permitting through BOEM, and engineering, state siting and permitting in New York and Rhode Island. For more information on these projects, see "Business Development and Capital Expenditures – Offshore Wind Business" in the accompanying Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

PROJECTED CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

We project to make capital expenditures of $17.03 billion from 2021 through 2025, of which we expect $10.90 billion to be in our electric and natural gas distribution segments, $4.31 billion to be in our electric transmission segment and $0.78 billion to be in our water distribution segment. We also project to invest $1.05 billion in information technology and facilities upgrades and enhancements. These projections do not include any expected investments related to our offshore wind partnership.

FINANCING

Our credit facilities and indentures require that Eversource parent and certain of its subsidiaries, including CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH, NSTAR Gas, EGMA, Yankee Gas, and Aquarion Water Company of Connecticut, comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants as are customarily included in such agreements, including maintaining a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization of no more than 65 percent. All of these companies currently are, and expect to remain, in compliance with these covenants.  

12

As of December 31, 2020, $1.02 billion of Eversource's long-term debt, including $450.0 million, $250.0 million, $282.0 million, and $40.2 million for Eversource parent, NSTAR Electric, PSNH, and Aquarion, respectively, will mature within the next 12 months.

NUCLEAR FUEL STORAGE

CL&P, NSTAR Electric, PSNH, and several other New England electric utilities are stockholders in three inactive regional nuclear generation companies, CYAPC, MYAPC and YAEC (collectively, the Yankee Companies).  The Yankee Companies have completed the physical decommissioning of their respective nuclear power facilities and are now engaged in the long-term storage of their spent nuclear fuel.  The Yankee Companies fund these costs through litigation proceeds received from the DOE and, to the extent necessary, through wholesale, FERC-approved rates charged under power purchase agreements with several New England utilities, including CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH. CL&P, NSTAR Electric and PSNH, in turn recover these costs from their customers through state regulatory commission-approved retail rates. The Yankee Companies collect amounts that we believe are adequate to recover the remaining plant closure and fuel storage cost estimates for the respective plants. We believe CL&P and NSTAR Electric will recover their shares of these obligations from their customers. PSNH has recovered its total share of these costs from its customers.

We consolidate the assets and obligations of CYAPC and YAEC on our consolidated balance sheet because our ownership and voting interests are greater than 50 percent of each of these companies.  

OTHER REGULATORY AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

General

We are regulated by various federal and state agencies, including FERC, the SEC, and various state and/or local regulatory authorities with jurisdiction over the industry and the service areas in which each of our companies operates, including the PURA, which has jurisdiction over CL&P, Yankee Gas, and Aquarion, the DPU, which has jurisdiction over NSTAR Electric, NSTAR Gas, EGMA and Aquarion, and the NHPUC, which has jurisdiction over PSNH and Aquarion.

Environmental Regulation

We are subject to various federal, state and local requirements with respect to water quality, air quality, toxic substances, hazardous waste and other environmental matters.  Additionally, major generation and transmission facilities may not be constructed or significantly modified without a review of the environmental impact of the proposed construction or modification by the applicable federal or state agencies.  

Renewable Portfolio Standards

Each of the states in which we do business also has Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) requirements, which generally require fixed percentages of our energy supply to come from renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, hydropower, landfill gas, fuel cells and other similar sources.

Connecticut's RPS statute requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources. In 2020, the total RPS obligation was 29 percent and will ultimately reach 48 percent in 2030. CL&P is permitted to recover any costs incurred in complying with RPS from its customers through its GSC rate.

Massachusetts' RPS program requires electricity suppliers to meet renewable energy standards. For 2020, the requirement was 27.71 percent, and will ultimately reach 39.31 percent in 2025. NSTAR Electric is permitted to recover any costs incurred in complying with RPS from its customers through rates. NSTAR Electric also owns renewable solar power facilities. The RECs generated from NSTAR Electric's solar power facilities are sold to other energy suppliers, and the proceeds from these sales are credited back to customers.

New Hampshire's RPS provision requires increasing percentages of the electricity sold to retail customers to have direct ties to renewable sources. In 2020, the total RPS obligation was 21.7 percent and it will ultimately reach 25.2 percent in 2025. The costs of the RECs are recovered by PSNH through rates charged to customers.

Hazardous Materials Regulations

We have recorded a liability for what we believe, based upon currently available information, is our reasonably estimable environmental investigation, remediation, and/or Natural Resource Damages costs for waste disposal sites for which we have probable liability. Under federal and state law, government agencies and private parties can attempt to impose liability on us for recovery of investigation and remediation costs at hazardous waste sites. As of December 31, 2020, the liability recorded for our reasonably estimable and probable environmental remediation costs for known sites needing investigation and/or remediation, exclusive of recoveries from insurance or from third parties, was $102.4 million, representing 63 sites. These costs could be significantly higher if additional remediation becomes necessary or when additional information as to the extent of contamination becomes available.

The most significant liabilities currently relate to future clean-up costs at former MGP facilities. These facilities were owned and operated by our predecessor companies from the mid-1800's to mid-1900's. By-products from the manufacture of natural gas using coal resulted in fuel oils, hydrocarbons, coal tar, purifier wastes, metals and other waste products that may pose a potential risk to human health and the environment. We currently have partial or full ownership responsibilities at former MGP sites that have a reserve balance of $92.2 million of the total $102.4 million as of December 31, 2020. MGP costs are recoverable through rates charged to our customers.
13


Electric and Magnetic Fields  

For more than twenty years, published reports have discussed the possibility of adverse health effects from electric and magnetic fields (EMF) associated with electric transmission and distribution facilities and appliances and wiring in buildings and homes.  Although weak health risk associations reported in some epidemiology studies remain unexplained, most researchers, as well as numerous scientific review panels, considering all significant EMF epidemiology and laboratory studies, have concluded that the available body of scientific information does not support the conclusion that EMF affects human health.

In accordance with recommendations of various regulatory bodies and public health organizations, we reduce EMF associated with new transmission lines by the use of designs that can be implemented without additional cost or at a modest cost.  We do not believe that other capital expenditures are appropriate to minimize unsubstantiated risks.

Global Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas Emission Issues

Global climate change and greenhouse gas emission issues have received an increased focus from state governments and the federal government. The EPA initiated a rulemaking addressing greenhouse gas emissions and, in 2009, issued a finding that concluded that greenhouse gas emissions are "air pollution" that endangers public health and welfare and should be regulated.  The EPA has mandated greenhouse gas emission reporting beginning in 2011 for emissions for certain aspects of our business including volume of gas supplied to large customers and fugitive emissions of SF6 gas and methane.

We are continually evaluating the regulatory risks and regulatory uncertainty presented by climate change concerns.  Such concerns could potentially lead to additional rules and regulations that impact how we operate our general utility business.  These could include federal "cap and trade" laws, carbon taxes, and fuel and energy taxes.  We expect that any costs of these rules and regulations would be recovered from customers.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

For information about Eversource Energy's executive officers, see Item 10, Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

HUMAN CAPITAL

Eversource is committed to delivering reliable energy and superior customer service; expanding energy options for our region; environmental stewardship; a safe, diverse and fairly-compensated workforce; and community service and leadership. Our employees are critical to achieving this mission and we recognize the importance of retention, growth and development of our employees. Leaders at all levels strive to create a workplace where our employees are engaged, advocate for the customer, work collaboratively, raise ideas for improvement and focus on delivering a superior customer experience. We build employee engagement through continuous communication, developing talent, fostering teamwork and creating a diverse, inclusive workplace.

As of December 31, 2020, Eversource Energy employed a total of 9,299 employees, excluding temporary employees, of which 1,381 were employed by CL&P, 1,611 were employed by NSTAR Electric, and 745 were employed by PSNH. In addition, 3,373 were employed by Eversource Service, Eversource's service company, that provides support services to all Eversource operating companies. Approximately 50 percent of our employees are members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Utility Workers Union of America or The United Steelworkers, and are covered by 14 collective bargaining agreements.

Safety. At Eversource, our commitment to “Safety First and Always” is a principle and a mindset present in every job and every task, whether in the field, office or at home. A priority at Eversource is continuous improvement and safety is at the forefront as we continue to build a strong safety culture, embrace new technologies, and learn with our industry and community partners to improve safety performance. We use metrics such as Eversource Corporate Days Away Restricted Time (DART) and Preventable Motor Vehicle events, among others, to monitor safety performance. Our DART safety performance was 0.7 in 2020, measured by days away, restricted or transferred per 100 workers.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented our company-wide pandemic plan, which resulted in no employees losing their jobs due to the pandemic, and significant changes put in place that were in the best interest of our employees, customers, and communities. This included having nearly half of our employees working remotely, while implementing additional significant safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work. For our employees performing essential functions that are required onsite, such as field crews and system operations, we have taken significant safety measures, including establishing social distancing measures, the use of personal protective equipment, increasing facility sanitization efforts, and enabling critical operations to be shifted to different control center locations if necessary. We continue to prepare for the re-entry of our employees working remotely. The plan is informed by public health guidance with the safety of our employees and customers as our highest priority. We are in the early phase of our re-entry plan and have returned fewer than 100 remote employees to the workplace. We have had increased short duration return to work for critical business needs, such as storm response and essential training. State and federal guidelines, external conditions, and critical business priorities continue to inform the pace of our re-entry plan. Significant health and safety measures and pandemic protocols will remain in place, including social distancing requirements, the use of personal protective equipment, sanitization efforts and employee training, for all employees currently working onsite and specific plans have been developed for our eventual re-entry to the workplace.

14

Diversity & Inclusion. Our commitment to Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) is critical to building a diverse, empowered and engaged team that delivers great service safely to our customers. A diverse workforce and inclusive culture contribute to our success and sustainability by driving innovation and creating trusted relationships with our employees, customers, suppliers and community partners. Our hiring practices emphasize diversity and we encourage employees to embrace different people, perspectives and experiences in our workplace and within our communities. Additionally, our leadership behaviors underscore the importance of creating inclusive teams, where employees’ voices and contributions are essential to delivering superior customer service.

Eversource’s executive leadership team promotes and supports D&I by building diverse, inclusive work teams with high engagement, growing a pipeline of diverse talent, leveraging multiple perspectives to improve customer service, using diverse suppliers, engaging with multicultural organizations in our communities and supporting the work of the D&I council and business resource groups. Eversource continues to work toward a diverse workforce with a focus on women and minorities in leadership and has D&I goals and initiatives for diversity in leadership promotions and new hires, diverse external hires, diverse candidate slate, key talent, workforce representation, community and suppliers. Eversource drives accountability for D&I progress throughout the company and executive compensation is linked to meeting our D&I goals. In 2020, 47.6 percent of new hires and promotions into leadership roles were women or people of color.

Eversource's Board of Trustees is committed to diversity and inclusion and receives regular monthly progress updates. The Corporate Governance Committee and the Board of Trustees seek diversity in gender, ethnicity and personal background when considering Trustee candidates. Our Board of Trustees has been recognized as one of the most diverse in our industry.

Compensation, Health and Wellness Benefits. We are committed to the health, safety and wellness of our employees. We provide competitive compensation and comprehensive benefit packages, including healthcare, life insurance, long-term disability insurance, death benefits, retirement plans (defined benefit pension plans or 401k Plan), an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, employee assistance programs, and tuition assistance, among many others. Eversource also provides wellness programs and benefits to encourage employees and their families to adopt and maintain healthy lifestyle habits.

Talent Development, Training Programs and Education Opportunities. Eversource supports and develops its employees through training and development programs that build and strengthen employees’ leadership and skill set. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have pivoted, and are providing employees with a variety of virtual classroom training opportunities. Continuous professional development is important to support our employees’ ongoing success. These professional development programs include leadership effectiveness programs designed to develop new and current supervisors; a talent management process to identify high potential and emerging talent and ensure their development; a rotational associate engineering program; educational and professional development opportunities for employees who are recent college graduates; tuition assistance program; and paid internships and co-ops.

Strategic workforce plans are developed every year as part of the annual business planning process to identify long-range needs to ensure that we acquire, develop and retain diverse, capable talent. This includes leveraging educational partnerships in critical craft and technical areas and developing proactive sourcing strategies to attract experienced professionals in highly technical roles in engineering, electric and gas operations, and energy efficiency. As part of this process, we identify critical roles and develop succession plans to ensure we have a capable supply of talent for the future.

Over 800 new Eversource Gas Company of Massachusetts employees (formerly Columbia Gas of Massachusetts employees) were welcomed and successfully onboarded in 2020. All Columbia Gas of Massachusetts employees who wanted to continue employment with Eversource were offered jobs.

Community & Social Impact. Eversource and our employees support many programs, agencies, and not-for-profit organizations that support economic and community development, the environment, and initiatives that address local, high-priority concerns and needs. Eversource provides donations and other support to community agencies, including significant volunteer hours of our employees.

See Item 11, Executive Compensation, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the “Our People” section of our 2019 Sustainability Report located on our website, for more detailed information regarding our human capital programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website, including our Sustainability Report or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

INTERNET INFORMATION

Our website address is www.eversource.com.  We make available through our website a link to the SEC's EDGAR website (http://www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html), at which site Eversource's, CL&P's, NSTAR Electric's and PSNH's combined Annual Reports on Form 10-K, combined Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports may be reviewed. Information contained on the Company's website or that can be accessed through the website is not incorporated into and does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Printed copies of these reports may be obtained free of charge by writing to our Investor Relations Department at Eversource Energy, 107 Selden Street, Berlin, CT 06037.  