Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex"), a Maryland corporation, is an S&P 500 company that operates as a self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Essex owns all of its interest in its real estate and other investments directly or indirectly through Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership" or "EPLP"). Essex is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership and as of December 31, 2020, had an approximately 96.6% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership. In this report, the terms the "Company," "we," "us," and "our" also refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc., the Operating Partnership and those entities/subsidiaries owned or controlled by Essex and/or the Operating Partnership.

Essex has elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31, 1994. Essex completed its initial public offering on June 13, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the Company utilizes taxable REIT subsidiaries for various revenue generating or investment activities. All taxable REIT subsidiaries are consolidated by the Company for financial reporting purposes.

The Company is engaged primarily in the ownership, operation, management, acquisition, development and redevelopment of predominantly apartment communities, located along the West Coast of the United States. As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned or had ownership interests in 246 operating apartment communities, aggregating 60,272 apartment homes, excluding the Company's ownership in preferred equity co-investments, loan investments, one operating commercial building, and a development pipeline comprised of three consolidated projects and three unconsolidated joint venture projects aggregating 1,853 apartment homes (collectively, the "Portfolio").

The Company’s website address is http://www.essex.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders are available, free of charge, on its website as soon as practicable after the Company files the reports with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on the Company's website shall not be deemed to be incorporated into this report.

BUSINESS STRATEGIES

The following is a discussion of the Company’s business strategies in regards to real estate investment and management.

Business Strategies

Research Driven Approach to Investments – The Company believes that successful real estate investment decisions and portfolio growth begin with extensive regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company continually assesses markets where the Company operates, as well as markets where the Company considers future investment opportunities by evaluating markets and focusing on the following strategic criteria:

•Major metropolitan areas that have regional population in excess of one million;
•Constraints on new supply driven by: (i) low availability of developable land sites where competing housing could be economically built; (ii) political growth barriers, such as protected land, urban growth boundaries, and potential lengthy and expensive development permit processes; and (iii) natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways;
•Rental demand enhanced by affordability of rents relative to costs of for-sale housing; and
•Housing demand based on job growth, proximity to jobs, high median incomes and the quality of life including related commuting factors.

Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company regularly evaluates the results of its regional economic, and local market research, and adjusts the geographic focus of its portfolio accordingly. The Company seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets projected to have the strongest local economies and to decrease allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions. Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.

Property Operations – The Company manages its communities by focusing on activities that may generate above-average rental growth, tenant retention/satisfaction and long-term asset appreciation.  The Company intends to achieve this by utilizing the strategies set forth below:

3
Table of Contents
•Property Management – Oversee delivery and quality of the housing provided to our tenants and manage the properties financial performance.
•Capital Preservation – The Company's asset management services are responsible for the planning, budgeting and completion of major capital improvement projects at the Company’s communities.
•Business Planning and Control – Comprehensive business plans are implemented in conjunction with significant investment decisions. These plans include benchmarks for future financial performance based on collaborative discussions between on-site managers, the operations leadership team, and senior management.
•Development and Redevelopment – The Company focuses on acquiring and developing apartment communities in supply constrained markets, and redeveloping its existing communities to improve the financial and physical aspects of the Company’s communities.

CURRENT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

Acquisitions of Real Estate Interests

Acquisitions are an important component of the Company’s business plan. The table below summarizes acquisition activity for the year ended December 31, 2020 ($ in millions):

Property Name		Location		Apartment Homes		Essex Ownership Percentage		Ownership		Quarter in 2020		Purchase Price	
CPPIB Portfolio(1)
Various		2,020 			100 	%		EPLP		Q1		$	463.4 														Total 2020		2,020 			 		 		 		$	463.4 	 

(1)In January 2020, the Company purchased the joint venture partner's 45% membership interest in a land parcel and six communities representing 2,020 apartment homes based on a total valuation of approximately $1.0 billion.


Dispositions of Real Estate

As part of its strategic plan to own quality real estate in supply-constrained markets, the Company continually evaluates all of its communities and sells those which no longer meet its strategic criteria. The Company may use the capital generated from the dispositions to invest in higher-return communities or other real estate investments, or to repay debts. The Company believes that the sale of these communities will not have a material impact on its future results of operations or cash flows nor will their sale materially affect its ongoing operations. In general, the Company seeks to offset the dilutive impact on long-term earnings and funds from operations from these dispositions through the positive impact of reinvestment of proceeds.

In June 2020, the Company completed a portfolio sale which consisted of two apartment communities with 429 apartment homes, One South Market and Museum Park, both located in San Jose, CA, for a total contract price of $232.0 million, resulting in a gain of $16.6 million for the Company.

In July 2020, the Company sold Delano, a 126 apartment home community located in Redmond, WA, for a total contract price of $51.5 million. The Company recognized a $22.7 million gain on sale.

In October 2020, the Company sold 416 on Broadway, a 115 apartment home community located in Glendale, CA, for a total contract price of $60.0 million. The Company recognized a $25.7 million gain on sale.


Development Pipeline

The Company defines development projects as new communities that are being constructed, or are newly constructed and are in a phase of lease-up and have not yet reached stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2020, the Company's development pipeline was comprised of three consolidated projects under development and three unconsolidated joint venture projects under development aggregating 1,853 apartment homes, with total incurred costs of $948.0 million, and estimated remaining project costs of approximately $174.0 million, $118.0 million of which represents the Company's estimated remaining costs, for total estimated project costs of $1.1 billion.
4
Table of Contents

The Company defines predevelopment projects as proposed communities in negotiation or in the entitlement process with an expected high likelihood of becoming entitled development projects. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had various consolidated predevelopment projects. The Company may also acquire land for future development purposes or sale.

The following table sets forth information regarding the Company’s development pipeline ($ in millions):

 		  						As of									12/31/2020	 		  		Essex		Estimated		Incurred		Estimated	Development Pipeline		Location		Ownership%		Apartment Homes		
Project Cost (1)
Project Cost(1)
Development Projects - Consolidated		 								Station Park Green - Phase IV		San Mateo, CA		100%		107 			66 			94 		Mylo		Santa Clara, CA		100%		476 			213 			226 		
Wallace on Sunset (2)
Hollywood, CA		100%		200 			97 			116 		Total Development Projects - Consolidated		 		 		783 			376 			436 		Development Projects - Joint Venture		 		 		 		 		 	Patina at Midtown		San Jose, CA		50%		269 			135 			148 		
500 Folsom (3)
San Francisco, CA		50%		537 			400 			415 		
Scripps Mesa Apartments (3)
San Diego, CA		51%		264 			16 			102 		Total Development Projects - Joint Venture		 		 		1,070 			551 			665 		Predevelopment Projects - Consolidated		 		 		 		 		 	Other Projects		Various		100%		— 			21 			21 		Total - Consolidated Predevelopment Projects		 		 		— 			21 			21 	Grand Total - Development and Predevelopment Pipeline		 		 		1,853 			$	948 			$	1,122 	 

(1)Includes costs related to the entire project, including both the Company's and joint venture partners' costs. Includes incurred costs and estimated costs to complete these development projects. For predevelopment projects, only incurred costs are included in estimated costs.
(2)Incurred and estimated project costs for this development is net of cost incurred on the adjacent theatre at the property.
(3)Estimated project cost for this development is net of a projected value for low-income housing tax credit proceeds and the value of the tax exempt bond structure.

Redevelopment Pipeline

The Company defines redevelopment communities as existing properties owned or recently acquired, which have been targeted for additional investment by the Company with the expectation of increased financial returns through property improvement.  During redevelopment, apartment homes may not be available for rent and, as a result, the related apartment community may have less than stabilized operations. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had ownership interests in three major redevelopment communities aggregating 1,112 apartment homes with estimated redevelopment costs of $109.1 million, of which approximately $4.5 million remains to be expended.

Long Term Debt

During 2020, the Company made regularly scheduled principal payments and loan payoffs of $316.2 million to its secured mortgage notes payable at an average interest rate of 4.4%.

In February 2020, the Operating Partnership issued $500.0 million of senior unsecured notes due on March 15, 2032, with a coupon rate of 2.650% (the "2032 Notes"), which are payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2020. The 2032 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.628% of par value. The 2032 Notes are general
5
Table of Contents
unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay indebtedness under its unsecured lines of credit, which had been used to fund the buyout of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board's ("CPPIB" or "CPP") 45.0% joint venture interests, as well as repay $100.3 million of secured debt during the quarter that ended March 31, 2020. In June 2020, the Operating Partnership issued an additional $150.0 million of the 2032 Notes at a price of 105.660% of par value, plus accrued interest from February 2020 up to, but not including, the date of delivery of the additional notes, with an effective yield of 2.093%. These additional notes have substantially identical terms as the 2032 Notes issued in February 2020. The proceeds were used to repay indebtedness under the Company's unsecured credit facilities and for other general corporate and working capital purposes.

In April 2020, the Company obtained a $200.0 million unsecured term loan with a one-year maturity and two 12-month extension options, exercisable at the Company’s option. The unsecured term loan bears a variable interest rate of the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 1.20% and the proceeds were used to repay all remaining consolidated debt maturing in 2020.

In August 2020, the Operating Partnership issued $600.0 million of senior unsecured notes, consisting of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount due on January 15, 2031 with a coupon rate of 1.650% (the “2031 Notes”) and $300.0 million aggregate principal amount due on September 1, 2050 with a coupon rate of 2.650% (the “2050 Notes” and together with the 2031 Notes, the “Notes”). The 2031 Notes were offered to investors at a price of 99.035% of par value and the 2050 Notes at 99.691% of par value. Interest is payable on the 2031 Notes semiannually on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2021. Interest is payable on the 2050 Notes semiannually on March 1 and September 1 of each year, beginning on March 1, 2021. The Notes are general unsecured senior obligations of the Operating Partnership, rank equally in right of payment with all other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Operating Partnership and are unconditionally guaranteed by Essex. The Company used the net proceeds of this offering to repay debt maturities, including certain unsecured private placement notes, secured mortgage notes, and to fund the redemption of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of
its outstanding 3.625% senior unsecured notes due August 2022, and for other general corporate and working capital purposes.

Bank Debt

As of December 31, 2020, Moody’s Investor Service and Standard and Poor's ("S&P") credit agencies rated Essex Property Trust, Inc. and Essex Portfolio, L.P. Baa1/Stable and BBB+/Stable, respectively.

At December 31, 2020, the Company had two unsecured lines of credit aggregating $1.24 billion. The Company's $1.2 billion credit facility had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.825%, with a scheduled maturity date in December 2023 with one 18-month extension, exercisable at the Company's option. The Company's $35.0 million working capital unsecured line of credit had an interest rate of LIBOR plus 0.825%, with a scheduled maturity date in February 2023.

Equity Transactions

During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company did not issue any shares of common stock through its equity distribution program. As of December 31, 2020, there were no outstanding forward sale agreements, and $826.6 million of shares remain available to be sold under this program.

During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company repurchased and retired 1,197,190 shares totaling $269.3 million, including commissions. In each of May and December 2020, the board of directors approved the replenishment of the stock repurchase plan such that, as of each of those dates, the Company had $250.0 million of purchase authority remaining under the replenished plan. As a result, as of December 31, 2020, the Company had $223.6 million of purchase authority remaining under its $250.0 million stock repurchase plan.

Co-investments

The Company has entered into, and may continue in the future to enter into, joint ventures or partnerships (including limited liability companies) through which we own an indirect economic interest in less than 100% of the community or land or other investments owned directly by the joint venture or partnership. For each joint venture the Company holds a non-controlling interest in the venture and earns customary management fees and may earn development fees, asset property management fees, and a promote interest.

The Company has also made, and may continue in the future to make, preferred equity investments in various multifamily development projects. The Company earns a preferred rate of return on these investments.
6
Table of Contents
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Company Overview and Values

The Company is headquartered in San Mateo, CA, and has regional offices in Woodland Hills, CA; Irvine, CA; San Diego, CA and Bellevue, WA. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had 1,799 employees, ninety-eight percent (98%) of which were full-time employees, and of which 1,483 employees worked in operations and 316 were employed in the corporate offices. The Company's mission is to create quality communities in premier locations and it is critical to the Company's mission that it attracts, trains and retains a talented and diverse team by providing a better place to work and significant opportunities for professional growth. The Company's culture supports its mission and is guided by its core values: to act with integrity, to care about what matters, to do right with urgency, to lead at every level and to seek fairness. The Company seeks to reinforce those values within its workforce.

Workplace Diversity

The Company undertakes a wide spectrum of initiatives to support a diverse workforce particularly in regards to ethnic, gender and age diversity as well as fair treatment of all our associates. The Company has one of the most diverse workforces among its peers in the real estate industry. As of December 31, 2020, the Company's workforce was approximately 44% Hispanic or Latino, 29% White, 12% Asian, 7% Black or African American, 1% Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, 1% American Indian or Alaska Native, and 6% two or more races. As of December 31, 2020, the Company's workforce was 42% female and 58% male, of which corporate associates were 54% female and on-site operational associates were 40% female. The Company had 365 females in positions of manager or higher, representing 67% of managerial positions. The tables below detail the gender representation by position in the Company and the age diversity of its workforce.

The Company recently implemented additional training programs as well as employee committees to strengthen and further promote diversity, equal opportunity, and fair treatment for all Company associates. In 2019, the Company formed the Diversity and Inclusion Committee, whose chairperson reports directly to the CEO on the Committee’s activities, and further expanded the initiatives and members in 2020. In 2020 the Company formed Women at Essex, an employee-led affinity group, fostering a sense of community and inclusion for a diverse mix of women and men at the Company through discussions and activities that are intended to engage, educate, enable, and empower the Company's employees. All associates are offered training aimed at preventing workplace harassment, including harassment based on age, gender or ethnicity. In 2020, the Company provided 2,850 hours of training covering the foundations of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and awareness of unconscious bias in the workplace. Additionally, the Company implemented Diversity, Equity & Inclusion listening sessions where associates were invited to engage with one another through sharing personal and professional experiences involving diversity, equity, and inclusion, fostering a more positive and inclusive environment throughout the Company.

The Company is committed to pay equity and conducts a pay equity analysis on an annual basis. The Company's pay equity analysis for 2020 indicated a zero percent (0%) pay gap between men and women.

The Company was awarded the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts’ (“NAREIT"), which is the leading REIT industry association, Diversity and Inclusion Corporate Recognition Award for 2020. This annual recognition is designed to recognize strong commitments and outstanding contributions to the advancement of diversity and inclusion within our Company, our professional network, and in the REIT community

Gender Representation by Position		2020		Male #		Female #		Male %		Female %	Corporate - Top Executives, VPs, Assistant VPs, Directors, & Managers		63		65		49%		51%	Corporate - Below manager position		82		106		44%		56%	Field - Regional Directors/Managers, Community Managers and Assistant Managers		114		299		28%		72%	Field - Leasing Specialists, Leasing Managers, Relationship Reps, Bookkeepers		109		191		36%		64%	Field - Maintenance Supervisors and Techs		562		10		98%		2%	Field - Porter, Landscaper, Painter, Security Guard, Amenities Attendant		110		88		56%		44% 

7
Table of Contents

Total Workforce by
Age Group
2020
#
%
<= 25
180
10%
26-35
544
30%
36-45
426
24%
46-55
375
21%
56-65
232
13%
> 65
42
2%
 

Training and Development

The Company values leadership at every level and demonstrates such value with respect to its associates by providing opportunities for all associates to develop personal and professional skills and by offering programs to encourage employee retention and advancement. In 2020, over 50,000 hours of training and development programs were provided to associates, with our investment in training totaling almost $400,000. These programs include: leadership training, communication training, individual learning plans, Community Manager and Maintenance Manager training, The Berkeley Executive Leadership Program, and mentorship programs. Since its introduction in 2018, over 1,500 on-site associates have participated in our Steps to Success career development program, a learning program that supports associates with their career growth by providing the fundamental knowledge required for success in a particular specialty. Additionally, the Company provides its associates with outside educational benefits by offering an annual $3,000 tuition reimbursement to further support professional growth. To identify, retain and reward top performers, the Company offers a tenure program, which involves a cash gift for every five years of service, as well as excellence awards and a spot bonus recognition program to reward associates for good teamwork, good ideas and good service. The Company encourages internal promotions and hiring for open positions. In 2020, the Company promoted 10% of its employees to higher positions in the Company. Additionally, the Company engages in succession planning for its leadership and managerial positions and its executive team identifies and mentors the Company's top talent in order to ensure strong leadership at the Company for the future.

Employee Well-Being

The Company's compensation and benefits program and safety practices further reinforce its commitment to investing in the well-being of its associates while ensuring that its employees are fairly incentivized to ensure fulfillment of the Company’s mission. The Company offers competitive compensation and a standard suite of benefits, including health insurance, a retirement plan with a $6,000 annual matching benefit, life and disability coverage, and commuter benefits. Additionally, the Company offers a housing discount for associates that live at Company communities, and additionally offers retirement support, associate discount programs, and health benefit credits for participation in wellness programs. The Company engages in an annual compensation study to ensure that its compensation is aligned with market standards and that the Company is appropriately compensating its top performers. In 2019, the Company accomplished its goal of raising the minimum wage for all associates to $15 per hour.

Providing a safe working environment and ensuring employee safety is imperative to the Company. The Company has safety policies in place that coincide with an Injury & Illness Prevention Program, which seeks to prevent workplace accidents and protect the health and safety of the Company's associates. In 2020, the Company provided safety training to Community Managers, Maintenance Supervisors, and Maintenance Technicians on topics including Industrial Safety and Health, Confined Space Awareness, Electrical Safety and Protection, Active Shooter Event, Fire Extinguishing, Safety Data Sheets, Safe Lifting the E-Way, Ladder Safety, and Heat Stress in the Workplace.

As an essential business operating in 2020, the Company's on-site teams supported its residents by providing administrative, operational and maintenance assistance during the COVID-19 pandemic. In order to best protect and support the Company's associates working on-site, the Company spent over $4.1 million on new COVID-19 related protocols and other costs. The Company undertook various COVID-19 safety measures, including implementing work from home where possible, purchasing personal protective equipment and establishing physical distancing and other health safety procedures for its on-site employees, providing paid leave to employees affected by COVID-19, increasing cleaning protocols at its sites and offices, prohibiting all non-essential work-related travel, requiring masks to be worn at all offices and when entering resident homes, and providing regular communication about COVID-19 impacts and protocols to its associates. Keeping the Company's associates healthy and safe continues to be critical, and the Company hopes its actions contributed toward minimizing the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Community and Social Impact
8
Table of Contents

The Company believes volunteering can create positive change in the communities where our associates live and work and that the Company's commitment to giving back helps it attract and retain associates. The Company's Essex Volunteer Program is aimed at supporting and encouraging eligible associates to become actively involved in their communities through the Company's support of charity initiatives and offering paid hours for volunteer time. Additionally, in 2020 the Company established the Essex Cares program for the purpose of supporting the Company’s residents and communities that are experiencing financial hardships caused by the COVID-19 pandemic

Essex raised over $400,000 through employee and director contributions and the Company committed $3,000,000, raising a total fund in 2020 of $3.4 million and began making donations to our residents in need. Additionally, in 2020, Essex established an Employee Emergency Relief Program, which is designed to provide contributions to employees and families experiencing hardships such as a death or disability.

Employee Engagement

In order to engage and promote communication with our associates and solicit meaningful feedback on our efforts to create a positive work environment, the Company has issued engagement surveys to all associates annually, and has begun transitioning to a shorter and more frequent pulse survey format in 2020. The results of the 2020 survey indicate that 93% of surveyed associates consider that their day-to-day work directly impacts the Company’s mission and vision, 91% believe that their opinions and ideas matter at Essex, and 93% feel that the Company supports diversity, equity and inclusion in the workplace.

INSURANCE

The Company purchases general liability and property insurance coverage, including loss of rent, for each of its communities. The Company also purchases limited earthquake, terrorism, environmental and flood insurance. There are certain types of losses which may not be covered or could exceed coverage limits. The insurance programs are subject to deductibles and self-insured retentions in varying amounts. The Company utilizes a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Pacific Western Insurance LLC ("PWI") to self-insure certain earthquake and property losses. As of December 31, 2020, PWI had cash and marketable securities of approximately $152.8 million, and is consolidated in the Company's financial statements.

All of the Company's communities are located in areas that are subject to earthquake activity. The Company evaluates its financial loss exposure to seismic events by using actuarial loss models developed by the insurance industry and in most cases property vulnerability analysis based on structural evaluations by seismic consultants. The Company manages this exposure, where considered appropriate, desirable, and cost-effective, by upgrading properties to increase their resistance to forces caused by seismic events, by considering available funds and coverages provided by PWI and/or by purchasing seismic insurance. In most cases the Company also purchases limited earthquake insurance for certain properties owned by the Company's co-investments.  
In addition, the Company carries other types of insurance coverage related to a variety of risks and exposures.  
Based on market conditions, the Company may change or potentially eliminate insurance coverages, or increase levels of self-insurance. Further, the Company may incur losses, which could be material, due to uninsured risks, deductibles and self-insured retentions, and/or losses in excess of coverage limits.
COMPETITION

There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the Company’s communities in attracting tenants. These include other apartment communities, condominiums and single-family homes. If the demand for the Company’s communities is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing housing, rental rates and occupancy may drop which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

The Company faces competition from other REITs, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and operation of apartment communities. Some competitors are larger and have greater financial resources than the Company. This competition may result in increased costs of apartment communities the Company acquires and/or develops.

WORKING CAPITAL

9
Table of Contents
The Company believes that cash flows generated by its operations, existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities balances, availability under existing lines of credit, access to capital markets and the ability to generate cash from the disposition of real estate are sufficient to meet all of its reasonably anticipated cash needs during 2021.

The timing, source and amounts of cash flows provided by financing activities and used in investing activities are sensitive to changes in interest rates, stock price, and other fluctuations in the capital markets environment, which can affect the Company’s plans for acquisitions, dispositions, development and redevelopment activities.

ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS

See the discussion under the caption, "Risks Related to Real Estate Investments and Our Operations - The Company’s Portfolio may have environmental liabilities" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, for information concerning the potential effect of environmental regulations on its operations, which discussion is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.

OTHER MATTERS

Certain Policies of the Company

The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company may in the future (i) issue securities senior to its common stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of common stock and/or units of limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership or affiliated partnerships as partial consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time acquires partnership interests in partnerships and joint ventures, either directly or indirectly through subsidiaries of the Company, when such entities’ underlying assets are real estate.

The Company invests primarily in apartment communities that are located in predominantly coastal markets within Southern California, Northern California, and the Seattle metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue to invest in apartment communities in such regions. However, these practices may be reviewed and modified periodically by management.