Overview
Etsy operates two-sided online marketplaces that connect millions of passionate and creative buyers and sellers. Our mission is to “Keep Commerce Human,” and we’re committed to using the power of business and technology to strengthen communities and empower people around the world.
Our primary marketplace, Etsy.com, is the global destination for unique and creative goods. The Etsy marketplace connects creative artisans and entrepreneurs with thoughtful consumers looking for items that are intended to make both everyday and meaningful occasions feel special as well as reflect their sense of style. Our sellers are the heart and soul of Etsy, and our technology platform allows our sellers to turn their creative passions into economic opportunity. We have a seller-aligned business model: we make money when our sellers make money. We offer Etsy sellers a marketplace with millions of buyers along with a range of seller tools and services that are specifically designed to help our creative entrepreneurs generate more sales and scale their businesses.
Buyers come to the Etsy marketplace to be inspired and delighted by items that are crafted and curated by our creative entrepreneurs. We are focused on attracting potential buyers to Etsy for everyday items that have meaning and those “special” purchase occasions that happen throughout the year. These occasions can occur many times throughout the year and include items that reflect an individual’s unique style; gifting that demonstrates thought and care; and celebrations that express creativity and fun. They can also happen many times throughout the year when a buyer is decorating a home, selecting an outfit for a special event, planning a celebration for a special moment, or buying a gift for someone special. In fact, in a 2020 survey of Etsy buyers, 88% of buyers agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else.
etsy-20201231_g1.jpg

1
Table of Contents

During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic significantly shifted global consumer shopping behavior towards online purchases of many retail categories. Millions of buyers found us for the first time, or discovered Etsy again, for many everyday items, including those that were temporarily unavailable elsewhere. This enabled Etsy to reinforce our brand messaging by aligning “special” with everyday purchase occasions. We highlighted sellers’ merchandise and categories to focus on essentials and developed a thoughtful and powerful strategy to define what “everyday” means for Etsy, bringing it to life in our marketing and product experiences for buyers. We now have the opportunity to focus on deepening our engagement with buyers by inspiring purchases across many retail categories and shopping occasions - and well beyond how they may have thought of Etsy in the past. The graphic below depicts just a few examples of Etsy’s relevance, and we believe we can deepen engagement with buyers by inspiring purchases in additional categories and on additional occasions.

etsy-20201231_g2.jpg
etsy-20201231_g3.jpg
Reverb, which we acquired in 2019, is a leading global online marketplace dedicated to buying and selling new, used, and vintage musical instruments, with a vibrant community of buyers and sellers all over the world. Reverb, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Etsy, Inc., is included in all financial and other metrics, unless otherwise noted.
As of December 31, 2020, the Etsy and Reverb marketplaces connected 4.4 million active sellers to 81.9 million active buyers. Our buyers and sellers are located all over the world, and our seven core geographic markets are the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, France, and India, which is the most recent addition to the list. In identifying our core geographies, we consider locations that represent our most attractive buyer GMS opportunities, where we currently have or believe we can create a vibrant two-sided marketplace, or as in the case of India, where we are making strategic investments in domestic growth. There are currently nearly 87 million items for sale across many retail categories in our marketplaces. In 2020, our sellers generated $10.3 billion of Gross Merchandise Sales (“GMS”), approximately 61% of which came from purchases made on mobile devices. In 2020, our top six retail categories on the Etsy marketplace were homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, craft supplies, apparel, beauty and personal care, paper and party supplies, and with the addition of Reverb, we now have a significant presence in the market for musical instruments. We are a global company, and 36% of our 2020 GMS was generated when a seller or buyer, or both, were located outside of the United States.
2
Table of Contents

Our revenue is diversified, generated from a mix of marketplace activities and other optional services we provide to sellers to help them generate more sales and scale their businesses.
Marketplace revenue is comprised of the fees a seller pays us for marketplace activities. Marketplace activities include listing an item for sale; completing transactions between a buyer and a seller, which includes, where applicable, beginning in the second quarter of 2020, an additional transaction fee related to offsite advertising; and using our payments platforms to process payments, including foreign currency payments. Etsy fees include the $0.20 listing fee for each item listed (for up to four months), the 5% transaction fee that an Etsy seller pays for each completed transaction, inclusive of shipping fees charged, where applicable, an additional transaction fee of 12% or 15% related to offsite advertising, and fees for Etsy Payments, our payment processing product. Etsy began charging for Offsite Ads in May 2020; sellers pay Etsy 12% or 15% of the value of a sale based on the seller’s volume of sales if such sale is generated from an advertisement placed by us on third-party internet platforms. In the second half of 2020, 9% of Etsy GMS was subject to an Offsite Ads transaction fee. Etsy Payments processing fees vary between 3.0% and 4.5% of an item’s total sale price, including shipping, plus a flat fee per order, depending on the country in which a seller’s bank account is located. We earn additional fees on transactions in which currency conversions are performed. As of December 31, 2020, Etsy Payments was available in 45 countries and 21 currencies, and nearly all sellers in countries where Etsy Payments is available are required to use the service. In fact, 92% of total GMS from the Etsy marketplace (“Etsy.com GMS”) was processed through Etsy Payments in 2020, up from 89% in 2019. By October of 2020, we expanded Etsy Payments to 9 additional countries, so GMS processed through Etsy Payments only reflects a partial year for those countries in 2020. Our ability to expand Etsy Payments into additional countries is dependent upon the third-party providers we use to support this service. Reverb fees include the 5.0% transaction fee that a Reverb seller pays for each completed transaction, inclusive of shipping fees charged, and fees for payment processing. On August 4, 2020, Reverb increased its seller transaction fee from 3.5% to 5%. There are no listing fees for the Reverb marketplace.
Services revenue is comprised of the fees a seller pays us for our optional services (“Services”), which help Etsy sellers generate more sales and play a key role in enabling our sellers to scale their businesses. We believe we can grow seller optional paid services in three ways: by expanding the utility of existing services, expanding the geographic reach of existing services, and launching new services offerings. For the Etsy marketplace, primary optional services include on-site advertising services, which allow Etsy sellers to pay for prominent placement of their listings in search results, and Etsy Shipping Labels, which allows Etsy sellers in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Australia to purchase discounted shipping labels. During 2020, 22% of active Etsy sellers used our advertising platform, up from 17% in 2019. In 2020, we enhanced our dynamic cost-per-click on-site advertising by improving the relevance of ads in search and the speed of incorporating changes in a seller's budget. We also applied our improved search algorithms to Etsy Ads to drive ad relevance and higher click-through rates, leading to accelerated year-over-year revenue growth for this service. Our shipping label service provides Etsy sellers the ability to print their shipping labels at home, which reduces the cost and time it takes Etsy sellers to ship items to Etsy buyers and reduces the chance for administrative error through features such as auto population of shipping addresses, and automatically provides buyers with tracking information (when available) and shipping notifications. Our shipping labels service also incorporates logistics solutions that help Etsy sellers save time and money. During 2020, 22% of active Etsy sellers in regions where Etsy Shipping Labels was offered used this service. While this utilization rate is down from 23% in 2019 as a result of the year-over-year growth in active Etsy sellers, the total number of active Etsy sellers using the service has increased. For the Reverb marketplace, optional services include Bump, an on-site advertising product that enables Reverb sellers to determine their own ad rates as a percentage of their item’s final sale price, and Reverb Shipping Labels, which gives Reverb sellers access to discounted shipping rates.
3
Table of Contents

Our Opportunity
We believe that the nature of commerce is continuing to evolve: more people are choosing to purchase goods online and many consumers are looking for special items as an alternative to mass produced goods. In 2019, Etsy conducted a market opportunity analysis. At that time we estimated that the online market size across all relevant retail categories for the Etsy marketplace within six of our seven core geographic markets, United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, and France, represents a $249 billion market opportunity, and a $1.7 trillion market opportunity when offline is included. We estimated that by 2023, the online market opportunity would expand to $437 billion and $2 trillion when offline is included. We have not updated this market opportunity analysis as a result of the dramatic shift to online that has occurred during 2020, nor have we included India, our seventh core geographic market in this analysis.
We operate in over 50 different retail categories and our top six categories based on GMS (inclusive of masks) in 2020 were: homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, craft supplies, apparel, beauty and personal care, and paper and party supplies. Mask sales, a subcategory of beauty and personal care, added $743 million in GMS in 2020.
etsy-20201231_g4.jpg
*Excludes mask sales.
2020 Category Etsy.com GMS 
4
Table of Contents

Our Platform
We leverage technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Our platform includes the Etsy and Reverb online marketplaces, our seller tools and services, our passionate and engaged sellers and buyers, and our technology. Our commitment to transparency and integrity underpins our platform and establishes trust within our marketplaces and our community.
etsy-20201231_g5.jpg
Key Components of Our Platform 
Our Marketplaces
The Etsy Marketplace
Our primary marketplace, Etsy.com, is where thoughtful buyers come to discover a broad selection of unique goods that are hard to find elsewhere. In a world of increasing automation and commoditization, Etsy celebrates creativity and human interaction. We believe this marketplace is characterized by several unique qualities, including:
•Unique Products: Etsy boasts a large assortment of handmade, customized, personalized, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. There are currently approximately 85 million items listed on the Etsy marketplace. We continue to improve the customer experience by delivering a brand promise around shipping to align with our buyers’ expectations of when they can expect to receive our unique items.
•Global Reach: Etsy’s seven core geographic markets are the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, France, and India, which is the most recent addition to our core markets, in addition to sellers and buyers in nearly every other country around the world. Our platform makes it easy for Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers to interact across borders even if they do not speak the same language and wish to transact in different currencies. We use innovative machine translation technology to translate listings, reviews, Etsy Ads, and conversations between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers. In addition to language processing we invest in localization within our international markets to create a fully localized experience for all Etsy buyers and sellers. Our payments platform allows Etsy sellers to offer Etsy buyers a wide range of payment options. In 2020, 43% of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and 38% of our GMS was generated between an Etsy seller, Etsy buyer, or both, located outside of the United States.
•Organic Traffic Base: We’ve organically built a loyal, global base of Etsy buyers on the platform. The vast majority of visits to the Etsy marketplace come through organic channels, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications. In 2020, 80% of our GMS was generated through organic channels.
•Connection Between Etsy Buyers and Sellers: We believe that human connection is central to buyer engagement. We emphasize that the items listed for sale on the Etsy marketplace are brought to life by real people. Additionally, buyers are able to connect directly with sellers in order to ask questions and personalize or customize items to their specifications. We believe that meaningful interactions with Etsy sellers differentiate us from other e-commerce platforms, drive buyer engagement, and keep our buyers coming back. When buyers and sellers interact on the platform, their conversion rate and average order value is significantly higher. In 2020,we launched listing videos, where sellers showcase their expertise in making and bringing their products to life, reinforcing buyer and seller engagement. Approximately 3.2 million seller videos were uploaded in 2020.
•Marketing: We’ve evolved our marketing strategy to reinforce our core brand promise in the minds of Etsy buyers, and strengthened our capabilities by employing a full-funnel marketing approach and optimizing our investments in each area of the funnel. During 2020 we leaned more heavily into upper funnel strategies through TV, digital video, and paid social,
5
Table of Contents

to create a flywheel that elevates the effectiveness of other channels. In 2020, we launched our innovative advertising program for sellers called Offsite Ads, in which Etsy pays the upfront costs to promote Etsy sellers’ listings on multiple internet platforms without any upfront costs for sellers. When a shopper clicks on an offsite ad featuring a seller’s listing and purchases from their shop within 30 days of that click, the seller will pay Etsy a transaction fee on that order - but only when they make a sale. Our Offsite Ads program is a win-win for Etsy and our sellers: sellers only pay when they make a sale and the additional fee enables Etsy to expand the Lifetime Value, or “LTV,” of buyers and drive more visits to the Etsy marketplace. In 2020, the percentage of GMS attributed to performance marketing was 20%, up from 15% in 2019, with the expansion in paid GMS primarily driven by Offsite Ads. Our investments in performance marketing, which we define as spend related to the digital acquisition of buyers, adjust according to demand and scale based on incremental return.
•Connected Experience Across all Devices: We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience regardless of the format. Our mobile website and our Etsy mobile app for Etsy buyers include search and discovery, curation, personalization, augmented reality, and social shopping features. We offer a connected experience through each channel, desktop, mobile web, and mobile app, to help ensure that no matter what device Etsy buyers use they will have the best possible experience. Additionally, our “Sell on Etsy” mobile app helps Etsy sellers operate their shops and manage orders. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 62% of Etsy.com GMS was generated on a mobile device, up from 59% in 2019. Mobile web contributes the largest share of traffic, followed by desktop and our mobile app. We believe growth in percentage of mobile app visits could be a tailwind to future conversion rate gains, as our mobile app channel has the highest conversion rate, followed by desktop and mobile web.
•Buyer Intent; People Come to the Etsy Marketplace to Browse and be Inspired: Our platform is designed to provide a personalized search experience to Etsy buyers, adjusting results and recommendations based on transaction data and previous browsing history. Many of our buyers come to Etsy not in search of a specific item, but to browse and be inspired. We are continuing to build more sophisticated algorithms that allow us to deliver more personalized results to our buyers, utilizing browse and transaction data to surface items buyers didn’t know they wanted. In the beginning of 2020, we completed our major migration to Google Cloud and, during the course of 2020, launched a number of initiatives to enhance search and bring fun to the discovery and shopping experience, including more relevant recommendations when buyers are further along in the purchase funnel, additional progress with saved searches and favorites, making the site more browsable and increasing site performance, which all improved organic search. We integrated advanced machine learning techniques such as improved model engines in order to drive further search improvements. During 2020, we doubled our utilization of data processed per search query compared to 2019 and continued our efforts to close the semantic gap and leverage buyer attributes to deliver more personalized search results. We believe we have significant opportunities to further enhance our search and discovery capabilities and plan to leverage our machine learning technology, including increased model complexity and further contextual cues to deliver an even more personalized shopping experience in the future.
The Reverb Marketplace
Reverb, our wholly-owned subsidiary, operates as a separate marketplace and was founded on the principle that buying and selling musical instruments should be easy. Reverb’s mission is to make the world more musical. This unique two-sided marketplace connects buyers and sellers of new, used, and vintage musical gear from all over the world, uniting music makers with the gear that inspires them. Reverb’s buyers and sellers range from beginning musicians looking for their first instruments, professional musicians that utilize the platform to expand their tools, local music stores that use Reverb to do more business online and the largest music retailers in the world that use Reverb to reach an even larger audience.
Reverb’s unique characteristics include:
•Depth and Breadth of Inventory: The Reverb marketplace had 1.8 million listings as of December 31, 2020, including unique used and vintage gear, instruments played on tour and on popular albums by well-known musicians, and exclusive, boutique, and handmade items that you can only find on Reverb.
•Range of Sellers: Reverb provides buyers unparalleled access to an expansive inventory because of its wide network of retailers, manufacturers, and individual sellers distributed across the globe. During the COVID-19 pandemic, while competitors experienced warehouse backlog issues and out-of-stock inventory, Reverb continued to connect buyers with sellers who had in-stock inventory and were able to ship safely. With Reverb’s global footprint and network of sellers, it offers players a wider variety of inventory than any single retailer can.

6
Table of Contents

•Expertise: Reverb’s team of musicians and gear experts has created not only a marketplace built for buying and selling gear, but also one of the largest musical instrument databases in the world, with transaction information for nearly 10 million orders. This extensive data set means that when a seller lists an instrument for sale, the seller can estimate the current market value of the item.
•Community of Players: Reverb has a large and passionate community of musicians and music gear lovers that engage on its platform, resulting in high quality transactions and interactions for both buyers and sellers.
Laying the foundation for further success, we brought on a new Chief Executive to lead Reverb and rolled out a new product experimentation process similar to Etsy’s, enabling the team to iterate much faster. The Reverb team has launched initiatives to accelerate seller sales volume including enhancing the presentation of financing options, adding seller reviews to product pages, offering more competitive shipping rates to buyers that purchase multiple items, and increasing customer support to improve the experience for buyers and sellers. These initiatives are all designed to positively impact conversion rate and order size for sellers. To enable further incremental improvements to the marketplace, in August 2020 Reverb increased its seller transaction fee for the first time from 3.5% to 5%. With this change, Reverb increased investments in marketing, expanded its global customer engagement team, and grew the capacity of its product team focused on creating and enhancing seller tools and services.
As the COVID-19 pandemic shifted consumer habits to shopping online and shelter-in-place restrictions increased interest in creating and recording music at home, Reverb experienced an increase in sales and new buyers. Based on which items were popular and a significant increase in new gear sales, it appears that many consumers were picking up musical instruments for the first time. Reverb’s fastest growing categories in 2020 included acoustic guitars, synthesizers and keyboards, audio interfaces (often used for home recording) and drum machines.
Reverb believes that the pandemic accelerated the shift to buying instruments online and that this shift is likely to continue even after retailers fully reopen. Leveraging this momentum, Reverb is making investments in the marketplace to drive sustained growth over time.
Additional Etsy Tools and Services
In addition to our paid services, we provide a wide range of tools and educational resources to give Etsy sellers the support they need to manage the administrative side of their businesses. According to our seller survey, most recently conducted in 2021, for every hour that an Etsy seller spends making her products, she spends almost another hour doing business-related tasks, including inventory management, marketing, shipping, customer service, and accounting. Our tools and educational resources help manage these administrative burdens.
As 2020 brought an unparalleled set of challenges for our seller community, we expanded our resources and tools to help sellers grow their businesses during the pandemic. We collected our best practices and published our “Ultimate Guide to Running Your Shop During COVID-19,” which highlights trends and some of the biggest themes that emerged in 2020. During the year we dedicated resources to invest in our seller community and advocated on their behalf. We provided over $13 million of one-time investments and donations to support our sellers and communities, launched a multi-channel campaign titled “Stand with Small” to remind shoppers that a purchase from Etsy supports independent sellers, and advocated on behalf of our sellers to members of the U.S. Congress to ensure that the self-employed were included in major COVID-19 relief bills and legislation.
•Seller Tools: We offer a variety of free tools to Etsy sellers, including our Shop Manager dashboard, which serves as a centralized hub for Etsy sellers to track orders, manage inventory, view metrics and statistics, and have conversations with their customers across all of their Etsy shops. This dashboard is a single, easy-to-use interface that streamlines sellers’ bills and payments accounts. Our Etsy seller analytics pages provide additional insights regarding traffic acquisition for their shops. Other marketing tools include Targeted Offers, our sales and promotions tool, and our social media tool, which help Etsy sellers with their marketing needs and allows them to stand out on and off the Etsy platform. Also, through a partnership with Intuit, Etsy sellers in the United States and the United Kingdom can simplify their accounting and bookkeeping.
•Education: We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to start, manage, and scale their businesses on our platform, including blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on Etsy.com), Etsy.com online forums, and insights from our support teams. In addition to our resources, Etsy sellers connect through self-organized Etsy Teams to build personal relationships with other Etsy sellers, collaborate, educate, and support each other as they build their independent creative businesses.
7
Table of Contents

Our focus on supporting our sellers in starting, managing, and scaling their businesses strengthens our marketplace and positions it for continued growth. When our sellers succeed, Etsy succeeds.

etsy-20201231_g6.jpg
How an Etsy Seller Spends Her Time	
2021 seller survey
 
Reverb Services
Reverb has several services that drive growth in the marketplace and relieve friction in the purchase funnel.
Advertising: Reverb’s on-site advertising platform, referred to as Bump, enables Reverb sellers to gain prominent placement on Reverb in exchange for a higher percentage of their items’ final sale price.
Reverb Shipping Labels: Reverb provides sellers access to shipping labels at significant discounts, which reduces the cost and time it takes Reverb sellers to ship musical gear, and provides transparency through tracking information about when a buyer can expect to receive their item. The ability to print the shipping labels at home reduces the cost and time it takes Reverb sellers to ship items to Reverb buyers, reduces the chance for administrative error through features such as auto population of shipping addresses, and automatically provides tracking information when available and shipping notifications to buyers.
Our Passionate and Engaged Etsy Sellers and Buyers
Etsy Sellers
Our sellers are the backbone of Etsy’s business and what matters most to them is our community of approximately 81 million buyers. In order to continue to support our sellers’ growth, we are focused on making Etsy the best place to start and run a creative business. We serve creative artisans and entrepreneurs around the world who choose to pursue their passions, offering them a global base of millions of buyers and a cohesive suite of tools and services to help them run their business and drive sales. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. In 2020, active sellers, those who sold an item or incurred a bill charge in the last 12 months, grew 63.5% compared to 2019. As cloth face coverings became mandatory in many geographies, we mobilized our sellers to make and sell face masks on the Etsy platform, a category that was relatively small entering 2020. Many sellers pivoted their product listings to face masks, and given the ease of starting a shop on Etsy, we acquired new sellers, reaching millions of buyers.

8
Table of Contents

Our 2021 seller survey found that 55% of Etsy sellers are multi-channel sellers and that, on average, Etsy is their primary source of sales. In 2019, the second largest channel was craft fairs and live selling events, but during the COVID-19 pandemic, many sellers focused their efforts in online channels, with Etsy garnering the majority share.
According to our 2021 seller survey:
•81% identify as women;
•69% consider their Etsy shop to be a business;
•97% run their shops from their homes;
•82% aspire to grow their sales in the future; and
•65% started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income.
Our 2021 seller survey found that 30% of Etsy sellers were pursuing their creative business as their sole occupation.
etsy-20201231_g7.jpg
Etsy Sellers 
Etsy Buyers
The Etsy marketplace supports a community of approximately 81 million buyers, who value self-expression, unique items, and buying directly from creative artisans and entrepreneurs. In a 2020 survey of Etsy buyers, 88% of buyers agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else. Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. Etsy buyers can also purchase customized items, vintage merchandise, and craft supplies from Etsy sellers. By shopping on the Etsy marketplace, Etsy buyers are supporting creative artisans and entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world. The vast majority of visits come to the Etsy marketplace from organic channels, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications.
We are focused on driving more new buyers to the platform and encouraging existing buyers to purchase more often. New buyers are considered unique buyers that have never made a purchase on the Etsy marketplace. During 2020, we had over 38 million new Etsy buyers, up 102% compared to last year. GMS from new buyers was up 94% year-over-year and represented approximately 16% of overall Etsy.com GMS.
GMS from existing Etsy buyers grew 101% year-over-year in 2020 and represented approximately 84% of overall Etsy.com GMS, in line with last year. We’ve made significant strides in reactivating buyers, generating purchases from buyers who hadn’t made a purchase in a year or more. We generated over 22 million reactivated buyers in 2020, growing 77% compared to the prior year. Of the 60.7 million new and reactivated buyers in 2020, approximately 17% made four or more purchases across two or more categories, demonstrating encouraging signs for frequency.
Repeat Etsy buyers represent shoppers who made purchases on two or more days in the previous 12 months. We believe repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In 2020, on the Etsy marketplace, approximately 48% of our active buyers were repeat buyers, an increase compared to last year. We are particularly focused on converting our repeat buyers into habitual buyers, or Etsy buyers who have spent $200 or more and made purchases on six or more days in the previous 12 months. As of December 31, 2020, habitual buyers grew to 6.5 million, an increase of 157% compared to 2019. The growth in habitual buyers has accelerated for three consecutive quarters and is faster than overall active buyer growth, indicating our efforts to convert buyers into more loyal shoppers on the Etsy marketplace are seeing signs of success.
9
Table of Contents

We’ve attracted nearly 151 million total buyers on the platform (unique buyers who have ever purchased on Etsy) since our launch in 2005.
etsy-20201231_g8.jpg
Active Buyers by Purchase Type
 

10
Table of Contents

Etsy Seller & Buyer Retention
On the Etsy marketplace, our active sellers and active buyers typically remain so for multiple years. For example, 42.5% of active sellers and 41.5% of active buyers as of December 31, 2017 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform, and 36.2% of active sellers and 37.9% of active buyers as of December 31, 2016 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform. In addition, as of December 31, 2020, 18.4% of active sellers have been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Likewise, as of December 31, 2020, 20.2% of active buyers have been Etsy buyers for more than four years.

etsy-20201231_g9.jpg etsy-20201231_g10.jpg
Year 1		Year 2		Year 3		Year 4								Year 1		Year 2		Year 3		Year 4																														AVG GMS		2013		$1,260		$3,110		$4,190		$4,620				AVG GMS		2013		$96		$161		$168		$174																														PER SELLER		2014		$1,465		$3,325		$4,228		$4,615				PER BUYER		2014		$99		$157		$164		$169																																2015		$1,558		$3,296		$4,062		$4,939						2015		$101		$158		$163		$180																																2016		$1,660		$3,198		$4,278		$5,004						2016		$101		$157		$174		$187																																2017		$1,641		$2,875		$4,090		$6,538						2017		$92		$173		$186		$241																												 
Cohorts of 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, and 2013 Active Sellers and Active Buyers 

11
Table of Contents

etsy-20201231_g11.jpg
*2020 GMS per buyer by cohort from 2015 - 2019 excluding mask GMS
Historical Cohorts: 2020 GMS per Buyer 

12
Table of Contents

Our Technology 
Our engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of sellers and buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages, and devices. We collect and analyze large volumes of data to enhance the performance of our platform to produce personalized recommendations, improve our search experience, and test features on our website.
Our use of machine learning algorithms on the Etsy marketplace creates an engaging shopping experience and helps Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers connect across our platform. We apply proprietary machine learning to the search and discovery processes, enabling shoppers to more easily browse, filter, and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind. Machine translation and machine learning also play an important role in making it easy for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to connect even if they don’t speak the same language. We translate listings within our Etsy marketplace, which we believe significantly increases the inventory available to non-English speaking Etsy buyers and gives Etsy sellers access to a truly global audience.
In addition, our technology infrastructure allows us to scale our efforts across the platform. In February 2020 we completed our principal migration to Google Cloud, which we believe will result in increased engineering efficiency, shifting the focus from maintaining on-premise systems to product engineering work that is more strategic. As the COVID-19 pandemic shifted consumer shopping habits to more online commerce, traffic volume increased dramatically, and the cloud migration enabled us to dynamically flex our infrastructure. In addition to its flexible capacity, we also believe the cloud will enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble technology on an as needed basis. For example, during 2020 we processed twice as much data per search query as we did in 2019.
Commitment to Integrity and Transparency
Members of our community rely on us to maintain trusted marketplaces. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among people in our community are cornerstones of our business. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency among our members by clearly outlining the rights and responsibilities of sellers and buyers participating on our platform. Transparency within our community reflects and helps to support our own trustworthiness. For example, we have an Impact strategy on which we provide our progress in this Annual Report.
On the Etsy marketplace, we strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing goods from a shop that adheres to certain principles, which starts with our policies. Fundamentally, we require that goods listed on Etsy be handmade (whether by the seller alone or with the help of a production partner), vintage, or craft supplies. Etsy buyers have a high degree of insight into Etsy sellers’ business practices. Our policies ask Etsy sellers to be transparent about themselves, their businesses, and the goods they sell.
We are focused on enhancing customer service for our sellers and buyers, which we believe bolsters the trustworthiness of our marketplaces. For example, in 2020, we continued to evolve our offerings with Zendesk to improve our customer experience. We expanded 24/7 live chat and phone support for both our buyers and sellers. Our commitment to integrity and transparency came into particular focus in 2020. When the COVID-19 pandemic triggered the sale of masks and other COVID-19-related products, our Policy and Trust and Safety teams agilely calibrated our policy interpretation and enforcement approaches to align with constantly evolving official guidance. When Etsy called for sellers to make masks to meet soaring buyer demand, our Trust and Safety team worked to provide sellers with educational resources highlighting what is permitted to be sold on the Etsy platform and best practices for listing masks in accordance with our policies. In response to the social justice protests and civil unrest that began in the spring of 2020 and continued through a divisive, highly polarized U.S. election cycle, our Policy and Trust and Safety teams closely followed unfolding events and their impact on our marketplaces. These teams re-evaluated content on Etsy in the context of emerging trends to determine whether such content violated our Terms of Use, including our Prohibited Items policy and zero tolerance approach for items that promote, support, or glorify hate or violence or that perpetuate the spread of harmful misinformation.
We have dedicated teams and sophisticated tools to help enforce our policies. Our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems, and community-generated flags to review items listed on the Etsy marketplace and Etsy shops that may violate our policies. Our Trust and Safety team helps to prevent and detect fraud through human review and automated tools and algorithms. We also recognize that sometimes transactions don’t go as planned. When that happens, our online Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections between Etsy sellers and buyers through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and apps, and, when possible, in-person events, highlighting personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience.
13
Table of Contents

We publish an annual transparency report, which details our policy enforcement for the year on Intellectual Property, Prohibited Items, and Requests for Member Information policies. We’ve shared this report on our corporate website annually since 2015, and believe that publicly reporting on our enforcement efforts builds trust in our marketplace and community.
Our Strategy
Etsy
Our strategy is focused on growing the Etsy marketplace in our seven core geographies and executing upon four key initiatives to make Etsy a better place to shop and sell: We focus our investments in search and discovery, trust and reliability, marketing capabilities, and seller tools and services. Investing in and successfully delivering on these initiatives has resulted in significant improvements to and growth of our marketplace.
In order to deliver sustainable long-term growth, we are building upon this strategy to incorporate additional elements that we believe, over time, will make Etsy a best-in-class marketplace. Our investments in product, marketing, and talent will be focused on capitalizing on what we believe are our core competitive advantages, or what we think of as our “Right to Win.”
The foundation of Etsy’s Right to Win is our sellers’ collection of unique items, which we believe, when combined with best-in-class search and discovery, human connections, and a trusted brand, will enable us to continue to stand out among other e-commerce platforms and marketplaces. Ultimately, the goal of our long-term strategy is to attract new buyers, increase buyer frequency, encourage buyers to spend more per order, fuel success for our sellers, and drive growth. During the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, we saw the effectiveness of our Right to Win, as our buyers came to Etsy for our sellers’ unique inventory of essentials and everyday items.
The Etsy marketplace has a significant number of habitual buyers (Etsy buyers who have purchased $200 or more on Etsy and have made purchases on six or more purchase days in the last 12 months), and we believe we have the ability to attract many more buyers like them and convert them into habitual buyers. We believe we can deepen engagement with our existing buyers by inspiring purchases in additional categories and occasions. We also plan to continue supporting our sellers by creating and enhancing seller tools and services designed to help sellers scale and grow their business and drive buyer demand.
etsy-20201231_g12.jpg
Further expanding on these two primary components of our long-term strategy we will:
1. Focus on the Etsy marketplace in our seven core geographies:
The first component and foundation of our growth strategy is our focus on the Etsy marketplace in our seven core geographies (United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, France, and India). Our core geographies are locations that meet any of the following criteria:
•represent our most attractive buyer GMS opportunities,
•where we currently have or believe we can create a vibrant two-sided marketplace, or
•where we’re making strategic investments in domestic growth.
We are continuing to expand our global reach. A barometer of our local market vibrancy is the performance of our international domestic trade routes, measured by GMS generated between a non-U.S. buyer and a non-U.S. seller both in the same country.
14
Table of Contents

Etsy.com GMS from this trade route grew approximately 182% in 2020 compared to 2019, making it the fastest growing category of international GMS. We see significant opportunity to deliver a more localized shopping experience to non-U.S. buyers in the future. This opportunity may include making investments in the elevation of local products and sellers in search, improving non-English search, and providing more localized marketing and campaigns.
We have buyers and sellers in nearly every country around the world, and while we focus on our seven core markets, we will also continue to evaluate additional geographies for strategic investments. Continued international expansion may require significant financial investment, especially in markets where we have limited operating experience, including in areas such as seller and buyer acquisition marketing, enhancing our machine translation across new languages, and forming relationships with third-party service providers.
Our growth strategy also includes investments for inorganic growth, including our 2018 strategic referral agreement with DaWanda in Germany and the 2019 acquisition of Reverb. We may continue to acquire additional marketplaces or businesses that are a strategic fit for the business and brand.
2. Build a sustainable competitive advantage:
As described above, our Right to Win is centered on these four key elements:
Our Sellers’ Collection of Unique Items: The foundation of Etsy’s competitive advantage is our sellers’ collection of unique items. Sellers choose to list their collections of unique items on our marketplace because they believe that we are the best place for them to start and grow a creative business and that we have created a community that attracts, supports, and retains some of the world’s most talented makers. The Etsy marketplace features approximately 85 million items listed across multiple retail categories and boasts a large assortment of unique, handmade, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. In a 2020 survey of Etsy buyers, 88% agreed that Etsy has items that you can’t find anywhere else - that something “special in a sea of sameness.” We believe the Etsy marketplace is the only place where you can find this depth and breadth of one-of-a-kind items, including millions that can be customized and personalized. The unique nature of these items requires that we invest in the other three elements of our long-term strategy: search and discovery, human connections, and our trusted brand in order deliver a best-in-class marketplace experience.
Best-in-class search and discovery: We are focused on continuing to develop a search and discovery experience that unlocks the value of the unique items in the Etsy marketplace. With millions of items listed on Etsy that don’t map to a catalog or a stock keeping unit (“SKU”), our challenge is delivering world-class search and discovery technology that surfaces the right unique product to the right buyer at the right time in order to drive sales and buyer satisfaction. We are utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning to help personalize the search experience and enable Etsy buyers to more easily browse, filter and find the item they desire.
In 2020, we significantly enhanced the search and discovery experience on the Etsy marketplace. As a result of migrating our search efforts to Google Cloud, we made foundational upgrades to our search ranking algorithms, which continues to enable us to provide more relevant search results to buyers on the Etsy platform. We continue to make progress closing the semantic gap, and during 2020, we processed two times more data per search query compared to last year. All of our efforts have enabled us to launch personalized search, where two buyers who enter the same search query may receive different results based on their characteristics. As we continue to iterate on our search initiatives, our algorithms will learn and deliver a more personalized shopping experience, which we anticipate will deepen buyer engagement and drive greater visit and purchase frequency.
The power of human connections: Our mission to “Keep Commerce Human” is a vital part of our strategy. We continue to emphasize the role that humans play in every aspect of our business. What makes the Etsy marketplace special isn’t just the unique items in our marketplace; it’s also the stories of how those items were brought to life by the hands of real people. Our Etsy buyer experience highlights the story behind each item and also allows Etsy buyers to work with Etsy sellers to personalize or customize items to their exact specifications. In fact, data shows that when an Etsy buyer reaches out to an Etsy seller with a question, they are significantly more likely to purchase an item from that seller, and conversion rate goes up as response time gets shorter. We believe that fostering and elevating the quality of these human connections will enable us to drive buyer engagement, loyalty, and purchase frequency and to continue to differentiate Etsy from other e-commerce platforms.
In 2020, we deepened the human connections in our marketplace by launching listing videos, which help sellers showcase their products to buyers in ways they previously could not with photos, while bringing their products to life. As of the end of 2020, approximately 3.2 million sellers’ videos were uploaded. Our goal is to bring human connections to life through improvements in member support, seller forums management, our brand and marketing campaigns, and other ways that we promote the Etsy marketplace. Lastly, we deepen loyalty by creating opportunities for Etsy buyers to experience Etsy across categories and occasions.
15
Table of Contents


Our trusted brand: We will continue to focus on being a brand that inspires trust in our customers across the buyer journey — when they search, purchase, anticipate, and receive their special items, and all the steps in between. Since Etsy sellers have relatively unknown brands and unbranded items, we aim to ensure that the Etsy brand is recognized and valued for providing an excellent end-to-end experience. There are two key elements to being a trusted brand: standing for something that customers understand and rely on, and delivering a purchasing experience that feels safe and supportive. Our goal is to bolster trust in the Etsy brand, Etsy sellers, the items available on Etsy, and in the overall Etsy experience. In 2020, we leveraged reviews to help buyers make more informed purchase decisions on items they are searching for. By incorporating machine learning we are now able to prioritize the most helpful reviews which are those that have substantial text, images, and are similar to the target listing. We also continue to expand our service offerings and choice of support channels for our buyers and sellers. Offering a choice of channels continues to resonate well with the community as evidenced by a greater share of our buyers opting to connect with Etsy by phone and chat; 73% of buyer contacts in the fourth quarter of 2020 were managed by phone and chat with the balance handled in email, as compared to 64% and 26% managed by phone and chat in the fourth quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively. In addition, we continue to focus on the post purchase experience, including free shipping and transparent delivery and returns. As of December 31, 2020, 66% of items on the Etsy marketplace offered free shipping to U.S. buyers, 73% of U.S. listing views were eligible to ship for free, and 46% of global orders were delivered with free shipping. We made significant improvements in shipping transparency; as of December 31, 2020 approximately 34% of U.S. listing views had an expected delivery date.
We plan to continue to optimize the Etsy buyer shopping experience, to make it less fragmented, and to minimize friction. This will involve making sure that Etsy buyers can find what they want, can easily keep exploring for inspiration, and have the right information to make a purchase decision at every step along the way. We see significant room for additional improvements to our landing pages, our ability to surface recommendations, and continued improvements to reduce friction in the purchase funnel.
In addition, we continue to evolve our marketing strategy and investments to reinforce our core brand promise in the minds of Etsy buyers. We believe that we can continue to broaden our channel mix in the marketing funnel from predominately investing in performance marketing, which we expect to continue to drive buyer growth through channels such as product listings ads on Google or search engine marketing. Our performance marketing spend adjusts naturally with demand so as consumer habits evolve and more commerce shifts from offline to online, Etsy stands to benefit by spending more and driving more buyers to the site. We also expect to continue spending on upper funnel strategies like TV to build top of mind awareness, introduce Etsy for more of our buyers’ purchase occasions, and better engage new and existing buyers everywhere they are - on Etsy and off. In addition, we’re expanding into new marketing channels such as podcasts and influencer collections to engage with those celebrities and influencers who are passionate about Etsy. Through “Collections,” which are limited edition, exclusively curated items, Etsy and our sellers partner with celebrities and influencers to drive engagement, reach, impressions, and visits. We believe our marketing strategy coupled with a better user experience on-site will foster improved engagement with Etsy buyers.
Reverb
There are a number of similarities between the levers of growth for the Etsy and Reverb marketplaces, including improving search and discovery, making selling and buying easier, and building a global brand and user community. We believe that we are just getting started in improving the virtuous cycle of growth for our marketplaces.
2020 was also a transformational year for Reverb and its community of buyers and sellers. As the COVID-19 pandemic shifted consumer habits to shopping online, and shelter in place restrictions increased interest in creating music, Reverb experienced an increase in new buyers, many of whom were novice musicians. We are leveraging this momentum by fostering investments in the marketplace to drive sustained growth over time, including in talent, marketing, and enhancing seller tools and services to build on our core strengths.
16
Table of Contents

Our Mission, Guiding Principles, and People

Mission
Our mission to “Keep Commerce Human” is rooted in our belief that, although automation and commoditization are parts of modern life, human creativity cannot be automated and human connection cannot be commoditized. We believe that consumers are demanding more of the businesses they support and that companies that build win-win solutions that are good for people, the planet, and profit will be best positioned to succeed. We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission, guiding principles, and business strategy. This is what makes us distinct from mass retailers. Our mission guides our daily decisions, sets the path for our long-term success, and reinforces our commitment to make a positive social, economic, and ecological impact.
Guiding Principles
Our guiding principles describe how we, individually and as a team, show up at work. They define who we strive to be, inform our business decisions, inform the qualities we look to recognize, and enable us to achieve our mission. Our guiding principles are:
We commit to our craft. Our work has the power to change lives. That’s why we strive to continuously learn and excel at what we do.
We minimize waste. Time, resources, and energy are precious, so we focus only on what will have the greatest impact.
We embrace differences. Diverse teams are stronger, and inclusive cultures are more resilient. When we seek out different perspectives, we make better decisions and build better products.
We dig deeper. The best solutions to meaningful challenges are rarely easy or obvious. We stay curious, balance our intuition with insights, and decide with confidence.
We lead with optimism. We believe in our mission, and we believe in each other. We see the world as it is, set ambitious goals, and inspire one another with generosity of spirit. Together, we reimagine what’s possible.
People
We are focused on employee engagement, which is linked with high performance, retention, innovation, and growth. Our employees have chosen to work at Etsy because they believe in our action-oriented, values-based, and purpose-driven work culture. Nurturing a culture of diversity and inclusivity has always been a part of Etsy’s DNA. We welcome people of all backgrounds and walks of life into our community as employees. They work hard to bring innovative ideas and energy every day to strengthen the experience for our sellers and buyers. We believe that embracing diverse perspectives makes us stronger, more resilient and enables us to be the best we can be.
In March 2020, Etsy employees moved to a remote work environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite this shift in work environment, we were able to maintain high experiment velocity and minimal business disruption. The shift to fully remote work was not without personal stress on many of our employees, but Etsy stepped up to support our team and contractors. We initiated company-wide “rest and recharge” days off, expanded paid family leave, and provided additional resources to help our teams weather the impact of the pandemic. Our company-wide initiatives were among many efforts to provide a safe and sustainable working environment.
As of December 31, 2020, we had 1,414 employees worldwide, including Reverb, which had 205 employees.
For further information on our approach to Human Capital see “Our Impact Strategy and Progress” below.
17
Table of Contents

Our Impact Strategy and Progress
We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission, guiding principles, and business strategy.
We have developed an Impact strategy that reflects the positive economic, social, and ecological impact we want to have on the world while advancing and complementing our business strategy, and we are pleased to provide this update on our progress. Since announcing our Impact strategy in 2017, we have continued to evolve and update many of our goals to be more specific, measurable, and time bound, all while continuing to expand the transparency of our reporting on these activities. We apply the same focus, discipline, and accountability to our Impact metrics as we do our financial metrics, and together, they make us stronger and more resilient. We expect to continue to evolve our Impact strategy and disclosures in the future as we grow and our Impact work matures. In addition, we have made improvements to our Investor website to make it easier for investors to find details on our Impact strategy and progress, including our three primary Impact pillars, as well as more details on human capital management, data privacy and security, and other important ESG disclosure areas.

We acquired Reverb in August 2019 and updated our 2020 Impact goals to be inclusive of Reverb. Except where specifically noted, our Impact data includes the operations of our Reverb subsidiary.
2020 Impact Highlights
Economic Impact		Social Impact		Ecological Impact	

etsy-20201231_g13.jpg

etsy-20201231_g14.jpg

etsy-20201231_g15.jpg
Make creative entrepreneurship a path to economic security and personal empowerment.		Enable equitable access to the opportunities that we create.		Build long-term resilience by eliminating our carbon impacts and fostering responsible resource use.	We have met our goal to double Etsy sellers’ U.S. economic output by 2023. U.S. Etsy sellers contributed $13 billion to the U.S. economy in 2020, up 142% from our 2018 baseline, created 2.6 million jobs, enough to employ the entire city of Houston, Texas while generating nearly $4 billion in income to U.S. households.		Etsy continued to attract and retain world-class talent in 2020, with a keen focus on diversity and gender balance. In 2020, Etsy (excluding Reverb) more than doubled the percentage of our leadership level employee population who identify as an underrepresented minority (Black, Latinx, or Native American; collectively, “URM”). URM hires constituted 20% of U.S. hires in 2020, and our U.S. URM employee population has increased from 8.5% in 2018 to 12.5% in 2020.		We met our 2020 goal to source 100% of our electricity from renewable energy. This includes electricity used to power our global offices, remote electricity used by employees working from home in the United States as a result of COVID-19, and our computing load in colocated data centers and Google Cloud. We also met our goal to run a carbon neutral business for 2020 by investing in over 400,000 verified emissions reductions that protect forests, sponsor wind and solar farms, and help develop greener methods for producing auto parts. 
18
Table of Contents


2020 was an unprecedented year due to the global pandemic and broad social issues impacting our team and the communities we serve. With our Impact strategy as a north star, we were agile and stepped up our efforts well beyond the scope of the original goals we had outlined for 2020, all while working in a completely remote environment. Our additional 2020 Impact work included the following:
•Direct Support for Sellers: Expanded seller education to help them manage their shops through this challenging time, implemented seller fee reductions, expanded our marketing strategies to further support and feature underrepresented minority sellers in our marketplace, and launched advocacy campaigns in the United States, United Kingdom, and Europe, to win government support and economic relief for small businesses, the self-employed, and sole proprietors, such as Etsy sellers.
•Philanthropy: Made personal protective equipment (“PPE”) donations and grants to community organizations and programs that enable creative entrepreneurship, advance racial justice, and help those most impacted by the pandemic, encouraged our employees to participate in charitable organizations through paid volunteer time off and other activities.
•Expanded Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Investments: We further expanded our already robust Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (“DEI”) program while pivoting hiring, engagement, mentorship, and our Employee Resource Group (“ERG”) program to a remote environment. Our main goal is to create safe spaces for Etsy employees, strengthen social connections and professional networks, build Etsy’s collective cultural intelligence and increase equitable opportunity. We continue to expand our ERG communities in 2021 which now includes those focused on remote employees, mental health, and a group for Jewish employees called Jetsy. In 2020 our ERGs included:
etsy-20201231_g16.jpg
We have started off 2021 by making some important new commitments related to our ecological impact, including:
•Science Based Goals: In January 2021, we set long-term carbon reduction goals that are aligned with science, doing our fair share to prevent the worst effects of climate change. Our new Net Zero by 2030 goal includes a 50% absolute reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions and a 13.5% absolute reduction in our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions.
•New TCFD Framework: Based upon feedback from the investment community, we have added the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) framework, in addition to using The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (“SASBs”) framework, to our Impact reporting. You can find this disclosure on pages 32-35 herein.
Looking forward, we have more exciting business strategy-aligned Impact work in the pipeline. Below are details of our economic and social pillars, including longer term diversity goals for Etsy and Reverb, and additional goals related to marketplace and supply chain sustainability and diversity.
19
Table of Contents

Economic Impact				2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Create and grow economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs.
Target: Double U.S. Etsy sellers’ economic output by 2023.


Expanding our Economic Impact
Target Met:
In 2020, Etsy met and exceeded its 2018 goal of doubling sellers’ economic impact by 2023.*
In 2020, Etsy sellers:
- Contributed $13 billion to the U.S. economy, a 142% increase from our baseline of $5.37 billion in 2018;
- Created 2.6 million jobs in the independent worker economy, enough jobs to employ the entire city of Houston, Texas;**
- Generated nearly $4 billion in income for sellers; and
- Produced $6.8 billion in additional economic value by harnessing their creativity and bringing unique products to market.
* To calculate these results, Etsy commissioned its third economic impact study with ECONorthwest, an independent economic consulting firm, to explore the ways Etsy sellers in the United States contribute to the national economic landscape.
** Houston, Texas has a population of 2.3 million.


Create and grow economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs.

Target:
Set a new target and establish a baseline for delivering economic empowerment to our sellers.


Foster economic and personal empowerment among our stakeholders.
Target: Invest in social programs that:
- promote economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs and
- provide musical education to people in need (Reverb).


Philanthropy
In 2020, we invested over $2.6 million in charitable gifts, which supported community organizations and programs:
- to enable creative entrepreneurship,
- to advance racial justice,
- to help those most impacted by the pandemic (including with personal protection equipment and grants), and
- to provide natural disaster relief to Etsy sellers.
We also expanded our employee matching program from $500 to $750 matched annually and, through Reverb Gives, supported musical education initiatives globally.

Community Engagement
Collectively, Etsy employees donated over 2,000 hours of volunteer time in their communities through Etsy’s Impact Hours program, which gives all employees up to 40 hours per year to volunteer.


Foster economic and personal empowerment among our stakeholders.

Target:
Invest in social programs that:
- promote economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs and
- provide musical education to people in need (Reverb).
 
20
Table of Contents

Economic Impact (continued)				2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Advocate for public policies that advance our commitments to economic empowerment, equity, and ecological sustainability.
Target: Advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs.

Advocating for Creative Entrepreneurs
In 2020, we continued our advocacy for public policies that enable creative entrepreneurs to start and grow their businesses, including COVID-19 relief for the self-employed and sole proprietors, support for the United States Postal Service, portable benefits, and sensible platform regulation. We also supported public policies to reduce carbon emissions in the transportation and logistics sector, as well as economic justice policies to support microbusinesses operated by women, indigenous community members, and people of color.

Activating the Power of Etsy Sellers
Over 88,000 Etsy sellers advocated on the above issues in Washington, D.C., California, Brussels, France, and the United Kingdom and generated over 333,000 messages to lawmakers on behalf of our community.


Advocate for public policies that advance our commitments to economic empowerment, equity, and ecological sustainability.

Target:
Advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs.

 

21
Table of Contents

Social Impact
2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Build diverse and inclusive workforces that are broadly representative of their communities.
Targets:
- Approximately double the percentage of Black and Latinx employees at Etsy by 2023.
- Set a baseline and goals for Reverb’s performance and pay practices, hiring rubric, and diversity, equity, and inclusion strategy.

Expanding our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (“DEI”) Efforts
We continued to expand our robust Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion program while pivoting all of our hiring, engagement, mentorship, sponsorship, and Employee Resource Group (“ERG”) program activities to a remote environment. We drew strength from our programmatic commitments and demonstrated progress during worldwide protests against police violence and racial inequality in May, June, and July 2020.

Attracting Diverse Talent with a Focus on Leadership Representation
In 2020, we deepened our work to recruit underrepresented minority (“URM”) candidates, and we amplified our employer brand awareness efforts. As a result, this year Black, Latinx, and Native American people now comprise 8.6% of Etsy and Reverb’s combined leadership-level workforce, up from 4.5% in 2019.

Progress on our DEI Goals
We made progress on the goal we set in 2018 to double the percentage of Black, Latinx, and Native American employees at Etsy by 2023. In 2020, Black, Latinx, and Native American people constituted 20.0% of U.S. Etsy hires. As a result, Black, Latinx, and Native American people now make up 12.5% of Etsy’s (excluding Reverb) U.S. workforce, up from 8.6% in 2018 and 11% in 2019.
Our 2020 DEI goal for Reverb was to study that business and set baseline DEI goals for Reverb, which we did. This is to approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees who identify as Black, Indigenous, or a Person of Color (collectively, “BIPOC”), and to reach gender parity.

Employee Engagement and Retention
We launched the second cohort of our Mentorship Circle Program, an Engineering Sponsorship program for women and underrepresented minority engineers, launched a Company-wide DEI learning platform called Blue Ocean Brain, held community-wide vigils for Black Lives Matter, created grief circles and extra mental health benefits for struggling employees, held anti-racism workshops for parents, created flexible schedules and paid time off options for employees who had expanded caregiving responsibilities due to the pandemic, and donated $1 million to support Black-led organizations that support racial justice, voting rights, and criminal justice reform.

Pay Equity
We continued to invest in fair pay practices, and saw positive results in our 2020 Pay Equity analysis, which was conducted by a third-party consulting firm. The analysis found no unexplained pay gaps adverse to women or employees from other marginalized genders, or non-white employees. This was consistent with the findings of our 2018 analysis.


Build diverse and inclusive workforces that are broadly representative of their communities.

Targets:
- Approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees at Etsy who identify as Black, Latinx, or Native American by 2023.

Reverb:
Approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees at Reverb who identify as BIPOC by 2026 (from 16.5% to at least 33% by 2026).
- Reach gender parity at Reverb by 2026 (increasing women and marginalized genders from 29.3% to at least 50% by 2026).


 
22
Table of Contents

Social Impact (continued)
2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to our company and our vendors.
Target: Ensure at least 50% of Etsy’s small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers are owned by women, minorities, or veterans by 2022.

Supply Chain Responsibility
Through our supplier vetting program, we collected impact data from 59% of Etsy’s suppliers, representing 84% of Etsy’s supplier spend in 2020, and we continued to track our supply chain impact across key indicators. Of suppliers who have provided information through our impact survey, we found that:
- 81% of Etsy’s spend went to companies that have set a greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal; and
- 43% of Etsy’s small and medium-sized suppliers (sole proprietors up to 250 employees) are owned by women, minorities, or veterans.
We will continue to enhance data collection protocols to increase coverage across more of our full supply chain.

Supplier Diversity
In line with Etsy’s commitment to enable equitable access to economic opportunities, we are taking meaningful steps to ensure we have diverse representation across our supply chain. Etsy’s plans to increase the percentage of women-, minority-, and veteran-owned businesses in our supply chain were disrupted in 2020 by the closure of our offices and cancellation of in-person business activities, which in turn disrupted many of our supplier purchases. This led to a decrease in the percentage of women-, minority-, and veteran-owned small- and medium-sized suppliers that we engaged relative to our 2019 baseline. To address the negative impact COVID-19 had on our small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers, we created a COVID-19 economic relief fund for our suppliers and distributed $100,000 in grant funding to these suppliers, with prioritization going to women-, minority-, and veteran-owned businesses. We also provided small business suppliers with information on how to access COVID-19-related relief funding and support. As we resume in-person business activity, we will continue our work to ensure that by 2022 at least 50% of Etsy’s small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers are owned by women, minorities, or veterans. We believe there is a pathway to achieve our target, but it is largely dependent on our ability to resume in-person activities, including in-office events, employee programs, and in-person marketing activities.

Outsourcing Vendor Labor Practices
In 2020, we automated the data collection and assessment of employment practices for Etsy suppliers that provide full-time contractors to support Etsy. We consolidated findings related to their wage, paid leave, and benefits practices and conducted research to inform a future employment practice standard.

Sustainable Supply Chain
In an effort to understand and influence the sustainability of our supply chain, we added purchased goods and services to our greenhouse gas inventory this year. In 2020, emissions from our corporate supply chain were 42,646 tCO2e, or 10.5% of our total footprint. We plan to leverage our negotiating power in our supply chain agreements to contribute to our new Net Zero by 2030 goal.

Influencing Suppliers to Improve their Social, Environmental, and Economic Practices
As our purchasing power grows, our ability to influence our suppliers to address pressing social, economic, and environmental challenges also grows. We have always tried to use this leverage to make meaningful progress across our key impact areas. In 2020, we focused on influencing vendors to improve practices, including: (1) wage, benefits, and paid leave standards for their employees; (2) environmentally responsible methods for producing goods and services; and, (3) policies that promote more inclusive workforces.


Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to our company and our vendors.

Targets:
- Ensure at least 50% of Etsy’s small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers are owned by women, minorities, or veterans by 2022.
- Achieve a 13.5% absolute reduction in our carbon footprint from purchased goods and services by 2030.

 
23
Table of Contents

Social Impact (continued)
2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Ensure our marketplaces are diverse, welcoming, and inclusive places to sell and shop.
Target: By 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace diversity and inclusivity.

Inclusive Marketing
In 2020, we worked to ensure that the images we proactively created and shared in our marketplace were representative of the communities in which we live by committing to a policy to include at least 30% representation of black or brown skin tones in marketing assets. In the fourth quarter of 2020, 59% of the images with a human element developed by our creative team had black or brown skin tone representation. Our award-winning Gift Like You Mean It ad campaign, which aired across the United States during the holiday season, showcased our commitment to diversity and inclusion by featuring Black, Latinx, and LGBTQ community members and storylines, as well as people with disabilities.

Highlighting Diversity as a Core Component of our Brand
We embedded diversity into our everyday work to highlight that it is a core component of who Etsy is as a brand and company. We featured and celebrated Black and Latinx owned shops during a time when supporting small businesses was more important than ever before, and we created a Black-owned Business Etsy Community where sellers can opt-in, build community, and support one another.


Ensure our marketplaces are diverse, welcoming, and inclusive places to sell and shop.

Target:
In 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace impact.
 
24
Table of Contents

Ecological Impact				2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Achieve best-in-class sustainable operations by sourcing 100% renewable electricity, reducing the intensity of our energy use, and running zero waste operations.
Targets:
- Source 100% of Etsy’s electricity from renewable sources by 2020.
- Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of Etsy’s energy use by 2025.
- Maintain a 90% waste diversion rate across global operations.

Renewable Electricity
Target met:
We met our goal to source 100% of our electricity from renewable energy by 2020. This was up from 76% in 2019. This includes electricity used to power Etsy and Reverb’s global offices, remote electricity used by employees working from home in the United States as a result of COVID-19, and Etsy.com’s computing load in colocated data centers and Google Cloud.

Energy Use
In 2020, our total operational energy footprint was 13,138 MWh, of which 61% was from electricity. Because our offices were closed for much of the year due to COVID-19, we included estimations of remote energy use for employees working from home totaling 4,482 MWh.
Our colocated data centers accounted for 1,506 MWh, and we estimate our energy consumption from Google Cloud in 2020 to be 4,169 MWh. In total our energy use for computing was 43% of our total energy use in 2020.
To address data availability challenges associated with allocating energy consumption from the cloud, Etsy developed an estimation methodology to account for our Google Cloud computing footprint, which has been reviewed by industry experts. Quantification of our cloud energy consumption is allowing us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. We shared this estimation methodology publicly in 2020. By making this methodology public, we hope to make it easier for peers to use and build on this approach, and to drive transparency, accountability, and progress in efficient computing.

Energy Efficiency
Our 2020 office energy footprint was 2,981 MWh. In offices where Etsy maintains operational control, we achieved a 48% reduction in energy intensity (kWh per square foot) across our global operations based on a 2016 baseline. While our efficiency work has driven significant progress since 2016, the magnitude of this reduction was due to COVID-19 office closures.
For computing energy use, we achieved a 23% reduction in total energy use between 2018 and 2020, despite substantial growth in our business over the same time period.

Diversion from Landfill
In 2020, Etsy achieved zero waste operations for the third year in a row by diverting over 90% of waste from landfill. In 2020, we diverted 93% of waste generated from office and data center operations from landfill.


Achieve best-in-class sustainable operations by sourcing 100% renewable electricity, reducing the intensity of our energy use, and running zero waste operations.

Targets:
- Continue to source 100% of electricity from renewable sources.
- Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use by 2025.
- Maintain zero waste across global operations for Etsy.
- Run zero waste operations at Reverb by 2025.

 
25
Table of Contents

Ecological Impact (continued)				2020 Goals	2020 Progress	2021 Goals	

Run a carbon neutral business.
Target: Offset 100% of measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions.


Running a Carbon Neutral Business
Target Met:
We have run a carbon neutral business since we launched carbon-offset shipping in 2019. For 2020, we invested in 404,737 verified emissions reductions (“VERs”), protecting forests, sponsoring wind and solar farms, and developing greener methods for producing auto parts. Being carbon neutral allows us to take immediate action to balance our footprint while we work toward long-term reductions in our value chain as a part of our new Net Zero by 2030 goal.

Expanding Accountability for our Carbon Footprint
Each year we evaluate our corporate greenhouse gas boundary to ensure that we are taking responsibility for the climate change impacts of our business. Our approach is to be as comprehensive and transparent as possible. That’s why we have expanded our inventory to account for the greenhouse gas impacts from: (1) the packaging our sellers use to ship products to buyers, (2) the energy use of our platforms on consumer devices, and (3) our supply chain. Our full greenhouse gas inventory can be seen below in our SASB disclosure.

Advocating for Climate-Friendly E-commerce
We take action in support of policy solutions that will help to drive carbon reduction in the long term. In 2020, we prioritized advocating for ambitious regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector and drive significant market transformation. We are especially focused on electrification infrastructure and heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that play an important role in e-commerce logistics. We continue to collaborate with peers, vendors, and NGOs on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector.


Achieve Net Zero by 2030 and run a carbon neutral business now.

Targets:
- 50% absolute reduction in Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
- 13.5% absolute reduction in Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030.
- Offset 100% of measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions annually.


Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably-minded shoppers and conscious living.
Target: By 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace sustainability.

Adding a Local Seller Signal
We added a “local seller” signal to listing pages when the buyer is in the same ship-from region as the item. Local purchases can play a significant role in reducing our carbon footprint from shipping. Buyers appreciated being able to shop locally too; we saw a conversion rate increase upon adding the local signal.

A Holistic Approach to Marketplace Impact
As we undertook work on this goal in 2020, we realized that the positive impact our marketplace can drive should not be evaluated through a single-issue lens. Instead the potential to leverage our marketplace for meaningful impact is best realized at the intersection of our three strategic Impact pillars - economic, social, ecological. That’s why in 2021 we will continue the work we started this year to develop a more holistic approach to marketplace impact that is integrated across our teams.


Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably-minded shoppers and conscious living.

Target:
In 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace impact.
 

26
Table of Contents

Our mission is to “Keep Commerce Human.” Our DEI goals are integral to who we are as a company: namely, a marketplace and a workplace that are made stronger by the unique and special qualities of our communities.
We are committed to transparent reporting on workforce diversity. All metrics below are as of December 31 of the stated year. Overall metrics include all employees globally. Leadership is defined as Director level and above. Engineering employees are defined as those employees who work within the Engineering Job Family Group. Tech employees are defined as those employees who work on Product, Engineering, Analytics and HR Information and Financial Systems Administration teams. Other Business Roles are defined as those employees who work in roles outside of the Tech definition, inclusive of non-tech Leadership positions. Gender and age metrics represent our global employee base, while race and ethnicity metrics represent U.S. employees only. 2019 and 2020 metrics include both Etsy and Reverb employees, while metrics from 2018 do not include Reverb employees.

Our Board of Directors also affirmed its dedication to diversity in 2020, committing to actively seek out diverse director candidates to include in the pool from which Board nominees are chosen. Etsy will provide additional disclosures on Board diversity in our Proxy Statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

etsy-20201231_g17.jpg
Board	Overall	Leadership	Tech	Engineering	Other Business Roles 
† Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics as of December 31, 2020. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.
‡ Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.

27
Table of Contents

Race & Ethnicity Metrics - U.S. Only
Board	Overall	Leadership	Tech	Engineering	Other Business Roles		2020	2018‡	2019‡	2020†	2018‡	2019‡	2020†	2018‡	2019‡	2020†	2018‡	2019‡	2020†	2018‡	2019‡	2020†	American Indian or Alaska Native	—%	0.1%	0.1%	0.2%	—%	—%	0.7%	—%	—%	0.1%	—%	—%	—%	0.3%	0.2%	0.2%	Asian	—%	16.5%	15.3%	17.5%	19.3%	15.5%	14.4%	22.6%	21.1%	25.6%	21.9%	20%	22.6%	8.5%	7.7%	8%	Black/African American	12.5%	3.7%	5.2%	5.9%	3.4%	2.7%	5.8%	2.6%	4.6%	5%	3.2%	5.1%	5.5%	5.5%	5.9%	7.2%	Hispanic	—%	4.8%	5.2%	6.1%	—%	1.8%	2.2%	4.7%	4.7%	4.6%	5.1%	5.5%	5.5%	5.2%	5.7%	8%	Two or More Races	—%	2.8%	3.1%	3.4%	2.3%	2.7%	3.6%	3%	3.6%	4.2%	3.2%	4.1%	4.4%	2.7%	2.4%	2.5%	White	87.5%	67.0%	64.6%	63.0%	75%	72.7%	71.9%	60.8%	58.8%	56.4%	60.8%	58.4%	57.5%	74.8%	72.1%	70.6%	Not Declared	—%	5.1%	6.5%	3.8%	—%	4.6%	1.4%	6.3%	7.2%	4%	5.8%	6.9%	4.6%	3%	6%	3.3% 

Age Metrics - Global
2018‡	2019‡	2020†	24 years and younger	5.3%	4.3%	3.3%	25-29 years	27.9%	27.6%	25.3%	30-34 years	32.2%	34.9%	33.8%	35-39 years	20.8%	19.5%	21.4%	40-49 years	11.1%	11.0%	12.9%	50+ years	2.7%	2.7%	3.3% 

† Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics as of December 31, 2020. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.
‡ Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.

28
Table of Contents

SASB Disclosure

The Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s (SASB) mission is to develop sustainability metrics for public corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. Etsy’s disclosures are designed to provide comparable and consistent data. We have included below the metrics from SASB’s Consumer Goods Sector – E-Commerce industry standard that are relevant to our business.
SASB Metrics	SASB Code	Metric	2018	2019	2020	CG-EC-000.A	Entity-defined measure of user activity	Active buyers (thousands)	39,447	46,351	81,898		Active sellers (thousands)	2,115	2,699	4,365	

CG-EC-000.B

Data processing capacity

•In December 2017, Etsy announced our Google Cloud Partnership, an initiative to transition Etsy.com infrastructure to Google Cloud Platform (“GCP”).
•In February 2020, we completed our full migration to GCP.
•We believe this transition will result in increased engineering efficiency, and enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble fulfillment to capacity on an as needed basis.

Percentage outsourced		100%	100%	100%							Hardware Infrastructure Energy & Water Management	CG-EC-130a.1	Total energy consumed, MWh	7,330	6,376	5,675		Percentage renewable energy	65%	89%	100%		Percentage grid electricity	100%	100%	100%	

CG-EC-130a.3

Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic planning for data center needs.
•In 2020 we met our goal to source 100% renewable electricity for our operations, and we have a 2025 goal to reduce the intensity of our energy use by 25%. These goals are included as key considerations as we plan for our computing needs, and have been a focus of our sustainability efforts. When transitioning to a cloud computing infrastructure, we selected Google Cloud, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity. Their highly efficient data centers are expected to help us save significant overhead energy. Moreover, moving to flexible cloud-based infrastructure has enabled us to reduce energy consumption. We achieved a 23% reduction in total energy use from computing between 2018 and 2020, despite substantial growth in our business over the same time period.
•We actively monitor and manage energy consumption from our computing infrastructure. In 2020, our collocated data centers consumed 1,506 MWh and we estimate that our energy consumption in Google Cloud was 4,169 MWh, based on a methodology developed by Etsy and reviewed by industry experts. Quantification of our cloud energy consumption is allowing us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. Our 2020 hardware infrastructure footprint does not include Reverb, but we plan to include Reverb’s energy used from computing in our 2021 analysis.
•In 2018, Etsy entered into a virtual power purchase agreement for solar energy in Virginia. This project is providing us with renewable attributes to apply to our operations and computing infrastructure, furthering our goals of creating a cleaner internet and reducing our impact on the planet.

Data Privacy and Advertising Standards	

CG-EC-220a.2

Description of the policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy.
•We care deeply about privacy and we’re committed to being upfront about our privacy practices, including how we treat personal information. Etsy’s Privacy Policy provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices. Etsy’s transparency report also includes details of our Privacy Principles.
•Among other things, our Privacy Policy covers the user information that Etsy collects or receives, the choices and control that a user has in relation to this data including based on type and sensitivity by region and worldwide, the purpose for which Etsy uses such information (including first and third party advertising purposes), our policies relating to our usage and sharing within Etsy, its affiliates and third party partners, disclosures about third party partner privacy policy and options, and user controls for sharing and controlling such information with third parties.

 
29
Table of Contents

SASB Metrics	SASB Code	Metric	2018	2019	2020	Data Security	

CG-EC-230a.1

Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks.
•Data security is overseen by our Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) who reports to our Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”).
•We strive to protect sensitive information through various means, such as technical safeguards, procedural requirements and policies, an intensive program of monitoring on both our web platform and within our corporate network, continuous testing of aspects of our security posture internally and with outside vendors, a robust incident response program, and regular training for employees.

Employee Recruitment, Inclusion and Performance	CG-EC-330a.1	Employee engagement as a percentage (Etsy)	70%	76%	81%		Employee engagement as a percentage (Reverb)			75%		

Employee engagement as a percentage and discussion of methodology.
•In September 2020, Etsy conducted an engagement survey of all global employees. Of all employees surveyed across Etsy and Reverb, 92% submitted a response, and 81% of Etsy respondents and 75% of Reverb respondents reported favorable employee engagement. The survey was conducted through the Culture Amp platform and consisted of 57 questions - 53 rating questions on which employees were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a statement based on a five-point scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree, two free-text questions to which employees were asked to write out a response, and two demographic questions.
•The responses were analyzed against the results from a similar survey conducted in 2019, as well as Culture Amp’s 2020 New Tech - 500+ Benchmark, which consists of survey results from approximately 650 companies that are primarily internet-based or focused on creating new technologies, and that have between 500 and 5,000 employees.

CG-EC-330a.3
Gender and racial/ethnic group representation for leadership, technical staff and other business functions	See Impact Strategy section for detailed metrics.	Discussion of diversity and inclusion strategy and performance	See Impact Strategy - Social Impact for details.	CG-EC-330a.4	Percentage of technical employees who are H-1B visa holders	2.5%	3.5%	5.1%	Product Packaging and Distribution	CG-EC-410a.1	
Total greenhouse gas (“GHG”) footprint of product shipments in metric tons CO2e
135,459‡	154,078‡	303,218†	
Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of packaging in metric tons CO2e
53,489†	

CG-EC-410a.2

Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of product delivery.
•The delivery of products sold on our marketplace represents the majority of Etsy’s carbon footprint. As a peer-to-peer marketplace, Etsy does not directly control seller shipping or the associated logistics networks; however, we are committed to addressing carbon emissions from shipping.
•In 2019, we announced immediate action to balance our footprint by offsetting 100% of our emissions generated from Etsy.com shipping through investment in verified emissions reductions. In April 2020, we announced 100% carbon-offset shipping for Reverb.com.
•We added a “local seller” signal to listing pages when the buyer is in the same ship-from region as the item. Local purchases can play a significant role in reducing our carbon footprint from shipping.
•In addition, we take action in support of policy solutions that will help to drive carbon reduction from product delivery in the long term. In 2020, we prioritized advocating for ambitious regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector and drive significant market transformation. We are especially focused on electrification infrastructure and heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that play an important role in e-commerce logistics.
•We continue to collaborate with peers, vendors, and NGOs on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector.

 
30
Table of Contents

Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Emissions Summary (tCO2e)
2018	2019	2020	GHG Emissions by Scope				Scope 1	372‡	371‡	294†	Scope 2 - Market	1,213‡	652‡	4†	Scope 2 - Location	2,923‡	1,859‡	914†	Scope 3 - Market	137,042	155,967	404,439	Scope 3 - Location	137,042	155,967	407,021	Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Activity Source				Category 1: Purchased Goods & Services				Purchased Goods & Services			42,646†	Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations				Waste	6	13	3	Water	3	6	9	Category 6: Business Travel				Air Travel	943‡	1,217‡	153†	Other Business Travel			10	Category 7: Employee Commuting				Commuting	544	510	111	Remote Workers - Market			672	Remote Workers - Location	87	114	1,136	Category 8: Upstream Leased Assets				Cloud Computing - Market (Etsy only)		29‡	0†	Cloud Computing - Location (Etsy only)			2,355†	Category 9: Downstream Transportation & Distribution				Shipping	135,459‡	154,078‡	303,218†	Packaging			53,489†	Category 11: Use of Sold Products				End User Energy Use - Market			4,127†	End User Energy Use - Location			3,890†	Our 2020 greenhouse gas emissions include both Etsy and Reverb, unless otherwise stated. Our 2019 greenhouse gas emissions include both Etsy and Reverb, except for Shipping and Cloud Computing. Reverb’s footprint has been accounted for from the date of acquisition in 2019 forward. Our 2018 greenhouse gas emissions include only Etsy. Etsy has included emissions generated from our colocated data centers as Scope 2 emissions, consistent with prior years. Emissions generated from cloud computing are classified as Scope 3 - Category 8 emissions. In 2020, we expanded our inventory to account for the Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions from: (1) The packaging our sellers use to ship products to buyers, (2) the use of our platforms on consumers’ personal devices, and (3) our corporate supply chain. 


† Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our carbon and energy metrics for the period from January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2020. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com.
‡ Metrics for which historical data has also been subject to previous attest procedures.
31
Table of Contents

The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures
The Financial Stability Board established the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”), which is committed to market transparency and stability, to develop recommendations for more effective climate-related disclosures. Beginning this year, Etsy is providing enhanced climate-related disclosures using the TCFD framework. The following table summarizes specific information that addresses the disclosures recommended in the TCFD, including the publicly available source where each disclosure is referenced. Etsy plans to leverage the TCFD framework and recommendations as we continue our focus on climate-related disclosures and management.
Core Elements	TCFD Disclosure Recommendation	Disclosure	

Governance

a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

Etsy’s Board is responsible for reviewing and approving Etsy’s Annual Operating Plan, which includes both climate-related strategy, goals and targets, and associated budgets required to meet those goals.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, within its charter, has responsibility for the periodic review of progress against the company's economic, social and ecological impact goals, which includes climate-related issues.
The Audit Committee of the Board oversees Etsy’s 10-K disclosure, which includes our climate-related and impact disclosures.


b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities

Etsy’s annual Impact goals are set by our Executive Team at the corporate level, aligned with its three Pillars of economic, social and ecological activities. Within these pillars, the Executive Team sets specific and measurable goals.
Etsy also has a Risk Steering Committee, a cross functional team that meets at least quarterly and is responsible for the management and oversight of key financial, operational, legal and strategic risks facing Etsy, including any risks that are climate-related.
Etsy’s Impact Committee meets monthly to set and drive company-wide impact strategy, including our climate-related goals. It ensures organization-wide internal and external accountability for climate-related goals. The Impact Committee also assesses climate-related issues and develops management plans to address these issues accordingly. The Impact Committee includes cross-functional membership from major business functions at Etsy, including legal, workplace, strategic sourcing, sustainability, advocacy, product analytics, marketing, public relations, and investor relations.
Etsy’s Impact Committee provides periodic updates to the Risk Steering Committee and the Etsy board.

 
32
Table of Contents

Core Elements	TCFD Disclosure Recommendation	Disclosure	

Strategy

a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term

Etsy’s Sustainability and Legal/Advocacy teams help to assess regulatory issues associated with current or emerging climate-related legislation and the potential impacts on Etsy's ability to meet our short and long-term goals. These teams, as well as the Impact Committee and our Executive Team, also monitor ESG trends, market trends, and other issues that might impact Etsy's brand and reputation. Etsy considers ESG risks and opportunities in the short-term (0-1 years), medium-term (1-3 years), and long-term (3-5 years).
In our ESG risk analysis, Etsy considers both transitional and physical risks. Transitional risks include the assessment of current and emerging regulatory, technology, legal, market, and reputational risks. Physical risk assessment includes both acute and chronic risks. Etsy considers natural disasters and other weather and climate-related risks, which could impact operations, internet or mobile networks, or the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers.
Etsy has identified climate-related opportunities in the short term (0-1 years) that may have financial or strategic impacts on the business, including participation in renewable energy programs and adopting energy-efficiency measures, using lower-emission sources of energy, and being prepared for any climate-related shift in consumer preferences.


b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organization’s businesses, strategy, and financial planning

Etsy evaluates climate-related risks and opportunities across the value chain including direct operations, upstream, and downstream. This evaluation is integrated into a multi-disciplinary company-wide risk management process. We conduct interviews and roundtable discussions with internal stakeholders across the business to gather perspectives on these factors and associated strategies. Assessment of size and scope, and risk management strategy is overseen by the Risk Steering Committee.
At this time, we have not identified near-term climate-related risks with the potential to have a substantive financial or strategic impact on our business. Etsy's buyer and seller base is distributed globally, and as a two-sided marketplace we are not directly responsible for production of goods sold or for holding inventory. We will continue to look at additional ways to incorporate assessment of these factors in our risk management processes.


c) Describe the resilience of the organization’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2 degree or lower scenario

Etsy has set a long-term carbon reduction goal aligned with science to be Net Zero by 2030, which includes absolute reduction targets for Scope 1, 2, and 3. We are currently undertaking exploratory research to understand the best way to apply climate-related scenario analysis to inform business strategy. The Etsy Impact Committee and Sustainability team continue to coordinate with other teams to determine the appropriate scope of this analysis, involving a preliminary exploration of how climate change will impact Etsy and its community. We plan to use this research to inform relevant scenario selection for broader analysis, and evaluate impacts accordingly, including potential opportunities for our business.
We also take action in support of policy solutions that will help to drive carbon reduction in the long term. In 2020, we prioritized advocating for ambitious regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector and drive significant market transformation. We are especially focused on policies to improve the electrification infrastructure and to reduce emissions for heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that play an important role in e-commerce logistics.

 
33
Table of Contents

Core Elements	TCFD Disclosure Recommendation	Disclosure	

Risk Management

a) Describe the organization’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks

The Etsy Sustainability team, along with others in relevant functions within the Company, evaluates climate-related risks and opportunities, analyzes them in the context of our business, develops recommendations as appropriate, and escalates them for oversight senior management. For example, the Sustainability team has conducted a geographic analysis in selected geographic segments of projected physical climate impacts on Etsy sellers and buyers.
The Sustainability team, in consultation with the Legal/Advocacy team, assesses regulatory issues associated with current or emerging climate-related legislation.


b) Describe the organization’s processes for managing climate-related risks

The Sustainability team, in addition to their role outlined in Section (a) above, develops management plans to address these issues accordingly.


c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organization’s overall risk management

Etsy’s Impact Committee is a cross-functional group with representation from major business functions across the company, including: legal, workplace, strategic sourcing, sustainability, advocacy, product analytics, marketing, public relations, and investor relations. This ensures that climate-related issues are considered strategically and integrated throughout the business, as appropriate.
Since 2018, Etsy has used an integrated annual report structure, and has included ESG-related topics in our Annual Reports and Proxy Statements. These reporting structures ensure that climate-related issues are considered holistically from a risk and opportunity perspective by a cross-functional group and are appropriately elevated to senior management through defined channels.

 
34
Table of Contents

Core Elements	TCFD Disclosure Recommendation	Disclosure	

Metrics and Targets

a) Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process

Etsy tracks climate-related metrics related to total energy consumed, percentage renewable, percentage grid electricity, total GHG footprint of scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions including product shipments, packaging, end user energy use, water, and outgoing waste material streams. For a historical view on our metrics, please view pages 29-31 of this Integrated Annual Report.
As a result of offsetting 100% of carbon emissions across all measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 categories, Etsy.com became a carbon neutral business and put an internal price on our emissions, creating a financial incentive to support decisions through the business that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, from driving operational efficiencies to integrating sustainability into our procurement process.
We continue to act in support of solutions that will help drive carbon reduction in the long term, including advocating at the federal and state level for comprehensive climate and carbon reduction policies and collaborating with peers on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector.
For all teams at Etsy, compensation is tied to the company’s financial performance, as well as individual employee contributions. While responsibility for delivering on our impact goals is distributed across the company, each goal owner is responsible for ensuring that the work associated with advancing their goal is incorporated into team members’ individual goals, which is in turn directly tied to compensation. The annual performance goals of our Executive Team are often directly tied to some of our Impact goals. They also serve as executive sponsors for specific goals to help ensure that teams stay on track and have the value of executive leadership and expertise as plans are executed.


b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks


Please view pages 29-31 of this Integrated Annual Report for our Greenhouse Gas (“GHG”) Emissions Summary.


c) Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets

Our climate-related targets include:
•Achieve Net Zero by 2030 through a 50% absolute reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions and a 13.5% absolute reduction in our Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. This target is aligned with current climate science.
•Continue to source 100% of Etsy’s electricity from renewable sources. This is an absolute-based target set from a 2016 base year.
•Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of Etsy’s energy use by 2025. This is an intensity-based target set from a 2016 base year.
•Maintain a 90% waste diversion rate across global operations. This is an intensity-based target set from a 2017 base year.

 


35
Table of Contents

Competition
Sellers can list their goods for sale with online retailers or sell their goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover their goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling sellers to sell from their own website or otherwise run their business independently of our platform. We are able to compete for sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence, the number and engagement of buyers, our seller tools and services, our seller education resources, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community, and our values.
We also compete with retailers for the attention of the buyer. A buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces or national retail chains or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for buyers based on the unique goods that sellers list in our marketplaces, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, customer service, our reputation for trustworthiness, our mobile apps, the availability of fair and free shipping offered by sellers, ease of payment, and the availability and reliability of our platform.
Intellectual Property
Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, in the United States and abroad. We also use confidentiality procedures, defensive licensing and acquisitions, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights to protect us and our intellectual property.
We file patents and register domain names, trademarks, copyrights, and service marks in the United States and abroad. We rely upon unregistered copyrights and common law protection for certain trademarks. We also use internal and external brand protection mechanisms that are intended to protect our brands from misuse by third parties.
Government Regulation
As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national, and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Compliance is costly and can require changes to our business practices and significant amounts of management time and focus. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, federal and state laws in the United States, E.U. directives, and other national laws govern the processing of payments, consumer protection, and the privacy of consumer information; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. The growing focus on data privacy and regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on sellers and could subject us to significant operational costs for internal compliance and risk to our business. In addition, some of these requirements may introduce friction into the buying and selling experience on our platform and may impact the scope and effectiveness of our marketing efforts, which could negatively impact our business and future outlook. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-corruption, and export control laws. Non-compliance with any applicable laws and regulations could result in penalties or significant legal liability. See “Risk Factors—Regulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks.”
36
Table of Contents

Available Information
We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”), and file or furnish reports, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). These reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report and investors should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com or by calling (347) 382-7582.
Our SEC reports are also available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC.