General
Evergy, Inc., Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. and Evergy Metro, Inc. are separate registrants filing this combined annual report on Form 10-K. The terms "Evergy," "Evergy Kansas Central," "Evergy Metro" and "Evergy Companies" are used throughout this report. "Evergy" refers to Evergy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Kansas Central" refers to Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Metro" refers to Evergy Metro, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. "Evergy Companies" refers to Evergy, Evergy Kansas Central, and Evergy Metro, collectively, which are individual registrants within the Evergy consolidated group.
Information in other Items of this report as to which reference is made in this Item 1 is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 1. The use of terms such as "see" or "refer to" shall be deemed to incorporate into this Item 1 the information to which such reference is made.
EVERGY, INC.
Evergy is a public utility holding company incorporated in 2017 and headquartered in Kansas City, Missouri. Evergy operates primarily through the following wholly-owned direct subsidiaries listed below.
•Evergy Kansas Central, Inc. (Evergy Kansas Central) is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Kansas. Evergy Kansas Central has one active wholly-owned subsidiary with significant operations, Evergy Kansas South, Inc. (Evergy Kansas South).
•Evergy Metro, Inc. (Evergy Metro) is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the states of Missouri and Kansas.
•Evergy Missouri West, Inc. (Evergy Missouri West) is an integrated, regulated electric utility that provides electricity to customers in the state of Missouri.
•Evergy Transmission Company, LLC (Evergy Transmission Company) owns 13.5% of Transource Energy, LLC (Transource) with the remaining 86.5% owned by AEP Transmission Holding Company, LLC, a subsidiary of American Electric Power Company, Inc. (AEP). Transource is focused on the development of competitive electric transmission projects. Evergy Transmission Company accounts for its investment in Transource under the equity method.
Evergy Kansas Central also owns a 50% interest in Prairie Wind Transmission, LLC (Prairie Wind), which is a joint venture between Evergy Kansas Central and subsidiaries of AEP and Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company. Prairie Wind owns a 108-mile, 345 kilovolt (kV) double-circuit transmission line that provides transmission service in the Southwest Power Pool, Inc. (SPP). Evergy Kansas Central accounts for its investment in Prairie Wind under the equity method.
Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Kansas South, Evergy Metro, and Evergy Missouri West conduct business in their respective service territories using the name Evergy. The Evergy Companies assess financial performance and allocate resources on a consolidated basis (i.e., operates in one segment). Evergy serves approximately 1,620,400 customers located in Kansas and Missouri. Customers include approximately 1,421,800 residences, 191,700 commercial firms and 6,900 industrials, municipalities and other electric utilities. Evergy is significantly impacted by seasonality with approximately one-third of its retail revenues recorded in the third quarter.
7
Table of Contents
The table below summarizes the percentage of Evergy's revenues by customer classification.
2020		2019		2018	Residential	39%		37%		37%	Commercial	33%		35%		32%	Industrial	12%		12%		12%	Wholesale	5%		7%		10%	Transmission	6%		6%		7%	Other	5%		3%		2%	Total	100%		100%		100% 
The table below summarizes the percentage of Evergy's retail electricity sales by customer class.
2020		2019		2018	Residential	38%		36%		37%	Commercial	42%		43%		41%	Industrial	20%		21%		22%	Total	100%		100%		100% 
Regulation
Evergy Kansas Central's and Evergy Metro's Kansas operations are regulated by the State Corporation Commission of the State of Kansas (KCC) and Evergy Metro's Missouri operations and Evergy Missouri West are regulated by the Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri (MPSC), in each case with respect to retail rates, certain accounting matters, standards of service and, in certain cases, the issuance of securities, certification of facilities and service territories. The Evergy Companies are also subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) with respect to transmission, wholesale sales and rates and other matters. Evergy has an indirect 94% ownership interest in Wolf Creek Generating Station (Wolf Creek), which is subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) with respect to licensing, operations and safety-related requirements.
The table below summarizes the rate orders in effect for Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's retail rate jurisdictions.
Regulator	Allowed Return on Equity	Rate-Making Equity Ratio	Effective Date	
Evergy Kansas Central (a)
KCC	9.3%	51.46%	September 2018	Evergy Metro - Kansas	KCC	9.3%	49.09%	December 2018	Evergy Metro - Missouri	MPSC	(b)	(b)	December 2018	Evergy Missouri West	MPSC	(b)	(b)	December 2018 
(a) The KCC establishes rates for Evergy Kansas Central and Evergy Kansas South on a consolidated basis.
(b) Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's current MPSC rate orders do not contain an allowed return on equity or rate-making equity ratio.
Evergy expects its 2021 Kansas and Missouri jurisdictional retail revenues to be approximately 60% and 40%, respectively, based on historical averages of Evergy Kansas Central's, Evergy Metro's and Evergy Missouri West's total retail revenues.
See Item 7 MD&A, Critical Accounting Policies section, and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information concerning regulatory matters.
8
Table of Contents
Competition
Missouri and Kansas continue to operate on the fully integrated and regulated retail utility model. As a result, the Evergy Companies do not compete with others to supply and deliver electricity in their franchised service territories in exchange for agreeing to have their terms of service regulated by state regulatory bodies. If Missouri or Kansas were to pass and implement legislation authorizing or mandating retail choice, Evergy may no longer be able to apply regulated utility accounting principles to deregulated portions of its operations, which may require a surcharge to recover certain costs from legacy customers or could lead to a write-off of certain regulatory assets and liabilities.
Evergy competes in the wholesale market to sell power in circumstances when the power it generates is not required for retail customers in its service territory. This competition primarily occurs within the SPP Integrated Marketplace, in which Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are participants. This marketplace determines which generating units among market participants should run, within the operating constraints of a unit, at any given time for maximum regional cost-effectiveness.
The SPP Integrated Marketplace is similar to other Regional Transmission Organization (RTO) or Independent System Operator (ISO) markets currently operating in other regions of the United States.
Power Supply
Evergy has approximately 15,400 megawatts (MWs) of owned generating capacity and renewable power purchase agreements. Evergy's owned generation and power purchases from others, as a percentage of total megawatt hours (MWhs) generated and purchased, was approximately 70% and 30%, respectively, over the last three years. Evergy purchases power to meet its customers' needs, to satisfy firm power commitments or to meet renewable energy standards. Management believes Evergy will be able to meet its future power purchase needs due to the coordination of planning and operations in the SPP region and existing power purchase agreements; however, price and availability of power purchases may be impacted during periods of high demand.
Evergy's total capacity by fuel type, including both owned generating capacity and power purchase agreements, is detailed in the table below.
Fuel Type	Estimated MW Capacity	Percent of Total Capacity	Coal	5,919 		39 		%	
Wind (a)
4,339 		27 			Natural gas and oil	3,935 		26 			Uranium	1,108 		7 			
Solar, landfill gas and hydroelectric (b)
72 		1 			Total capacity	15,373 		100 		% 
(a) MWs are based on nameplate capacity of the wind facility. Includes owned generating capacity of 579 MWs and long-term power purchase agreements of approximately 3,760 MWs of wind generation that expire from 2028 through 2048. See Item 2, Properties, for additional information.
(b) Includes a long-term power purchase agreement for approximately 60 MWs of hydroelectric generation that expires in 2023.
Evergy's projected peak summer demand for 2021 is approximately 10,300 MWs. Evergy expects to meet its projected capacity requirements for 2021 with its existing generation assets and power purchases. See "Transforming Evergy's Generation Fleet" for further information regarding Evergy's long-term strategy with regards to its generating assets and power purchases.
Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are members of the SPP. The SPP is a FERC-approved RTO with the responsibility to ensure reliable power supply, adequate transmission infrastructure and competitive wholesale electricity prices in the region. As SPP members, Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West are required to maintain a minimum reserve margin of 12%. This net positive supply of capacity is maintained through generation asset ownership, capacity agreements, power purchase agreements and
9
Table of Contents
peak demand reduction programs. The reserve margin is designed to support reliability of the region's electric supply.
Environmental Matters
The Evergy Companies are subject to extensive and evolving federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to air and water quality, waste management and hazardous substance disposal, protected natural resources (such as wetlands, endangered species and other protected wildlife) and health and safety. For example, Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West combust large amounts of fossil fuels in the production of electricity, which results in significant emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHG). Federal legislation regulates the emission of GHGs and numerous states and regions have adopted programs to stabilize or reduce GHG emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) and the Missouri Department of Natural Resources (MDNR) regulate emissions under the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAA), water under the Clean Water Act (CWA) and waste management under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), among other laws and regulations. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. There have been, and management believes there will continue to be, policy, legal and regulatory efforts to influence climate change, such as efforts to reduce GHG emissions, impose a tax on emissions and create incentives for low-carbon generation and energy efficiency. These efforts, and climate change itself, have the potential to adversely affect the Evergy Companies' results of operations, financial position and cash flows. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, for additional information.
The Evergy Companies have taken, and will continue to take, proactive measures to mitigate the impact of climate change on its businesses. For example, the Evergy Companies regularly conduct preparedness exercises for a variety of disruptive events, including storms, which may become more frequent or intense due to climate change. In addition, the Evergy Companies have invested, and will continue to invest, in grid resiliency. Much of the Evergy Companies' infrastructure is aged, and grid resiliency efforts include building additional transmission and distribution lines, replacing aged infrastructure and proactively managing the vegetation that can damage systems during severe weather. The Evergy Companies also monitor water conditions at their generating facilities and focus on water conservation at these facilities to address resource depletion.
Transforming Evergy's Generation Fleet
The Evergy Companies are committed to a long-term strategy to reduce CO2 emissions in a cost-effective and reliable manner. In 2020, Evergy achieved a reduction of CO2 emissions of approximately 50% from 2005 levels and announced a goal to achieve an 80% reduction from 2005 levels by 2050. In August 2020, Evergy also announced a five-year Sustainability Transformation Plan (STP), which seeks to optimize and enhance value creation for stakeholders and has the potential to reduce CO2 emissions by as much as 85% by 2030 compared to 2005 levels. The STP includes steps that would expedite CO2 emission reductions by pursuing constructive legislative and regulatory recovery mechanisms to facilitate the retirement of coal-fired generation and expansion of Evergy's wind and solar footprint, while maintaining reliability. The pace of CO2 emission reductions will ultimately be defined by continued collaboration with stakeholders as part of Evergy's triennial integrated resource plan. Further, the trajectory and timing for reaching this goal could be impacted by political, legal and regulatory actions and applicable technology developments. See Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) - Executive Summary - Strategy, for additional information regarding the STP.
Public attention is currently focused on transitioning to a low carbon future, including reducing GHG emissions and closing coal-fired generating units. Diversity of fuel supply has historically provided cost and reliability benefits. For example, because renewable generation is intermittent, diversity of baseload generation, including a mix of coal and natural gas, has helped to maintain a consistent availability of power. In addition, the Evergy Companies must prudently utilize the generation assets that regulators have allowed the Evergy Companies to include in rates. The Evergy Companies use a triennial integrated resource plan, which is a detailed analysis that estimates factors that influence the future supply and demand for electricity, to inform the manner in which they supply electricity. The integrated resource plan considers forecasts of future electricity demand, fuel prices, transmission improvements, new generating capacity, cost of environmental compliance, integration of renewables, energy storage, energy
10
Table of Contents
efficiency and demand response initiatives. Strategies that the Evergy Companies are pursuing to reduce emissions include:
•retiring fossil fuel generation;
•developing renewable energy facilities;
•collaborating with regulators to offer customers the opportunity to procure electricity produced with renewable resources; and
•investing in customer energy efficiency programs.
Since 2005, the Evergy Companies have added over 4,400 MWs of renewables, while retiring more than 2,400 MWs of fossil generation. The Evergy Companies are also committed to transparency. On its website, www.evergy.com, Evergy provides quantitative and qualitative data regarding various environmental, social and governance matters, including information related to emissions, waste and water. The contents of the website, including reports and documents contained therein, are not incorporated into this filing.
See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding environmental matters.
Fuel
The fuel sources for Evergy's owned generation and power purchase agreements are coal, wind and other renewable sources, uranium and natural gas and oil. The actual 2020 fuel mix and fuel cost in cents per net kilowatt hour (kWh) delivered are outlined in the following table.
Fuel cost in cents per		
Fuel Mix(a)
net kWh delivered (b)
Actual		Actual	Fuel	2020		2020	Coal	46	%		$1.99	Wind, hydroelectric, landfill gas and solar	29			2.31	Uranium	21			0.59	Natural gas and oil	4			2.91	   Total	100	%		$1.71 
(a) Fuel mix based on percent of net MWhs generated by owned resources and delivered under renewable power purchase agreements.
(b) Fuel cost in cents per net kWh delivered includes costs associated with renewable power purchase agreements.
Coal
During 2021, Evergy's generating units, including jointly-owned units, are projected to use approximately 18 million tons of coal. Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West have entered into coal-purchase contracts with various suppliers in Wyoming's Powder River Basin (PRB), the nation's principal supply region of low-sulfur coal, and with local suppliers. The coal to be provided under these contracts is expected to satisfy approximately 60% of the projected coal requirements for 2021 and approximately 10% for 2022. The remainder of the coal requirements is expected to be fulfilled through entering into additional contracts or spot market purchases.
Evergy Kansas Central, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West have also entered into rail transportation contracts with various railroads to transport coal from the PRB and local suppliers to their generating units. The transportation services to be provided under these contracts are expected to satisfy almost all of the projected transportation requirements for 2021 and approximately 80% for 2022. The contract rates adjust for changes in railroad costs.
11
Table of Contents
Nuclear Fuel
Evergy Kansas South and Evergy Metro each owns 47% of Wolf Creek, which is Evergy's only nuclear generating unit. Wolf Creek purchases uranium and has it processed for use as fuel in its reactor. This process involves conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, enrichment of uranium hexafluoride and fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies. The owners of Wolf Creek have on hand or under contract all of the uranium, uranium enrichment and conversion services needed to operate Wolf Creek through the first quarter of 2027. The owners also have under contract all of the uranium fabrication services required to operate Wolf Creek through the third quarter of 2028.
Natural Gas
Evergy purchases natural gas for use in its generating units primarily through spot market purchases. From time to time, Evergy also may enter into contracts, including the use of derivatives, in an effort to manage the cost of natural gas. For additional information about Evergy's exposure to commodity price risks, see Item 7A., Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
Evergy Kansas Central maintains natural gas transportation arrangements with Kansas Gas Service and Southern Star Central Gas Pipeline. The Kansas Gas Service arrangement has historically expired on April 30 of each year and is renegotiated for an additional one-year term. The Southern Star Central Gas Pipeline arrangement expires based on the generating unit being served with expiration dates from 2022 to 2030.
Human Capital Resources
At December 31, 2020, the Evergy Companies had 5,133 employees, including 2,808 represented by five local unions of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) and one local union of the United Government Security Officers of America (UGSOA). The Evergy Companies currently have labor agreements with each of these unions that expire at varying times in 2021 and 2022. The Evergy Companies employ 1,684 generation employees, 1,383 transmission and distribution employees and 2,066 support employees that work in the states of Kansas and Missouri.
Evergy's mission is to empower a better future and a key component of this mission is maintaining a culture that emphasizes safety, integrity, ownership and adaptability.
Safety is a crucial part of Evergy's values. The components of Evergy's safety program include a strong management commitment to a safety-conscious work environment, hazard recognition and control, worksite analysis, contractor safety management and training. Evergy also places a significant emphasis on continuous improvement through conducting regular safety audits and assessments. For example, Evergy's 2020 annual cash incentive program included a metric that is based on the number of days of work missed due to preventable injury. During the COVID-19 pandemic, Evergy has prioritized the safety of its employees while continuing to serve its customers and community by providing appropriate personal protective equipment, establishing additional training and protocols and directing employees to work remotely when possible.
Evergy is also working to build a more diverse and inclusive workforce through recruiting and hiring practices, performance management, training and data analysis and reporting initiatives. As of December 31, 2020, Evergy's workforce was 77% male and 23% female, and women represented 21% of Evergy's officer team. The ethnicity of Evergy's workforce was 85% White, 5% Black, 4% Hispanic and 6% other. Evergy also has a Director of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion that reports directly to Evergy's President and Chief Executive Officer.
Evergy offers a competitive package of compensation and benefits to attract and retain talented employees, including market-competitive pay, healthcare and retirement benefits, paid time off, family leave and tuition reimbursement. Evergy also allows employees to participate in a comprehensive well-being program that includes health and wellness-related incentives, business resource groups, gym membership reimbursement and access to an employee assistance program.
12
Table of Contents
Information About Evergy's Executive Officers
Set forth below is information relating to the executive officers of Evergy, Inc. Each executive officer holds the same position with each of Evergy Kansas Central, Inc., Evergy Metro, Inc., Evergy Kansas South, Inc. and Evergy Missouri West, Inc. as he or she does with Evergy, Inc. Executive officers serve at the pleasure of the board of directors. There are no family relationships among any of the executive officers, nor any arrangements or understandings between any executive officer and other persons pursuant to which he or she was appointed as an executive officer.
Name	Age	Current Position(s)	Year First Assumed an Officer Position	
David A. Campbell (a)
52	President and Chief Executive Officer	2021	
Kirkland B. Andrews(b)
53	Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	2021	
Kevin E. Bryant (c)
45	Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer	2006	
Gregory A. Greenwood (d)
55	
Executive Vice President, Strategy and Chief Administrative Officer
2003	
Anthony D. Somma (e)
57	Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	2006	
Jerl L. Banning (f)
59	Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer	2010	
Charles A. Caisley (g)
47	
Senior Vice President, Marketing and Public Affairs and Chief Customer Officer
2011	
Heather A. Humphrey (h)
50	Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary	2010	
Charles L. King (i)
56	Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer	2013	
Steven P. Busser (j)
52	Vice President - Risk Management and Controller	2014 
(a)Mr. Campbell was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Evergy, Inc. in January 2021. Mr. Campbell previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Vistra Energy Corp. (2019-2020), as President and Chief Executive Officer of InfraREIT, Inc. and President of Hunt Utility Services (2014-2019), as President and Chief Executive Officer of Sharyland Utilities (2016-2019), as President and Chief Operating Officer of Bluescape Resources (2013-2014) and in various roles with TXU Corp. and its affiliated entities after joining the firm in 2004.
(b)Mr. Andrews was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Evergy, Inc. in February 2021. Mr. Andrews previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NRG Energy, Inc. (2011-2021) and as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Clearway Energy, Inc. (2012-2016). Mr. Andrews also served as Managing Director and Co-Head Investment Banking, Power and Utilities - Americas at Deutsche Bank Securities (2009-2011), and in several capacities at Citigroup Global Markets Inc., including Managing Director, Group Head, North American Power (2007-2009) and Head of Power M&A, Mergers and Acquisitions (2005-2007). Mr. Andrews will assume the duties of principal financial officer following the departure of Mr. Somma.
(c)Mr. Bryant was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Mr. Bryant previously served as Senior Vice President - Finance and Strategy and Chief Financial Officer of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2015-2018). He previously served as Vice President - Strategic Planning of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2014). He served as Vice President - Investor Relations and Strategic Planning and Treasurer of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2013). He served as Vice President - Investor Relations and Treasurer of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2011-2013). He was Vice President - Strategy and Risk Management of Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2011) and Vice President - Energy Solutions of Evergy Metro (2006-2011) and Evergy Missouri West (2008-2011).
(d)Mr. Greenwood was appointed Executive Vice President, Strategy and Chief Administrative Officer of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Mr. Greenwood previously served in the following officer roles for Evergy Kansas Central: Senior Vice President, Strategy (2011-2018); Vice President, Major Construction Projects (2006-2011); and Treasurer (2003-2006). Mr. Greenwood also served in the following roles for Evergy Kansas Central: Executive/Senior Director, Corporate Finance (1999-2003); Director, Financial Strategy and Acting Director, Internal Audit (1999-2000); and Director, Financial Strategy (1998-1999). Mr. Greenwood joined Evergy Kansas Central in 1993.
13
Table of Contents
(e)Mr. Somma was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Mr. Somma previously served as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer (2011-2018) for Evergy Kansas Central, after having been appointed as Treasurer in 2006 and Vice President in 2009. He also served as Executive Director, Generation (2004-2006), Executive Director, Finance (1998-1999) and Director, Corporate Strategy (1996-1998) of Evergy Kansas Central, after having joined the company in 1994. From 1999 to 2004, Mr. Somma served in various leadership roles with a former affiliate of Evergy Kansas Central, including Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. As disclosed by the Evergy Companies in a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 8, 2021, Mr. Somma will leave the Evergy Companies in connection with the arrival of Mr. Andrews. Mr. Somma will continue to perform the duties of principal financial officer through the filing of the Evergy Companies' 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(f)Mr. Banning was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief People Officer of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Mr. Banning previously served in the following officer roles for Evergy Kansas Central: Senior Vice President, Operations Support and Administration (2015-2018); Vice President, Human Resources and IT (2014); and Vice President, Human Resources (2010-2013). Mr. Banning also served as Executive Director of Human Resources for Evergy Kansas Central (2008-2010).
(g)Mr. Caisley was appointed Senior Vice President, Marketing and Public Affairs and Chief Customer Officer of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Mr. Caisley served as Vice President - Marketing and Public Affairs of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2011-2018). He was Senior Director of Public Affairs (2008-2011) and Director of Governmental Affairs of Evergy Metro (2007-2008).
(h)Ms. Humphrey was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Ms. Humphrey previously served as Senior Vice President - Corporate Services and General Counsel of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2016-2018). She previously served as General Counsel (2010-2016) and Senior Vice President - Human Resources of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2012-2016). She served as Vice President - Human Resources of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2010-2012). She was Senior Director of Human Resources and Interim General Counsel of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2010) and Managing Attorney of Evergy Metro (2007-2010).
(i)Mr. King was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer of Evergy, Inc. in February 2020. He previously served as Senior Vice President, Information Technology and Chief Information Officer (2019) and Vice President, Information Technology and Chief Information Officer (2018-2019) of Evergy, Inc. Prior to that, he served as Vice President - Information Technology (2013-2018), as Senior Director of Information Technology Applications and Delivery (2013) and Director of Information Technology Applications (2011-2013) of Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West. Mr. King also served in various roles, including leadership roles, with Dish Network, CenturyLink, Sprint and Accenture.
(j)Mr. Busser was appointed Vice President - Risk Management and Controller of Evergy, Inc. in June 2018. Mr. Busser was appointed Vice President - Risk Management and Controller of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West in 2016. He previously served as Vice President - Business Planning and Controller of Great Plains Energy, Evergy Metro and Evergy Missouri West (2014-2016). He served as Vice President - Treasurer of El Paso Electric Company (2011-2014). Prior to that, he served as Vice President - Treasurer and Chief Risk Officer (2006-2011) and Vice President - Regulatory Affairs and Treasurer (2004-2006) of El Paso Electric Company.
Evergy Kansas Central, Inc.
Evergy Kansas Central, a Kansas corporation incorporated in 1924 and headquartered in Topeka, Kansas, is an integrated, regulated electric utility that engages in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. Evergy Kansas Central serves approximately 720,500 customers located in central and eastern Kansas. Customers include approximately 628,100 residences, 88,000 commercial firms, and 4,400 industrials, municipalities and other electric utilities. Evergy Kansas Central's retail revenues averaged approximately 77% of its total operating revenues over the last three years. Wholesale firm power, bulk power sales, transmission and miscellaneous electric revenues accounted for the remainder of Evergy Kansas Central's revenues. Evergy Kansas Central is significantly impacted by seasonality with approximately one-third of its retail revenues recorded in the third quarter.