Corporate Structure and Business and Other Information
Exelon is a utility services holding company engaged in the generation, delivery, and marketing of energy through Generation and the energy distribution and transmission businesses through ComEd, PECO, BGE, Pepco, DPL, and ACE.
Name of Registrant	  	Business	  	Service	Territories	Exelon Generation
Company, LLC		Generation, physical delivery, and marketing of power across multiple geographical regions through its customer-facing business, Constellation, which sells electricity to both wholesale and retail customers. Generation also sells natural gas, renewable energy, and other energy-related products and services.		Five reportable segments: Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New York, ERCOT, and Other Power Regions						Commonwealth Edison Company		Purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity		Northern Illinois, including the City of Chicago			Transmission and distribution of electricity to retail customers			PECO Energy Company		Purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and natural gas		Southeastern Pennsylvania, including the City of Philadelphia (electricity)			Transmission and distribution of electricity and distribution of natural gas to retail customers		Pennsylvania counties surrounding the City of Philadelphia (natural gas)	Baltimore Gas and Electric Company		Purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and natural gas		Central Maryland, including the City of Baltimore (electricity and natural gas)			Transmission and distribution of electricity and distribution of natural gas to retail customers			Pepco Holdings LLC		Utility services holding company engaged, through its reportable segments Pepco, DPL, and ACE		Service Territories of Pepco, DPL, and ACE						Potomac Electric 
Power Company	  	Purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity	  	District of Columbia and Major portions of Montgomery and Prince George’s Counties, Maryland			Transmission and distribution of electricity to retail customers			Delmarva Power & Light Company		Purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity and natural gas		Portions of Delaware and Maryland (electricity)			Transmission and distribution of electricity and distribution of natural gas to retail customers		Portions of New Castle County, Delaware (natural gas)	Atlantic City Electric Company		Purchase and regulated retail sale of electricity		Portions of Southern New Jersey			Transmission and distribution of electricity to retail customers		 
On February 21, 2021, Exelon’s Board of Directors approved a plan to separate the Utility Registrants and Generation, creating two publicly traded companies with the resources necessary to best serve customers and sustain long-term investment and operating excellence. The separation gives each company the financial and strategic independence to focus on its specific customer needs, while executing its core business strategy. See Note 26 — Subsequent Events of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Business Services
Through its business services subsidiary, BSC, Exelon provides its subsidiaries with a variety of support services at cost, including legal, human resources, financial, information technology, and supply management services. PHI also has a business services subsidiary, PHISCO, which provides a variety of support services at cost, including legal, accounting, engineering, customer operations, distribution and transmission planning, asset management, system operations, and power procurement, to PHI operating companies. The costs of BSC and PHISCO are directly charged or allocated to the applicable subsidiaries. The results of Exelon’s corporate operations are presented as “Other” within the consolidated financial statements and include intercompany eliminations unless otherwise disclosed.
7
Table of Contents


Generation
Generation, one of the largest competitive electric generation companies in the United States as measured by owned and contracted MW, physically delivers and markets power across multiple geographic regions through its customer-facing business, Constellation. Constellation sells electricity and natural gas, including renewable energy, in competitive energy markets to both wholesale and retail customers. Generation leverages its energy generation portfolio to ensure delivery of energy to both wholesale and retail customers under long-term and short-term contracts, and in wholesale power markets. Generation operates in well-developed energy markets and employs an integrated hedging strategy to manage commodity price volatility. Generation's fleet also provides geographic and supply source diversity. Generation’s customers include distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, financial institutions, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets. Generation’s customer-facing activities foster development and delivery of other innovative energy-related products and services for its customers.
Generation is a public utility under the Federal Power Act and is subject to FERC’s exclusive ratemaking jurisdiction over wholesale sales of electricity and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. Under the Federal Power Act, FERC has the authority to grant or deny market-based rates for sales of energy, capacity, and ancillary services to ensure that such sales are just and reasonable. FERC’s jurisdiction over ratemaking includes the authority to suspend the market-based rates of utilities and set cost-based rates should FERC find that its previous grant of market-based rates authority is no longer just and reasonable. Other matters subject to FERC jurisdiction include, but are not limited to, third-party financings; review of mergers; dispositions of jurisdictional facilities and acquisitions of securities of another public utility or an existing operational generating facility; affiliate transactions; intercompany financings and cash management arrangements; certain internal corporate reorganizations; and certain holding company acquisitions of public utility and holding company securities.
RTOs and ISOs exist in a number of regions to provide transmission service across multiple transmission systems. FERC has approved PJM, MISO, ISO-NE, and SPP as RTOs and CAISO and NYISO as ISOs. These entities are responsible for regional planning, managing transmission congestion, developing wholesale markets for energy and capacity, maintaining reliability, market monitoring, the scheduling of physical power sales brokered through ICE and NYMEX, and the elimination or reduction of redundant transmission charges imposed by multiple transmission providers when wholesale customers take transmission service across several transmission systems. ERCOT is not subject to regulation by FERC but performs a similar function in Texas to that performed by RTOs in markets regulated by FERC.
Specific operations of Generation are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal, state, regional, and local agencies, including the NRC, and Federal and state environmental protection agencies. Additionally, Generation is subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards, which protect the nation’s bulk power system against potential disruptions from cyber and physical security breaches.
8
Table of Contents


Generating Resources
At December 31, 2020, the generating resources of Generation consisted of the following:
Type of Capacity	MW	
Owned generation assets(a)(b)
Nuclear	18,880 		Fossil (primarily natural gas and oil)	9,340 		
       Renewable(c)
3,051 		Owned generation assets	31,271 		
Contracted generation(d)
3,966 		Total generating resources	35,237 	 
__________
(a)See “Fuel” for sources of fuels used in electric generation.
(b)Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation for additional information.
(c)Includes wind, hydroelectric, solar, and biomass generation.
(d)Electric supply procured under site specific agreements.
Generation has five reportable segments, as described in the table below, representing the different geographical areas in which Generation’s owned generating resources are located and Generation's customer-facing activities are conducted.
Segment		
Net Generation Capacity (MW)(a)
% of Net Generation Capacity		Geographical Area	Mid-Atlantic		9,729 			31 	%		Eastern half of PJM, which includes New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia, Delaware, the District of Columbia, and parts of Pennsylvania and North Carolina	Midwest		11,911 			38 	%		Western half of PJM and the United States footprint of MISO, excluding MISO’s Southern Region	New York		1,971 			6 	%		NYISO	ERCOT		3,623 			12 	%		Electric Reliability Council of Texas	Other Power Regions		4,037 			13 	%		New England, South, West, and Canada	Total		31,271 			100 	%		 
__________
(a)Net generation capacity is stated at proportionate ownership share. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES—Generation for additional information.
Nuclear Facilities
Generation has ownership interests in thirteen nuclear generating stations currently in service, consisting of 23 units with an aggregate of 18,880 MW of capacity. These stations include FitzPatrick located in Scriba, New York, which was acquired on March 31, 2017 and exclude TMI located in Middletown, Pennsylvania, which permanently ceased generation operations on September 20, 2019 and Oyster Creek located in Forked River, New Jersey, which permanently ceased generation operations on September 17, 2018 and was subsequently sold to Holtec International (Holtec) on July 1, 2019. Generation wholly owns all of its nuclear generating stations, except for undivided ownership interests in three jointly-owned nuclear stations: Quad Cities (75% ownership), Peach Bottom (50% ownership), and Salem (42.59% ownership), which are consolidated in Exelon’s and Generation's financial statements relative to its proportionate ownership interest in each unit, and a 50.01% membership interest in CENG, a joint venture with EDF, which wholly owns the Calvert Cliffs and Ginna nuclear stations and Nine Mile Point Unit 1, in addition to an 82% undivided ownership interest in Nine Mile Point Unit 2. CENG is 100% consolidated in Exelon's and Generation's financial statements.
9
Table of Contents


Generation and EDF entered into a Put Option Agreement on April 1, 2014, pursuant to which EDF has an option to sell its 49.99% equity interest in CENG to Generation. The put option became exercisable on January 1, 2016 and may be exercised any time until June 30, 2022. On November 20, 2019, Generation received notice of EDF’s intention to exercise the put option and sell its ownership share in CENG to Generation and the put automatically exercised on January 19, 2020 at the end of the sixty-day advance notice period. At this time, Generation cannot reasonably predict the ultimate purchase price that will be paid to EDF for its interest in CENG. The transaction will require approval by the NYPSC and the FERC. The FERC approval was obtained on July 30, 2020. From the date the put was exercised, the process and regulatory approvals could take one to two years to complete.
See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information on Generation's nuclear facilities, Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the disposition of Oyster Creek, and Note 23 — Variable Interest Entities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the CENG consolidation.
Generation’s nuclear generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of the two units at Salem, which are operated by PSEG Nuclear, LLC (PSEG Nuclear), an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG. In 2020, 2019, and 2018 electric supply (in GWh) generated from the nuclear generating facilities was 62%, 64%, and 68%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply, which also includes fossil, hydroelectric, and renewable generation and electric supply purchased for resale. Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities are, in part, supplied by the output from the nuclear generating stations. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS for additional information of Generation’s electric supply sources.
Nuclear Operations
Capacity factors, which are significantly affected by the number and duration of refueling and non-refueling outages, can have a significant impact on Generation’s results of operations. Generation’s operations from its nuclear plants have historically had minimal environmental impact and the plants have a safe operating history.
Generation manages its scheduled refueling outages to minimize their duration and to maintain high nuclear generating capacity factors, resulting in a stable generation base for Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. During scheduled refueling outages, Generation performs maintenance and equipment upgrades in order to minimize the occurrence of unplanned outages and to maintain safe, reliable operations. During 2020, 2019, and 2018, the nuclear generating facilities operated by Generation, achieved capacity factors of 95.4%, 95.7%, and 94.6%, respectively, at ownership percentage.
In addition to the maintenance and equipment upgrades performed by Generation during scheduled refueling outages, Generation has extensive operating and security procedures in place to ensure the safe operation of the nuclear units. Generation also has extensive safety systems in place to protect the plant, personnel, and surrounding area in the unlikely event of an accident or other incident.
Regulation of Nuclear Power Generation
Generation is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to the operation of its nuclear generating stations, including the licensing for operation of each unit. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering, among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security, and environmental and radiological aspects of those stations. As part of its reactor oversight process, the NRC continuously assesses unit performance indicators and inspection results and communicates its assessment on a semi-annual basis. All nuclear generating stations operated by Generation are categorized by the NRC in the Licensee Response Column, which is the highest of five performance bands. The NRC may modify, suspend, or revoke operating licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act or the terms of the operating licenses. Changes in regulations by the NRC may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures and/or operating costs for nuclear generating facilities.
Licenses
Generation has original 40-year operating licenses from the NRC for each of its nuclear units and has received 20-year operating license renewals from the NRC for all its nuclear units except Clinton. PSEG has received 20-year operating license renewals for Salem Units 1 and 2. Peach Bottom has received a second 20-year license
10
Table of Contents


renewal from the NRC for Units 2 and 3. On August 27, 2020, Generation announced that it intends to permanently cease generation operations at Byron in September 2021 and at Dresden in November 2021. See Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
The following table summarizes the current license expiration dates for Generation’s operating nuclear facilities in service:
Station	Unit		
In-Service
Date(a)
Current License
Expiration	Braidwood	1 			1988		2046		2 			1988		2047	Byron	1 			1985		2044		2 			1987		2046	Calvert Cliffs	1 			1975		2034		2 			1977		2036	
Clinton(b)
1 			1987		2027	Dresden	2 			1970		2029		3 			1971		2031	FitzPatrick	1 			1974		2034	LaSalle	1 			1984		2042		2 			1984		2043	Limerick	1 			1986		2044		2 			1990		2049	Nine Mile Point	1 			1969		2029		2 			1988		2046	Peach Bottom	2 			1974		2053		3 			1974		2054	Quad Cities	1 			1973		2032		2 			1973		2032	Ginna	1 			1970		2029	Salem	1 			1977		2036		2 			1981		2040 
__________
(a)Denotes year in which nuclear unit began commercial operations.
(b)Although timing has been delayed, Generation currently plans to seek license renewal for Clinton and has notified the NRC that any license renewal application would not be filed until the first quarter of 2024. In 2019, the NRC approved a change of the operating license expiration for Clinton from 2026 to 2027.
The operating license renewal process takes approximately four to five years from the commencement of the renewal process, which includes approximately two years for Generation to develop the application and approximately two years for the NRC to review the application. Depreciation provisions are based on the estimated useful lives of the stations, which reflect the first renewal of the operating licenses for all of Generation’s operating nuclear generating stations except for Clinton, Peach Bottom, Byron, and Dresden. Clinton depreciation provisions are based on an estimated useful life of 2027 which is the last year of the Illinois ZES. Peach Bottom depreciation provisions are based on estimated useful life of 2053 and 2054 for Unit 2 and Unit 3, respectively, which reflects the second renewal of its operating licenses. Byron and Dresden depreciation provisions are based on the announced shutdown dates of September 2021 and November 2021, respectively. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Illinois ZES and Note 7 — Early Plant Retirements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on early retirements.
11
Table of Contents


Nuclear Waste Storage and Disposal
There are no facilities for the reprocessing or permanent disposal of SNF currently in operation in the United States, nor has the NRC licensed any such facilities. Generation currently stores all SNF generated by its nuclear generating facilities on-site in storage pools or in dry cask storage facilities. Since Generation’s SNF storage pools generally do not have sufficient storage capacity for the life of the respective plant, Generation has developed dry cask storage facilities to support operations.
As of December 31, 2020, Generation had approximately 87,100 SNF assemblies (21,600 tons) stored on site in SNF pools or dry cask storage which includes SNF assemblies at Zion Station, for which Generation retains ownership even though the responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station has been assumed by another party, and TMI, which is no longer operational. See the Decommissioning section below for additional information regarding Zion Station. All currently operating Generation-owned nuclear sites have on-site dry cask storage. TMI's on-site dry cask storage is projected to be in operation in 2021. On-site dry cask storage in concert with on-site storage pools will be capable of meeting all current and future SNF storage requirements at Generation’s sites through the end of the license renewal periods and through decommissioning.
For a discussion of matters associated with Generation’s contracts with the DOE for the disposal of SNF, see Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generating units produce LLRW. LLRW is accumulated at each generating station and permanently disposed of at licensed disposal facilities. The Federal Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Act of 1980 provides that states may enter into agreements to provide regional disposal facilities for LLRW and restrict use of those facilities to waste generated within the region. Illinois and Kentucky have entered into such an agreement, although neither state currently has an operational site and none is anticipated to be operational for the next ten years.
Generation ships its Class A LLRW, which represents 93% of LLRW generated at its stations, to disposal facilities in Utah and South Carolina, which have enough storage capacity to store all Class A LLRW for the life of all stations in Generation's nuclear fleet. The disposal facility in South Carolina at present is only receiving LLRW from LLRW generators in South Carolina, New Jersey (which includes Salem), and Connecticut.
Generation utilizes on-site storage capacity at all its stations to store and stage for shipping Class B and Class C LLRW. Generation has a contract through 2032 to ship Class B and Class C LLRW to a disposal facility in Texas. The agreement provides for disposal of all current Class B and Class C LLRW currently stored at each station as well as the Class B and Class C LLRW generated during the term of the agreement. However, because the production of LLRW from Generation’s nuclear fleet will exceed the capacity at the Texas site (3.9 million curies for 15 years beginning in 2012), Generation will still be required to utilize on-site storage at its stations for Class B and Class C LLRW. Generation currently has enough storage capacity to store all Class B and Class C LLRW for the life of all stations in Generation’s nuclear fleet. Generation continues to pursue alternative disposal strategies for LLRW, including an LLRW reduction program to minimize on-site storage and cost impacts.
Nuclear Insurance
Generation is subject to liability, property damage, and other risks associated with major incidents at all of its nuclear stations. Generation has reduced its financial exposure to these risks through insurance and other industry risk-sharing provisions. See “Nuclear Insurance” within Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES — Generation. Generation is self-insured to the extent that any losses may exceed the amount of insurance maintained or are within the policy deductible for its insured losses. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s future financial statements.
Decommissioning
NRC regulations require that licensees of nuclear generating facilities demonstrate reasonable assurance that funds will be available in specified minimum amounts at the end of the life of the facility to decommission the facility. The ultimate decommissioning obligation will be funded by the NDT funds. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
12
Table of Contents


OPERATIONS — Exelon Corporation, Liquidity and Capital Resources; ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Nuclear Decommissioning, Asset Retirement Obligations, and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust Fund Investments; and Note 3 — Regulatory Matters, Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions, Note 18 — Fair Value of Financial Assets and Liabilities, and Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Generation’s NDT funds and its decommissioning obligations.
Oyster Creek Decommissioning. On July 1, 2019, Generation completed the sale with Holtec and its indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Oyster Creek Environmental Protection, LLC (OCEP), of Oyster Creek under which Holtec has assumed the responsibility for decommissioning. See Note 2 — Mergers, Acquisitions, and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Zion Station Decommissioning. On September 1, 2010, Generation completed an ASA with EnergySolutions, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, EnergySolutions, LLC and ZionSolutions under which ZionSolutions has assumed responsibility for decommissioning Zion Station. See Note 10 — Asset Retirement Obligations of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Fossil and Renewable Facilities (including Hydroelectric)
Generation wholly owns all of its fossil and renewable generating stations, with the exception of: (1) Wyman; (2) certain wind project entities and a biomass project entity with minority interest owners; and (3) EGRP which is owned 49% by another owner. See Note 23 — Variable Interest Entities of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding EGRP which is a VIE. Generation’s fossil and renewable generating stations are all operated by Generation, with the exception of Wyman, which is operated by a third party. In 2020, 2019, and 2018, electric supply (in GWh) generated from owned fossil and renewable generating facilities was 9%, 11%, and 11%, respectively, of Generation’s total electric supply. The majority of this output was dispatched to support Generation’s wholesale and retail power marketing activities. On December 8, 2020, Generation entered into an agreement to sell a significant portion of Generation's solar business. See ITEM 2. PROPERTIES for additional information regarding Generation's electric generating facilities and Note 2 - Mergers, Acquisitions and Dispositions of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the sale of Generation's solar business.
Licenses
Fossil and renewable generation plants are generally not licensed, and, therefore, the decision on when to retire plants is, fundamentally, a commercial one. FERC has the exclusive authority to license most non-Federal hydropower projects located on navigable waterways or Federal lands, or connected to the interstate electric grid, which include Generation's Conowingo Hydroelectric Project (Conowingo) and Muddy Run Pumped Storage Facility Project (Muddy Run). Muddy Run's license expires on December 1, 2055. On August 29, 2012, Generation submitted a hydroelectric license application to the FERC for a new license for Conowingo. Based on the FERC procedural schedule, the FERC licensing process for Conowingo was not completed prior to the expiration of the plant’s license on September 1, 2014. As a result, on September 10, 2014, FERC issued an annual license for Conowingo, effective as of the expiration of the previous license. The annual license renews automatically absent any further FERC action. The stations are currently being depreciated over their estimated useful lives, which include actual and anticipated license renewal periods. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on Conowingo.
Insurance
Generation maintains business interruption insurance for its renewable projects, but not for its fossil and hydroelectric operations unless required by contract or financing agreements. See Note 17 — Debt and Credit Agreements of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on financing agreements. Generation maintains both property damage and liability insurance. For property damage and liability claims for these operations, Generation is self-insured to the extent that losses are within the policy deductible or exceed the amount of insurance maintained. Such losses could have a material adverse effect on Exelon’s and Generation’s future financial conditions and their results of operations and cash flows. For information regarding property insurance, see ITEM 2. PROPERTIES — Generation.
13
Table of Contents


Contracted Generation
In addition to energy produced by owned generation assets, Generation sources electricity from plants it does not own under long-term contracts. The following tables summarize Generation’s long-term contracts to purchase unit-specific physical power with an original term in excess of one year in duration, by region, in effect as of December 31, 2020:
Region		Number of
Agreements		Expiration 
Dates		Capacity (MW)	
Mid-Atlantic
8 			2021 - 2032		183 		Midwest		3 			2021 - 2032		351 	ERCOT		5 			2021 - 2035		864 		Other Power Regions		17 			2021 - 2032		2,568 		Total		33 					3,966 	 
2021		2022		2023		2024		2025		Thereafter		Total	Capacity Expiring (MW)		884 			304 			103 			101 			461 			2,113 			3,966 	 
Fuel
The following table shows sources of electric supply in GWh for 2020 and 2019: 
Source of Electric Supply		2020		2019	
Nuclear(a)
175,085 			181,326 		Purchases — non-trading portfolio	79,972 			70,939 		Fossil (primarily natural gas and oil)	19,501 			21,554 		
Renewable(b)
7,052 			7,777 		Total supply	281,610 			281,596 	 
 
__________
(a)Includes the proportionate share of output where Generation has an undivided ownership interest in jointly-owned generating plants and includes the total output of plants that are fully consolidated (e.g., CENG).  Nuclear generation for 2020 and 2019 includes physical volumes of 35,052 GWh and 35,745 GWh, respectively, for CENG.
(b)Includes wind, hydroelectric, solar, and biomass generating assets.
The cycle of production and utilization of nuclear fuel includes the mining and milling of uranium ore into uranium concentrates, the conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride, the enrichment of the uranium hexafluoride, and the fabrication of fuel assemblies. Generation has inventory in various forms and does not anticipate difficulty in obtaining the necessary uranium concentrates or conversion, enrichment, or fabrication services to meet the nuclear fuel requirements of its nuclear units.
Natural gas is procured through long-term and short-term contracts, as well as spot-market purchases. Fuel oil inventories are managed so that in the winter months sufficient volumes of fuel are available in the event of extreme weather conditions and during the remaining months to take advantage of favorable market pricing.
Generation uses financial instruments to mitigate price risk associated with certain commodity price exposures, using both over-the-counter and exchange-traded instruments. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS, ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and Note 16 — Derivative Financial Instruments of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding derivative financial instruments.
14
Table of Contents


Power Marketing
Generation’s integrated business operations include physical delivery and marketing of power. Generation largely obtains physical power supply from its owned and contracted generation in multiple geographic regions. The commodity risks associated with the output from owned and contracted generation is managed using various commodity transactions including sales to customers. The main objective is to obtain low-cost energy supply to meet physical delivery obligations to both wholesale and retail customers. Generation sells electricity, natural gas, and other energy related products and solutions to various customers, including distribution utilities, municipalities, cooperatives, and commercial, industrial, governmental, and residential customers in competitive markets. Where necessary, Generation may also purchase transmission service to ensure that it has reliable transmission capacity to physically move its power supplies to meet customer delivery needs.
Price and Supply Risk Management
Generation also manages the price and supply risks for energy and fuel associated with generation assets and the risks of power marketing activities. Generation implements a three-year ratable sales plan to align its hedging strategy with its financial objectives. Generation may also enter into transactions that are outside of this ratable sales plan. Generation is exposed to commodity price risk in 2021 and beyond for portions of its electricity portfolio that are unhedged. As of December 31, 2020, the percentage of expected generation hedged for the Mid-Atlantic, Midwest, New York, and ERCOT reportable segments is 94%-97% for 2021. The percentage of expected generation hedged is the amount of equivalent sales divided by the expected generation. Expected generation is the volume of energy that best represents our commodity position in energy markets from owned or contracted generation based upon a simulated dispatch model that makes assumptions regarding future market conditions, which are calibrated to market quotes for power, fuel, load following products, and options. Equivalent sales represent all hedging products, which include economic hedges and certain non-derivative contracts, including sales to the Utility Registrants to serve their retail load. A portion of Generation’s hedging strategy may be implemented through the use of fuel products based on assumed correlations between power and fuel prices. The risk management group and Exelon’s RMC monitor the financial risks of the wholesale and retail power marketing activities. Generation also uses financial and commodity contracts for proprietary trading purposes, but this activity accounts for only a small portion of Generation’s efforts. The proprietary trading portfolio is subject to a risk management policy that includes stringent risk management limits. See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK for additional information.
Capital Expenditures
Generation’s business is capital intensive and requires significant investments primarily in nuclear fuel and energy generation assets. Generation’s estimated capital expenditures for 2021 include Generation's share of the investment in the co-owned Salem plant and the total capital expenditures for CENG. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources, for additional information regarding projected 2021 capital expenditures.

Utility Registrants
Merger with Pepco Holdings, Inc.
On March 23, 2016, Exelon completed the merger among Exelon, Purple Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon (Merger Sub), and PHI. As a result of that merger, Merger Sub was merged into PHI (the PHI merger) with PHI surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon and EEDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Exelon which also owns Exelon's interests in ComEd, PECO, and BGE (through a special purpose subsidiary in the case of BGE). Following the completion of the PHI merger, Exelon, and PHI completed a series of internal corporate organization restructuring transactions resulting in the transfer of PHI’s unregulated business interests to Exelon and Generation and the transfer of PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE to a special purpose subsidiary of EEDC.
15
Table of Contents


Utility Operations
Service Territories and Franchise Agreements
The following table presents the size of service territories, populations of each service territory and the number of customers within each service territory for the Utility Registrants as of December 31, 2020:
ComEd		PECO		BGE		Pepco		DPL		ACE	Service Territories (in square miles)	Electric		11,400 			2,100 			2,300 			640 			5,400 			2,800 		Natural Gas		N/A		1,960 			3,050 			N/A		270 			N/A	Total		11,400 			2,100 			3,250 			640 			5,400 			2,800 															Service Territory Population (in millions)	Electric		9.6 			4.0 			3.0 			2.4 			1.5 			1.1 		Natural Gas		N/A		2.5 			2.9 			N/A		0.6 			N/A	Total		9.6 			4.0 			3.1 			2.4 			1.5 			1.1 		Main City		Chicago		Philadelphia		Baltimore		District of Columbia		Wilmington		Atlantic City	Main City Population		2.7 			1.6 			0.6 			0.7 			0.1 			0.1 															Number of Customers (in millions)	Electric		4.1 			1.7 			1.3 			0.9 			0.5 			0.6 		Natural Gas		N/A		0.5 			0.7 			N/A		0.1 			N/A	Total		4.1 			1.7 			1.3 			0.9 			0.5 			0.6 	 
The Utility Registrants have the necessary authorizations to perform their current business of providing regulated electric and natural gas distribution services in the various municipalities and territories in which they now supply such services. These authorizations include charters, franchises, permits, and certificates of public convenience issued by local and state governments and state utility commissions. ComEd's, BGE's (gas), Pepco DC's, and ACE's rights are generally non-exclusive while PECO's, BGE's (electric), Pepco MD's, and DPL's rights are generally exclusive. Certain authorizations are perpetual while others have varying expiration dates. The Utility Registrants anticipate working with the appropriate governmental bodies to extend or replace the authorizations prior to their expirations.
Utility Regulations
State utility commissions regulate the Utility Registrants' electric and gas distribution rates and service, issuances of certain securities, and certain other aspects of the business. The following table outlines the state commissions responsible for utility oversight.
Registrant		Commission	ComEd		ICC	PECO		PAPUC	BGE		MDPSC	Pepco		DCPSC/MDPSC	DPL		DPSC/MDPSC	ACE		NJBPU 
The Utility Registrants are public utilities under the Federal Power Act subject to regulation by FERC related to transmission rates and certain other aspects of the utilities' business. The U.S. Department of Transportation also regulates pipeline safety and other areas of gas operations for PECO, BGE, and DPL. Additionally, the Utility Registrants are subject to NERC mandatory reliability standards, which protect the nation's bulk power system against potential disruptions from cyber and physical security breaches.
16
Table of Contents


Seasonality Impacts on Delivery Volumes
The Utility Registrants' electric distribution volumes are generally higher during the summer and winter months when temperature extremes create demand for either summer cooling or winter heating. For PECO, BGE, and DPL, natural gas distribution volumes are generally higher during the winter months when cold temperatures create demand for winter heating.
ComEd, BGE, Pepco, and DPL Maryland have electric distribution decoupling mechanisms and BGE has a natural gas decoupling mechanism that eliminate the favorable and unfavorable impacts of weather and customer usage patterns on electric distribution and natural gas delivery volumes. As a result, ComEd's, BGE's, Pepco's, and DPL's Maryland electric distribution revenues and BGE's natural gas distribution revenues are not materially impacted by delivery volumes. PECO's and DPL's Delaware electric distribution revenues and natural gas distribution revenues and ACE's electric distribution revenues are impacted by delivery volumes.
Electric and Natural Gas Distribution Services
The Utility Registrants are allowed to recover reasonable costs and fair and prudent capital expenditures associated with electric and natural gas distribution services and earn a return on those capital expenditures, subject to commission approval. ComEd recovers costs through a performance-based rate formula. ComEd is required to file an update to the performance-based rate formula on an annual basis. PECO's, BGE's, and DPL's electric and gas distribution costs and Pepco's and ACE's electric distribution costs have generally been recovered through traditional rate case proceedings. However, the MDPSC and the DCPSC allow utilities to file multi-year rate plans. In certain instances, the Utility Registrants use specific recovery mechanisms as approved by their respective regulatory agencies.
ComEd, Pepco, and ACE customers have the choice to purchase electricity, and PECO, BGE, and DPL customers have the choice to purchase electricity and natural gas from competitive electric generation and natural gas suppliers. The Utility Registrants remain the distribution service providers for all customers and are obligated to deliver electricity and natural gas to customers in their respective service territories while charging a regulated rate for distribution service. In addition, the Utility Registrants also retain significant default service obligations to provide electricity to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose a competitive electric generation supplier. PECO and BGE also retain significant default service obligations to provide natural gas to certain groups of customers in their respective service areas who do not choose a competitive natural gas supplier. For natural gas, DPL does not retain default service obligations for its residential customers.
For customers that choose to purchase electric generation or natural gas from competitive suppliers, the Utility Registrants act as the billing agent and therefore do not record Operating revenues or Purchased power and fuel expense related to the electricity and/or natural gas. For customers that choose to purchase electric generation or natural gas from a Utility Registrant, the Utility Registrants are permitted to recover the electricity and natural gas procurement costs without mark-up and therefore record equal and offsetting amounts of Operating revenues and Purchased power and fuel expense related to the electricity and/or natural gas. As a result, fluctuations in electricity or natural gas sales and procurement costs have no impact on the Utility Registrants’ Net Income.
See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Results of Operations and Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding electric and natural gas distribution services.
Procurement of Electricity and Natural Gas
The Utility Registrants' electric supply for its customers is primarily procured through contracts as required by their respective state commissions. The Utility Registrants procure electricity supply from various approved bidders, including Generation. RTO spot market purchases and sales are utilized to balance the utility electric load and supply as required. Charges incurred for electric supply procured through contracts with Generation are included in Purchased power from affiliates on the Utility Registrants' Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income.
17
Table of Contents


PECO's, BGE’s, and DPL's natural gas supplies are purchased from a number of suppliers for terms of up to three years. PECO, BGE, and DPL have annual firm supply and transportation contracts of 132,000 mmcf, 264,000 mmcf and 61,000 mmcf, respectively. In addition, to supplement gas supply at times of heavy winter demands and in the event of temporary emergencies, PECO, BGE, and DPL have available storage capacity from the following sources:
Peak Natural Gas Sources (in mmcf)		LNG Facility		Propane-Air Plant		
Underground Storage Service Agreements (a)
PECO	1,200 			150 			19,400 		BGE	1,056 			550 			22,000 		DPL	250 			N/A		3,900 	 
___________
(a)Natural gas from underground storage represents approximately 28%, 20%, and 33% of PECO's, BGE’s, and DPL's 2020-2021 heating season planned supplies, respectively.
PECO, BGE, and DPL have long-term interstate pipeline contracts and also participate in the interstate markets by releasing pipeline capacity or bundling pipeline capacity with gas for off-system sales. Off-system gas sales are low-margin direct sales of gas to wholesale suppliers of natural gas. Earnings from these activities are shared between the utilities and customers. PECO, BGE, and DPL make these sales as part of a program to balance its supply and cost of natural gas. The off-system gas sales are not material to PECO, BGE, and DPL.
See ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK, Commodity Price Risk (All Registrants), for additional information regarding Utility Registrants' contracts to procure electric supply and natural gas.
Energy Efficiency Programs
The Utility Registrants are generally allowed to recover costs associated with the energy efficiency and demand response programs they offer. Each commission approved program seeks to meet mandated electric consumption reduction targets and implement demand response measures to reduce peak demand. The programs are designed to meet standards required by each respective regulatory agency.
ComEd is allowed to earn a return on its energy efficiency costs. See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Capital Investment
The Utility Registrants' businesses are capital intensive and require significant investments, primarily in electric transmission and distribution and natural gas transportation and distribution facilities, to ensure the adequate capacity, reliability, and efficiency of their systems. See ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS, Liquidity and Capital Resources, for additional information regarding projected 2021 capital expenditures.
Transmission Services
Under FERC’s open access transmission policy, the Utility Registrants, as owners of transmission facilities, are required to provide open access to their transmission facilities under filed tariffs at cost-based rates approved by FERC. The Utility Registrants and their affiliates are required to comply with FERC’s Standards of Conduct regulation governing the communication of non-public transmission information between the transmission owner’s employees and wholesale merchant employees.
PJM is the regional grid operator and operates pursuant to FERC-approved tariffs. PJM is the transmission provider under, and the administrator of, the PJM Open Access Transmission Tariff (PJM Tariff). PJM operates the PJM energy, capacity, and other markets, and, through central dispatch, controls the day-to-day operations of the bulk power system for the region. The Utility Registrants are members of PJM and provide regional transmission service pursuant to the PJM Tariff. The Utility Registrants and the other transmission owners in PJM have turned over control of certain of their transmission facilities to PJM, and their transmission systems are under the dispatch control of PJM. Under the PJM Tariff, transmission service is provided on a region-wide, open-
18
Table of Contents


access basis using the transmission facilities of the PJM transmission owners at rates based on the costs of transmission service.
The Utility Registrants' transmission rates are established based on a formula that was initially approved by FERC as shown below:
Approval Date	ComEd	January 2008	PECO	December 2019	BGE	April 2006	Pepco	April 2006	DPL	April 2006	ACE	April 2006 
Employees
The Registrants strive to create a workplace that is diverse, innovative, and safe for their employees. In order to provide the services and products that their customers expect, the Registrants must create the best teams. These teams must reflect the diversity of the communities that the Registrants serve. Therefore, the Registrants strive to attract highly qualified and diverse talent and routinely review their hiring and promotion practices to ensure they maintain equitable and bias free processes to neutralize any unconscious bias. The Registrants provide growth opportunities, competitive compensation and benefits, and a variety of training and development programs. The Registrants are committed to helping employees grow their skills and careers largely through numerous training opportunities in technical, safety and business acumen areas, mentorship programs, and continuous feedback and development discussions and evaluations. Employees are encouraged to thrive outside the workplace as well. The Registrants provide a full suite of wellness benefits targeted at supporting work-life balance, physical, mental and financial health, and industry-leading paid leave policies.
The Registrants conduct an employee engagement survey every other year to help identify their successes and areas where they can grow. The survey results are reviewed with senior management and the Exelon Board of Directors.
Diversity Metrics
The following tables show diversity metrics for all employees and management as of December 31, 2020:
Employees		Exelon		Generation		ComEd		PECO		BGE		PHI		Pepco		DPL		ACE	
Female(a) (b)
7,993 			2,492 			1,517 			727 			765 			1,281 			366 			154 			121 		
People of Color(b)
9,298 			2,083 			2,432 			890 			1,067 			1,748 			898 			194 			139 		Aged <30		3,268 			1,363 			625 			279 			273 			425 			183 			85 			62 		Aged 30-50		17,119 			6,712 			3,491 			1,292 			1,694 			2,207 			756 			466 			369 		Aged >50		11,953 			4,407 			2,138 			1,227 			1,172 			1,594 			517 			385 			219 		
Total Employees(c)
32,340 			12,482 			6,254 			2,798 			3,139 			4,226 			1,456 			936 			650 	 

Management(d)
Exelon		Generation		ComEd		PECO		BGE		PHI		Pepco		DPL		ACE	
Female(a) (b)
1,175 			299 			209 			112 			112 			177 			46 			14 			19 		
People of Color(b)
1,132 			220 			276 			104 			132 			232 			112 			27 			14 		Aged <30		78 			51 			4 			5 			3 			11 			3 			4 			— 		Aged 30-50		2,790 			1,220 			441 			137 			238 			341 			102 			59 			47 		Aged >50		2,219 			841 			369 			213 			170 			277 			73 			63 			34 		Within 10 years of retirement eligibility		2,936 			1,113 			487 			250 			235 			370 			95 			82 			46 		
Total Employees in Management(c)
5,087 			2,112 			814 			355 			411 			629 			178 			126 			81 	 
19
Table of Contents


 __________
(a)The Registrants are devoted to creating an environment that allows women to stay in the workforce, grow with the company, and move up the ranks, all with parity of pay. Exelon employs an independent third-party vendor to run regression analysis on all management positions each year. The analysis consistently shows that the Registrants have no systemic pay equity issues.
(b)This is based on self-disclosed information.
(c)Total employees represents the sum of the aged categories.
(d)Management is defined as executive/senior level officials and managers as well as all employees who have direct reports and supervisory responsibilities.
Turnover Rates
As turnover is inherent, management succession planning is performed and tracked for all executives and critical key manager positions. Management frequently reviews succession planning to ensure the Registrants are prepared when positions become available.
The table below shows the average turnover rate for all employees for the last three years of 2018 to 2020:
Exelon		Generation		ComEd		PECO		BGE		PHI		Pepco		DPL		ACE	Retirement Age		4.13 	%		4.80 	%		3.69 	%		2.64 	%		3.64 	%		4.31 	%		4.90 	%		3.70 	%		3.37 	%	Voluntary		2.87 	%		3.88 	%		1.37 	%		1.55 	%		1.37 	%		2.18 	%		2.51 	%		1.10 	%		1.21 	%	Non-Voluntary		0.97 	%		0.86 	%		0.61 	%		1.15 	%		0.97 	%		0.94 	%		1.78 	%		0.25 	%		0.63 	% 
Collective Bargaining Agreements
Approximately 37% of Exelon’s employees participate in CBAs. The following table presents employee information, including information about CBAs, as of December 31, 2020:
Total Employees Covered by CBAs		Number of CBAs		
CBAs New and Renewed in 2020(a)
Total Employees Under CBAs
New and Renewed
in 2020	Exelon	11,964 			32 			11 			1,715 		Generation	3,418 			22 			8 			1,001 		ComEd	3,476 			2 			1 			71 		PECO	1,350 			2 			— 			— 		BGE	1,423 			1 			— 			— 		PHI	2,203 			5 			2 			626 		Pepco	954 			1 			— 			— 		DPL	626 			2 			2 			626 		ACE	390 			2 			— 			— 	 
 __________
(a)Does not include CBAs that were extended in 2020 while negotiations are ongoing for renewal.
Environmental Regulation
General
The Registrants are subject to comprehensive and complex environmental legislation and regulation at the federal, state, and local levels, including requirements relating to climate change, air and water quality, solid and hazardous waste, and impacts on species and habitats.
The Exelon Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the management of environmental matters. Exelon has a management team to address environmental compliance and strategy, including the CEO; the Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Chief Innovation and Sustainability Officer; the Senior Vice President, Competitive Market Policy; and the Vice President, Corporate Environmental Strategy, as well as senior management of the Registrants. Performance of those individuals directly involved in environmental compliance and strategy is reviewed and affects compensation as part of the annual individual performance review process. The Exelon Board of Directors has delegated to its Generation Oversight Committee and the Corporate
20
Table of Contents


Governance Committee the authority to oversee Exelon’s compliance with health, environmental, and safety laws and regulations and its strategies and efforts to protect and improve the quality of the environment, including Exelon’s internal climate change and sustainability policies and programs, as discussed in further detail below. The respective Boards of the Utility Registrants oversee environmental, health, and safety issues related to these companies.
Climate Change Mitigation
Exelon supports comprehensive federal climate legislation, including a cap-and-trade program for GHG emissions that addresses the urgent need to substantially reduce national GHG emissions while providing appropriate protections for consumers, businesses, and the economy. In the absence of comprehensive federal legislation, Exelon supports EPA moving forward with meaningful regulation of GHG emissions under the Clean Air Act.
The Registrants currently are subject to, and may become subject to additional, federal and/or state legislation and/or regulations addressing GHG emissions. Generation produces electricity predominantly from low- and zero-carbon generating facilities (such as nuclear, hydroelectric, natural gas, wind, and solar PV) and neither owns nor operates any coal-fueled generating assets. Generation’s natural gas and biomass fired generating plants produce GHG emissions, most notably CO2. However, Generation’s owned-asset emission intensity, or rate of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emitted per unit of electricity generated, is among the lowest in the industry.
Other GHG emission sources associated with the Utility Registrants include natural gas (methane) leakage on the natural gas systems, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) leakage from electric transmission and distribution operations, refrigerant leakage from chilling and cooling equipment, and fossil fuel combustion in motor vehicles. In addition, PECO, BGE, and DPL distribute natural gas and Generation sells natural gas at retail; and consumers’ use of such natural gas produces GHG emissions.
International Climate Change Agreements. At the international level, the United States is a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). The Parties to the UNFCCC adopted the Paris Agreement at the 21st session of the UNFCCC Conference of the Parties (COP 21) on December 12, 2015. Under the Agreement, which became effective on November 4, 2016, the parties committed to try to limit the global average temperature increase and to develop national GHG reduction commitments. On November 4, 2020, the United States formally withdrew from the Paris Agreement, retracting its commitment to reduce domestic GHG emissions by 26%-28% by 2025 compared with 2005 levels. However, on January 20, 2021, President Biden accepted the Paris Agreement, which resulted in the United States’ formal re-entry on February 19, 2021. The Biden administration has announced its intent to pursue ambitious GHG reductions in the United States and internationally.
Federal Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. It is highly uncertain whether federal legislation to significantly reduce GHG emissions will be enacted in the near-term. If such legislation were adopted, it would likely increase the value of Exelon's low-carbon fleet even though Exelon may incur costs either to further limit or offset the GHG emissions from its operations or to procure emission allowances or credits. Continued inaction could negatively impact the value of Exelon’s low-carbon fleet.
The Clean Power Plan and Affordable Clean Energy Rule. The EPA’s 2015 Clean Power Plan (CPP) established regulations addressing carbon dioxide emissions from existing fossil-fired power plants under Clean Air Act Section 111(d). The CPP’s carbon pollution limits could be met through changes to the electric generation system, including shifting generation from higher-emitting units to lower- or zero-emitting units, as well as the development of new or expanded zero-emissions generation. In July 2019, the EPA published its final Affordable Clean Energy rule, which repealed the CPP and replaced it with less stringent emissions guidelines for existing fossil-fired power plants based on heat rate improvement measures that could be achieved within the fence line of individual plants. Exelon, together with a coalition of other electric utilities, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit on September 6, 2019, challenging the Affordable Clean Energy rule as unlawful. This lawsuit was consolidated with separate challenges to the Affordable Clean Energy rule filed by various states, non-governmental organizations, and business coalitions. On January 19, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit held the Affordable Clean Energy Rule to be unlawful, vacated the rule, and remanded it to the EPA. The EPA has indicated it will promulgate new GHG limits for existing power plants in accordance with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit's order.
21
Table of Contents


State Climate Change Legislation and Regulation. A number of states in which the Registrants operate have state and regional programs to reduce GHG emissions and renewable and other portfolio standards, which impact the power sector. See discussion below for additional information on renewable and other portfolio standards. As the nation’s largest generator of carbon-free electricity, Generation’s fleet supports these efforts to produce safe, reliable electricity with minimal GHGs.
Eleven northeast and mid-Atlantic states (Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Virginia) currently participate in the RGGI, which is in the process of strengthening its requirements. The program requires most fossil fuel-fired power plants in the region to hold allowances, purchased at auction, for each ton of CO2 emissions. Non-emitting resources do not have to purchase or hold these allowances. In October 2019, the Governor of Pennsylvania issued an Executive Order directing the PA DEP to begin a rulemaking process to allow Pennsylvania to join the RGGI, with the goal of reducing carbon emissions from the electricity sector. On November 7, 2020, the PA DEP proposed its rule.
Broader state programs impact other sectors as well, such as New York’s Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act, which establishes statewide emission limits; and Massachusetts’ Clean Energy and Climate Plan, which aims to reduce GHG emissions across all sectors through increased efficiency in buildings and vehicles, the electrification of vehicles and thermal conditioning in buildings, and the replacement of carbon intensive fuels with renewable energy sources.
While the Registrants cannot predict the nature of future regulations or how such regulations might impact future financial statements, Generation has a low emission portfolio, and GHG restrictions would likely benefit zero- and low-emission generating units relative to higher-emission fossil fuel-fired generating units.
In addition, Exelon facilities and operations are subject to the global impacts of climate change. Exelon believes its operations could be significantly affected by the physical risks of climate change. See ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS for additional information.
Renewable and Clean Energy Standards
Thirty states and the District of Columbia, incorporating the vast majority of states where Exelon operates, have adopted some form of renewable or clean energy procurement requirement. These standards impose varying levels of mandates for procurement of renewable or clean electricity (the definition of which varies by state) and/or energy efficiency. These are generally expressed as a percentage of annual electric load, often increasing by year. The Utility Registrants comply with these various requirements through purchasing qualifying renewables, implementing efficiency programs, acquiring sufficient credits (e.g., RECs), paying an alternative compliance payment, and/or a combination of these compliance alternatives. The Utility Registrants are permitted to recover from retail customers the costs of complying with their state RPS requirements, including the procurement of RECs or other alternative energy resources. Illinois, New York, and New Jersey adopted standards targeted at preserving the zero-carbon attributes of certain nuclear-powered generating facilities. Generation owns multiple facilities participating in these programs within these states. Other states in which Exelon operates are considering similar programs.
See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
Air Quality
Mercury and Air Toxics Standards (MATS). In 2011, the EPA signed a final rule, known as MATS, to reduce emissions of hazardous air pollutants from power plants. MATS requires coal-fired power plants to achieve high removal rates of mercury, acid gases, and other metals, and to make capital investments in pollution control equipment and incur higher operating expenses. In 2016, in response to a Supreme Court decision requiring the EPA to consider costs in determining whether it was appropriate and necessary to regulate power plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants, the EPA issued a supplemental finding that, after considering costs, it remained appropriate and necessary. On May 22, 2020, the EPA reversed course, publishing a final rule revoking the "appropriate and necessary" finding underpinning MATS. A coal mining company filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit seeking vacatur of MATS based on the EPA’s May 22, 2020 finding; on September 11, 2020, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit granted a motion by Exelon and two other
22
Table of Contents


entities to intervene in that lawsuit to defend MATS, and on September 28, 2020, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued an Executive Order holding this portion of the MATS litigation in abeyance. On July 21, 2020, Exelon and two other entities filed a lawsuit in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit challenging the EPA’s May 22, 2020 rescission of the appropriate and necessary finding underpinning MATS. This portion of the case is also being held in abeyance in response to the DOJ’s motion filed February 12, 2021. On January 20, 2021, President Biden issued an Executive Order directing the EPA to reconsider its May 22, 2020 recission by August 2021; the EPA will likely re-affirm the finding that it is appropriate and necessary to regulate power plant emissions of hazardous air pollutants. As a result, this litigation is likely to be rendered moot, and MATS will likely remain in place in the interim.
Water Quality
Under the federal Clean Water Act, NPDES permits for discharges into waterways are required to be obtained from the EPA or from the state environmental agency to which the permit program has been delegated, and permits must be renewed periodically. Certain of Exelon's facilities discharge stormwater, industrial wastewater, and/or cooling water into waterways and are therefore subject to these regulations and operate under NPDES permits.
Clean Water Act Section 316(b) is implemented through the NDPES program and requires that the cooling water intake structures at electric power plants reflect the best technology available to minimize adverse environmental impacts. Generation’s power generation facilities with cooling water intake systems are subject to the EPA’s Section 316(b) regulations finalized in 2014; the regulation’s requirements have been or will be addressed through renewal of these facilities’ NPDES permits. Until the compliance requirements are determined by the applicable state permitting director on a site-specific basis for each plant, Generation cannot estimate the effect that compliance with the EPA’s 2014 rule will have on the operation of its generating facilities and its financial statements. Should a state permitting director determine that a facility must install cooling towers to comply with the rule, that facility’s economic viability could be called into question. However, the final rule does not mandate cooling towers and allows state permitting directors to require alternative, less costly technologies and/or operational measures, based on a site-specific assessment of the feasibility, costs, and benefits of available options.
On July 28, 2016, the NJDEP issued a final permit for Salem that did not require the installation of cooling towers and allows Salem to continue to operate utilizing the existing cooling water system with certain required system modifications. However, the permit is being challenged by an environmental organization, and if successful, could result in additional costs for Clean Water Act compliance. Potential cooling water system modification costs could be material and could adversely impact the economic competitiveness of this facility.
Under Clean Water Act Section 404 and state laws and regulations, the Registrants may be required to obtain permits for projects involving dredge or fill activities in Waters of the United States.
Where Registrants’ facilities are required to secure a federal license or permit for activities that may result in a discharge to covered waters, they may be required to obtain a state water quality certification under Clean Water Act section 401.
Generation is also subject to the jurisdiction of the Delaware River Basin Commission and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission, regional agencies that primarily regulate water usage.
Solid and Hazardous Waste and Environmental Remediation
CERCLA provides for response and removal actions coordinated by the EPA in the event of threatened releases of hazardous substances and authorizes the EPA either to clean up sites at which hazardous substances have created actual or potential environmental hazards or to order persons responsible for the situation to do so. Under CERCLA, generators and transporters of hazardous substances, as well as past and present owners and operators of hazardous waste sites, are strictly, jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs of hazardous waste at sites, many of which are listed by the EPA on the National Priorities List (NPL). These PRPs can be ordered to perform a cleanup, can be sued for costs associated with an EPA-directed cleanup, may voluntarily settle with the EPA concerning their liability for cleanup costs, or may voluntarily begin a site investigation and site remediation under state oversight. Most states have also enacted statutes that contain provisions substantially similar to CERCLA. Such statutes apply in many states where the Registrants currently own or
23
Table of Contents


operate, or previously owned or operated, facilities, including Delaware, Illinois, Maryland, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania and the District of Columbia. In addition, RCRA governs treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and cleanup of sites where such activities were conducted.
The Registrants’ operations have in the past, and may in the future, require substantial expenditures in order to comply with these Federal and state environmental laws. Under these laws, the Registrants may be liable for the costs of remediating environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned by them and of property contaminated by hazardous substances generated by them. The Registrants own or lease a number of real estate parcels, including parcels on which their operations or the operations of others may have resulted in contamination by substances that are considered hazardous under environmental laws. The Registrants and their subsidiaries are, or could become in the future, parties to proceedings initiated by the EPA, state agencies, and/or other responsible parties under CERCLA and RCRA or similar state laws with respect to a number of sites or may undertake to investigate and remediate sites for which they may be subject to enforcement actions by an agency or third-party.
ComEd’s and PECO’s environmental liabilities primarily arise from contamination at former MGP sites. ComEd, pursuant to an ICC order, and PECO, pursuant to settlements of natural gas distribution rate cases with the PAPUC, have an on-going process to recover environmental remediation costs of the MGP sites through a provision within customer rates. BGE, ACE, Pepco, and DPL do not have material contingent liabilities relating to MGP sites. The amount to be expended in 2021 for compliance with environmental remediation related to contamination at former MGP sites and other gas purification sites is estimated to be approximately $35 million which consists primarily of $30 million at ComEd.
As of December 31, 2020, the Registrants have established appropriate contingent liabilities for environmental remediation requirements. In addition, the Registrants may be required to make significant additional expenditures not presently determinable for other environmental remediation costs.
See Note 3 — Regulatory Matters and Note 19 — Commitments and Contingencies of the Combined Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Registrants’ environmental matters, remediation efforts, and related impacts to the Registrants’ Consolidated Financial Statements.
24
Table of Contents


Information about our Executive Officers as of February 24, 2021
Exelon
Name		Age		Position		Period	Crane, Christopher M.		62 			Chief Executive Officer, Exelon;		2012 - Present				President, Exelon		2008 - Present							Cornew, Kenneth W.		55 			Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;		2013 - Present					President and CEO, Generation		2013 - Present							Butler, Calvin G.		51 			Senior Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Exelon Utilities		2019 - Present					Chief Executive Officer, BGE		2014 - 2019							Dominguez, Joseph		58 			Chief Executive Officer, ComEd		2018 - Present					Executive Vice President, Governmental & Regulatory Affairs and Public Policy, Exelon		2015 - 2018								Glockner, David		60 			Executive Vice President, Compliance and Audit, Exelon		2020 - Present					Chief Compliance Officer, Citadel LLC		2017 - 2020					Regional Director, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission		2013 - 2017								Hanson, Bryan C.		55 			Executive Vice President and Chief Generation Officer, Generation		2020 - Present					President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear; Senior Vice President, Generation		2015 - 2020								Innocenzo, Michael A.		55 			President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO		2018 - Present					Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, PECO		2012 - 2018								Khouzami, Carim V.		45 			Chief Executive Officer, BGE		2019 - Present					Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Utilities		2018 - 2019					Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Exelon Utilities		2016 - 2018					Senior Vice President, Chief Integration Officer, Exelon		2014 - 2016								Velazquez, David M.		61 			President and Chief Executive Officer, PHI		2016 - Present					President and Chief Executive Officer, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2009 - Present					Executive Vice President, Pepco Holdings, Inc.		2009 - 2016								Von Hoene Jr., William A.		67 			Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer, Exelon		2012 - Present 
25
Table of Contents


Name		Age		Position		Period								Nigro, Joseph		56 			Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Exelon		2018 - Present					Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Constellation		2013 - 2018								Souza, Fabian E.		50 			Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller, Exelon		2018 - Present					Senior Vice President and Deputy Controller, Exelon		2017 - 2018					Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, The AES Corporation		2015 - 2017 
Generation
Name		Age		Position		Period	Crane, Christopher M.		62 			Principle Executive Officer, Generation		2020 - Present					Chief Executive Officer, Exelon;		2012 - Present					President, Exelon		2008 - Present								Cornew, Kenneth W.		55 			Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer, Exelon;		2013 - Present					President and Chief Executive Officer, Generation		2013 - Present							Swahl, William		51 			Senior Vice President, Generation; Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Power		2021 - Present					Vice President, Generation; Vice President, Mid-Atlantic Operations, Exelon Power		2014 - 2020								Hanson, Bryan C.		55 			Executive Vice President and Chief Generation Officer, Generation		2020 - Present					President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear, Senior Vice President, Generation		2015 - 2020								McHugh, James		49 			Executive Vice President, Exelon; Chief Executive Officer, Constellation		2018 - Present					Senior Vice President, Portfolio Management & Strategy, Constellation		2016 - 2018					Vice President, Portfolio Management, Constellation		2012 - 2016								Rhoades, David		54 			Senior Vice President, Generation; President and Chief Nuclear Officer, Exelon Nuclear		2020 - Present					Chief Operating Officer, Fleet Operations, Exelon Nuclear		2015 - 2020								Wright, Bryan P.		54 			Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Generation		2013 - Present							Bauer, Matthew N.		44 			Vice President and Controller, Generation		2016 - Present					Vice President and Controller, BGE		2014 - 2016 
26
Table of Contents


ComEd
Name		Age		Position		Period	Dominguez, Joseph		58 			Chief Executive Officer, ComEd		2018 - Present					Executive Vice President, Governmental & Regulatory Affairs and Public Policy, Exelon		2015 - 2018								Donnelly, Terence R.		60 			President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd		2018 - Present					Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, ComEd		2012 - 2018								Jones, Jeanne M.		41 			Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, ComEd		2018 - Present					Vice President, Finance, Exelon Nuclear		2014 - 2018								Park, Jane		48 			Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, ComEd		2018 - Present				Vice President, Regulatory Policy & Strategy, ComEd		2016 - 2018					Director, Business Strategy & Technology, ComEd		2014 - 2016								Gomez, Veronica		51 			Senior Vice President, Regulatory and Energy Policy and General Counsel, ComEd		2017 - Present					Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Litigation, Exelon		2012 - 2017								Washington, Melissa		51 			Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, ComEd		2019 - Present				Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, ComEd		2019 -2019					Vice President, External Affairs and Large Customer Services, ComEd		2016 - 2019					Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Exelon Business Services Company		2014 - 2016								Perez, David		51 			Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd		2019 - Present					Vice President, Transmission and Substation, ComEd		2016 - 2019					Vice President, Regional Operations, ComEd		2010 - 2016 
27
Table of Contents


PECO
Name		Age		Position		Period	Innocenzo, Michael A.		55 			President and Chief Executive Officer, PECO		2018 - Present					Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, PECO		2012 - 2018								McDonald, John		63 			Senior Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, PECO		2018 - Present					Vice President, Integration, PHI		2016 - 2018					Vice President, Technical Services		2006 - 2016	Stefani, Robert J.		47 			Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, PECO		2018 - Present					Vice President, Corporate Development, Exelon		2015 - 2018								Murphy, Elizabeth A.		61 			Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO		2016 - Present					Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO		2012 - 2016							Webster Jr., Richard G.		59 			Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PECO		2012 - Present							Williamson, Olufunmilayo		42 			Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, PECO		2020 - Present					Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Risk Officer, Exelon		2017 - 2020					Vice President, Commercial Risk Management, Exelon		2015 - 2017								Gay, Anthony		55 			Vice President and General Counsel, PECO		2019 - Present				Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, PECO		2016 - 2019					Associate General Counsel, Exelon		2010 - 2016 
28
Table of Contents


BGE
Name		Age		Position		Period	Khouzami, Carim V.		45 			Chief Executive Officer, BGE		2019 - Present					Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Exelon Utilities		2018 - 2019					Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Exelon Utilities		2016 - 2018					Senior Vice President, Chief Integration Officer, Exelon		2014 - 2016								Woerner, Stephen J.		53 			President, BGE		2014 - Present					Chief Operating Officer, BGE		2012 - Present							Vahos, David M.		48 			Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE		2016 - Present					Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, BGE		2014 - 2016							Núñez, Alexander G. 		49 			Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Strategy, BGE		2020 - Present					Senior Vice President, Regulatory and External Affairs, BGE		2016 - 2020					Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, BGE		2013 - 2016								Case, Mark D.		59 			Vice President, Strategy and Regulatory Affairs, BGE		2012 - Present							Oddoye, Rodney		44 			Senior Vice President, Governmental and External Affairs, BGE		2020 - Present					Vice President, Customer Operations, BGE		2018 - 2020					Director, Northeast Regional Electric Operations, BGE		2016 - 2018					Director, Financial Operations, BGE		2015 - 2016								Olivier, Tamla		48 			Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, BGE		2020 - Present					Senior Vice President, Constellation NewEnergy, Inc.		2016 - 2020					VP, Human Resources, Exelon Business Services Company		2012 - 2016								Corse, John		60 			Vice President and General Counsel, BGE		2018 - Present					Associate General Counsel, Exelon		2012 - 2018 
29
Table of Contents


PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE
Name		Age		Position		Period	Velazquez, David M.		61 			President and Chief Executive Officer, PHI		2016 - Present					Executive Vice President, Pepco Holdings, Inc.		2009 - 2016					President and Chief Executive Officer, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2009 - Present								Anthony, J. Tyler		56 			Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2016 - Present					Senior Vice President, Distribution Operations, ComEd		2010 - 2016								Barnett, Phillip S.		57 			Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2018 - Present					Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, PECO		2007 - 2018					Treasurer, PECO		2012 - 2018								Lavinson, Melissa		51 			Senior Vice President, Governmental & External Affairs, PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2018 - Present					Vice President, Federal Affairs and Policy and Chief Sustainability Officer, PG&E Corporation		2015 - 2018								Stark, Wendy E.		48 			Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Strategy and General Counsel, PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2019 - Present					Vice President and General Counsel, PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2016 - 2018					Deputy General Counsel, Pepco Holdings, Inc.		2012 - 2016								McGowan, Kevin M.		59 			Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PHI, Pepco, DPL, and ACE		2016 - Present					Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, Pepco Holdings, Inc.		2012 - 2016								Dickens, Derrick		56 			Senior Vice President, Customer Operations, PHI		2020 - Present					Vice President, Technical Services, BGE		2016 - 2020					Director, Advanced Meter Infrastructure, PECO		2012 - 2016								Humphrey, Marissa		41		Vice President, Regulatory Policy and Strategy, PHI, DPL, and ACE		2021 - Present					Vice President Finance, Exelon Utilities		2019 - 2020					Vice President, Finance, PHI		2016 - 2019 
