We refer to Expedia Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries collectively as “Expedia Group,” the “Company,” “us,” “we” and “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the section entitled “Risk Factors” as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. COVID-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from it, and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic, could also give rise to or aggravate these risk factors, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and/or stock price. Further, COVID-19 may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “goal,” “intends,” “likely,” “may,” “plans,” “potential,” “predicts,” “projected,” “seeks,” “should” and “will,” or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations.
Management Overview
General Description of Our Business
Expedia Group, Inc. is an online travel company, and our mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to empower travelers to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We seek to grow our business through a dynamic portfolio of travel brands, including our majority-owned subsidiaries, that feature a broad multi-product supply portfolio — with over 2.9 million lodging properties available, including over 2 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings and approximately 880,000 hotels, over 500 airlines, packages, rental cars, cruises, insurance, as well as activities and experiences across 200 countries and territories. Travel suppliers distribute and market products via our desktop and mobile offerings, as well as through alternative distribution channels, our business partnerships and our call centers in order to reach our extensive global audience. In addition, our advertising and media businesses help other businesses, primarily travel providers, reach a large multi-platform audience of travelers around the globe.
COVID-19
During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has severely restricted the level of economic activity around the world, and is continuing to have an unprecedented effect on the global travel industry. The various government measures implemented to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, such as imposing restrictions on travel and business operations and advising or requiring individuals to limit or forgo their time outside of their homes, initially led to unprecedented levels of cancellations and continues to have a negative impact on the number of new travel bookings. While many countries have begun the process of vaccinating their residents against COVID-19, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing the vaccines, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccines against new variants of the virus, may contribute to delays in economic recovery.
1
Table of Contents
Overall, the full duration and total impact of COVID-19 remains uncertain and it is difficult to predict how the recovery will unfold for the travel industry and, in particular, our business, going forward.
Market Opportunity and Business Strategy
Expedia Group is one of the world’s largest online travel companies, yet our gross bookings represent a single-digit percentage of total worldwide travel spending highlighting the size of our market opportunity. Phocuswright estimated global travel spending, inclusive of alternative accommodations at approximately $1.9 trillion in 2020 prior to the onset of COVID-19 with an increasing share booked through online channels each year.
As we endeavor to power global travel for everyone, everywhere our focus is to: leverage our brand and supply strength, and our platform, to provide greater services and value to our travelers, suppliers and business partners, and generate sustained, profitable growth.
Leverage Brand and Supply Strength. We believe the strength of our brand portfolio and enhancements to product and service offerings, which when combined with our global scale and broad based supply, drive increasing value to customers and customer demand. With our significant global audience of travelers, and our deep and broad selection of travel products, there is a rich interplay between supply and demand in our global marketplace that helps us provide value to both travelers planning trips and supply partners wanting to grow their business through a better understanding of travel retailing and consumer demand in addition to reaching consumers in markets beyond their reach. Our multi-brand strategy and deep product and supply footprint allows us to tailor offerings to target different types of consumers and travel needs, employ geographic segmentation in markets around the world, and leverage brand differentiation, among other benefits. Additionally, we know that consumers typically visit multiple travel websites prior to booking travel, and having a multi-brand strategy increases the likelihood that those consumers will visit one or more of our websites. We also market to consumers through a variety of channels, including internet search, metasearch and social media websites, and having multiple brands appear in search results also increases the likelihood of attracting new visitors.
Our portfolio of brands, operated and organized by reportable segment are as follows:
Retail. Our Retail segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a number of consumer brands that target a variety of customer segments and geographic regions with tailored offerings. Our portfolio of retail brands include:
•Brand Expedia. Brand Expedia is a leading full-service online travel brand with localized websites in over 40 countries covering 27 languages offering a wide selection of travel products and services. Through an award-winning mobile app and Expedia-branded websites, travelers have access to the latest technology to manage all aspects of their trips, including airline tickets, lodging, car rentals, cruises, insurance and other travel needs, such as airport transfers, tickets to attractions and tours, from hundreds of thousands of suppliers, on both a standalone and package basis. Across the more than 20 years that Brand Expedia has been helping people travel with confidence and ease, we have learned that travelers benefit when Brand Expedia continually improves and optimizes its offering, to ensure that travelers the world over can book the trip they need, in the manner they choose, at any point and save. That commitment has propelled Brand Expedia to a leadership position within travel, and ensures that Brand Expedia can continue to help millions of travelers experience the world.
•Hotels.com. Hotels.com focuses on marketing lodging accommodations. Hotels.com, with 90 localized websites worldwide in 41 languages worldwide and market leading mobile apps on all major platforms, offers travelers a broad selection of lodging options. Hotels.com Rewards®, the loyalty program established in 2008, offers travelers the ability to earn one free night for every ten nights stayed.
•Vrbo. Vrbo (previously HomeAway), operates an online marketplace for the alternative accommodations industry. The Vrbo portfolio includes the vacation rental website Vrbo, which operates localized websites around the world, and HomeAway. In addition, Vrbo operates regional brands around the world and offers software solutions to property managers.
•Orbitz. Orbitz is where all travelers are welcome and connects travelers to the world by providing the best planning tools and travel rewards just for going. The Orbitz Reward program allows travelers to instantly earn rewards on flights, hotels and packages that can be instantly redeemed on tens of thousands of hotels worldwide.
•CheapTickets. Budget travel site CheapTickets gives customers more ways to save on their next trip with last minute deals and discounts, and event tickets to top concerts, theater, sporting events and more.
•Travelocity. Travelocity is a pioneer in the online travel industry and celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2016. Travelocity and its famous Roaming Gnome encourage travelers in the United States and Canada to “Wander Wisely™”.
2
Table of Contents
•ebookers. ebookers is a leading online EMEA travel agent offering travelers an array of travel options across flights, accommodations, packages, car hire providers and destination activities. With ebookers, travelers have the flexibility to build their perfect trip by booking a combination of elements in the same place.
•Wotif Group. Wotif Group is a leading Australian online travel agent, comprised of the Wotif.com, lastminute.com.au and travel.com.au brands in Australia, and Wotif.co.nz and lastminute.co.nz in New Zealand. Having been in the Australian market for over two decades, Wotif is the go-to for local travel and is committed to supporting the Australian tourism industry, destination marketing organizations and tourism operators to help attract tourists to their region.
•Hotwire. Hotwire offers a travel booking service that matches flexible, value-oriented travelers with suppliers who have excess seats, rooms and cars they offer at lower rates than retail. Hotwire’s Hot Rate® Hotels, Hot Rate® Cars and Hot Rate® Flights offer travelers an extra low price as the supplier name is not revealed until after the traveler books and pays. With Hotwire’s unique model, suppliers create value from excess availability without diluting their core, brand-loyal traveler base. Hotwire partners with leading hotel companies worldwide, brand-name domestic and international airlines, and major car rental companies in the United States.
•CarRentals.com. CarRentals.com is an online car rental marketing and retail firm offering a diverse selection of car rentals direct to consumers. CarRentals.com is able to provide our customers choices across the globe and help our supply partners expand their marketing reach.
•Classic Vacations. Classic offers a full line of accommodations, from mid-tier to luxury (including suites, villas and residences), competitive pricing, first class and private transportation options and unique tours and experiences in Asia, Australia, Canada, Caribbean, Costa Rica, Dubai, Europe, Fiji, Hawaii, Mainland United States, Maldives, Mexico, New Zealand, Oman, Seychelles, Tahiti and the United Arab Emirates. Travel advisors have always relied on Classic to help create exceptional travel experiences for their clients. Travel agents and travelers can preview our product offering through our website www.classicvacations.com.
•Expedia Cruises. Expedia Cruises is North America’s leading cruise specialist, providing a full range of travel products through its network of independently owned retail travel franchises. With over 285 points of sale across North America and a team of over 5,400 professionally-trained vacation consultants, the franchise company has been recognized as a top seller with every major cruise line and is consistently ranked as a top-rated franchise organization year after year..
B2B. Our B2B segment encompasses our Expedia Business Services organization, which has two components:
•Expedia Partner Solutions. Expedia Partner Solutions is the partner-focused arm of Expedia Group. Expedia Partner Solutions partners with businesses in over 70 countries across a wide range of travel and non-travel verticals including corporate travel management, airlines, travel agents, online retailers and financial institutions, who market Expedia Group rates and availabilities to their travelers. Expedia Partner Solutions' partners can benefit from Expedia Group technology and supply in the way that best suits their business. This includes connecting to Expedia Group's travel content through Expedia Partner Solutions’ API, Rapid; adopting one of Expedia Partner Solutions’ customized white label or co-branded ecommerce template solutions Hotels.com for partners; or Expedia.com for partners; or a powerful agent booking tool, Expedia TAAP.
•Egencia. Our full-service travel management company, offers travel products and services to businesses and their corporate travelers. Egencia maintains a global presence in more than 60 countries across North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. Egencia provides, among other things, a global technology platform coupled with assistance from expert travel consultants, relevant supply targeted at business travelers, and consolidated reporting for its clients. Egencia charges its corporate clients account management fees, as well as transactional fees for booking and fees for various contacts made as part of the travel process. Egencia also offers consulting and meeting management services as well as advertising opportunities.
trivago. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. trivago is our majority-owned hotel metasearch company, based in Dusseldorf, Germany. The online platform gives travelers access to price comparisons from hundreds of booking websites for over 5.0 million hotels and other accommodations, including over 3.8 million units of alternative accommodations, in over 190 countries. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is a leading global brand in hotel search and can be accessed worldwide via 54 localized websites and apps in 32 languages. Subsequent to its initial public offering ("IPO") in December 2016, the company is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and trades under the symbol "TRVG."
Leverage Our Platform. Over the last year, Expedia Group shifted to a platform operating model with more centralized technology, product, data engineering and data science teams building services and capabilities that are leveraged across our business units to serve our end customers and provide value-add services to our travel suppliers. This model enables us to
3
Table of Contents
deliver more scalable services and operate more efficiently. All of our transaction-based businesses share and benefit from our platform infrastructure, including customer servicing and support, data centers, search capabilities and transaction processing functions, including payment processing and fraud operations.
As we continue to evolve our platform infrastructure, our focus is on developing technical capabilities that support various travel products while using common applications and frameworks. We believe this strategy will enable us to: build in parallel because of simpler, standard architecture; ship products faster; create more innovative solutions; and achieve greater scale. Over time, as we enable domains around application development frameworks, we believe we can unlock additional platform service opportunities beyond our internal brands and other business travel partners.
We provide 24-hour-a-day, seven-day-a-week traveler sales and support by our virtual agent platform, telephone or e-mail. For purposes of operational flexibility, we use a combination of outsourced and in-house contact centers. Our contact centers are located in several countries throughout the world. We invested significantly in our contact center technologies, with the goal of improving customer experience and increasing the efficiency of our contact center agents, and have plans to continue reaping the benefits of these investments going forward. In addition, we have continued to invest in our conversation platform, which leverages technology and artificial intelligence to provide online customer service options and self-service capabilities to our customers through our websites and apps.
Our systems infrastructure and web and database servers are housed in various locations, mainly in the United States, which have 24-hour monitoring and engineering support. These data centers have their own generators and multiple back-up systems. Significant amounts of our owned computer hardware for operating the websites are located at these facilities. Additionally, we are in the midst of a multi-year project to migrate products, data storage and functionality and significantly increase our utilization of public cloud computing services, such as Amazon Web Services. For some critical systems, we have both production and disaster-recovery facilities. Our technology systems are subject to certain risks, which are described below in Part I, Item 1A — Risk Factors.
Business Models
We make travel products and services available both on a stand-alone and package basis, primarily through the following business models: the merchant model, the agency model and the advertising model.
•Merchant Model. Under the merchant model, we facilitate the booking of hotel rooms, alternative accommodations, airline seats, car rentals and destination services from our travel suppliers and we are the merchant of record for such bookings. The majority of our merchant transactions relate to lodging bookings.
•Agency Model. Under the agency model, we facilitate travel bookings and act as the agent in the transaction, passing reservations booked by the traveler to the relevant travel provider. We receive commissions or ticketing fees from the travel supplier and/or traveler; and
•Advertising Model. Under the advertising model we offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings across several of our transaction-based websites, as well as on our majority-owned metasearch site, trivago.
For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had total revenue of $5.2 billion, with merchant, agency and advertising accounting for 63%, 24%, and 13% of total revenue, respectively.
We continue to see closer integration of the agency hotel product with our core merchant product through our Expedia Traveler Preference (ETP) program by offering, for participating hotels, customers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group in advance under our merchant model (Expedia Collect) or pay at the hotel at the time of the stay under the agency model (Hotel Collect).
In addition, through various of our Expedia Group-branded and other multi-product websites, travelers can dynamically assemble multiple component travel packages for a specified period at a lower price as compared to booking each component separately. Travelers typically select packages based on the total package price or by purchasing one product and receiving a discounted price to attach additional products. The use of the merchant travel components in packages and multi-product purchases enable us to make certain travel products available at prices lower than those charged on an individual component basis by travel suppliers without impacting their other pricing models. In addition, we also offer third-party pre-assembled package offerings, primarily through our international points of sale, further broadening our scope of products and services to travelers. We expect the package product to continue to be marketed primarily using the merchant model.
Marketing and Promotions
Our marketing programs are intended to build and maintain the value of our various brands, drive traffic and ultimately bookings through our various brands and businesses, optimize ongoing traveler acquisition costs and strategically position our brands in relation to one another. Our long-term success and profitability depends on our continued ability to maintain and
4
Table of Contents
increase the overall number of traveler transactions flowing through our brand and shared global platforms in a cost-effective manner, as well as our ability to attract repeat customers and customers that come directly to our websites. We now manage our marketing investments holistically across the brand portfolio in our Retail segment to optimize results for the Company, and making decisions on a market by market and customer segment basis that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment.
Our marketing channels primarily include online advertising, including search engine marketing and optimization as well as metasearch, social media websites, brand advertising through online and offline channels, loyalty programs, mobile apps and direct and/or personalized traveler communications on our websites as well as through direct e-mail communication with our travelers. Our marketing programs and initiatives include promotional offers such as coupons as well as seasonal or periodic special offers from our travel suppliers based on our supplier relationships. Our traveler loyalty programs include Hotels.com Rewards on Hotels.com global websites and Expedia®Rewards on over 40 Brand Expedia points of sale, as well as Orbitz Rewards on Orbitz.com. The cost of these loyalty programs is recorded as a reduction of revenue in our consolidated financial statements.
We also make use of affiliate marketing. Several of our branded websites receive bookings from consumers who have clicked-through to the respective websites through links posted on affiliate partner websites. Affiliate partners can also make travel products and services available on their own websites through a Brand Expedia, Hotels.com or Vrbo co-branded offering or a private label website. Our Expedia Partner Solutions business provides our affiliates with technology and access to a wide range of products and services. We manage agreements with thousands of third-party affiliate partners pursuant to which we pay a commission for bookings originated from their websites.
Travel Suppliers
Overview. We make travel products and services available from a variety of hotel companies, property owners and managers, large and small commercial airlines, car rental companies, cruise lines, destination service providers, and other travel partners. We seek to build and maintain long-term, strategic relationships with travel suppliers and global distribution system (“GDS”) partners. An important component of the success of our business depends on our ability to maintain our existing, as well as build new, relationships with travel suppliers and GDS partners.
We strive to deliver value to our travel supply partners through a wide range of innovative, targeted merchandising and promotional strategies designed to generate consumer demand and increase their revenue, while simultaneously reducing their overall marketing transaction and customer service costs. Our strategic account managers and local hotel market managers work directly with travel suppliers to optimize the exposure of their travel products and brands through our points of sale, including participation in need-based, seasonal and event-driven promotions and experimentation within the new channels we are building.
We developed proprietary technology to assist hotel suppliers in managing, pricing and marketing their supply. Our “direct connect” technology allows hotels to upload information about available products and services and rates directly from their central reservation systems and to automatically confirm hotel reservations made by our travelers. Proprietary marketing tools assist hotels in tailoring demand to their requirements and our revenue management product provides pricing insight based on Expedia Group data and analytics. Our suite of white label website offerings power hotel, package and meeting space booking on suppliers' own websites.
In addition, Vrbo's alternative accommodation listing services includes a set of tools for property owners or managers, which enables them to manage an availability calendar, reservations, inquiries and the content of the listing, as well as provide various other services for property owners or managers to manage reservations or drive incremental sales volume.
Distribution Partners. GDSs, also referred to as computer reservation services, provide a centralized, comprehensive repository of travel suppliers’ ‘content’ — such as availability and pricing of seats on various airline point-to-point flights, or ‘segments.’ The GDSs act as intermediaries between the travel suppliers and travel agencies, allowing agents to reserve and book flights, rooms or other travel products. Our relationships with GDSs primarily relate to our air business. We use Sabre, Amadeus and Travelport as our GDS segment providers in order to ensure the widest possible supply of content for our travelers.
Competition
Our brands compete in rapidly evolving and intensely competitive markets. We believe international markets represent especially large opportunities for Expedia Group and those of our competitors that wish to expand their brands and businesses abroad to achieve global scale. We also believe that Expedia Group is one of only a few companies that are focused on building a truly global, travel marketplace.
Our competition, which is strong and increasing, includes online and offline travel companies that target leisure and corporate travelers, including travel agencies, tour operators, travel supplier direct websites and their call centers, consolidators
5
Table of Contents
and wholesalers of travel products and services, large online portals and search websites, certain travel metasearch websites, mobile travel applications, social media websites, as well as traditional consumer ecommerce and group buying websites. We face these competitors in local, regional, national and/or international markets. In some cases, competitors are offering more favorable terms and improved interfaces to suppliers and travelers which make competition increasingly difficult. We also face competition for customer traffic on internet search engines and metasearch websites, which impacts our customer acquisition and marketing costs.
We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brands is a critical component of our effort to compete. We differentiate our brands from our competitors primarily based on the multiple channels we use to generate demand, quality and breadth of travel products, channel features and usability, price or promotional offers, traveler service and quality of travel planning content and advice as well as offline brand efforts. The emphasis on one or more of these factors varies, depending on the brand or business and the related target demographic. Our brands face increasing competition from travel supplier direct websites. In some cases, supplier direct channels offer advantages to travelers, such as long standing loyalty programs, complimentary services such as Wi-Fi, and better pricing. Our websites feature travel products and services from numerous travel suppliers, and allow travelers to combine products and services from multiple providers in one transaction. We face competition from airlines, hotels, alternative accommodation websites, rental car companies, cruise operators and other travel service providers, whether working individually or collectively, some of which are suppliers to our websites. Our business is generally sensitive to changes in the competitive landscape, including the emergence of new competitors or business models, and supplier consolidation.
Intellectual Property Rights
Our intellectual property and appurtenant rights, including our patents, trademarks, copyright rights, domain names, trade dress, proprietary technology, and trade secrets, are important components of our business. For example, we rely heavily upon our intellectual property and proprietary information in our content, brands, domain names and website URLs, software code, proprietary technology, ratings indexes, informational databases, images, graphics and other components that support and make up our services. We have acquired some of our intellectual property rights and proprietary information through acquisitions, as well as licenses and content agreements with third parties.
We protect our intellectual property and proprietary information through registration and by relying on our terms of use, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, as well as international, national, state and common law rights. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with employees and contractors, and license and confidentiality agreements with other third parties. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or our intellectual property and proprietary information without authorization which, if discovered, might require the uncertainty of legal action to correct. In addition, there can be no assurance that others will not independently and lawfully develop substantially similar properties.
We maintain our trademark portfolio by filing trademark applications with national trademark offices, maintaining appropriate registrations, securing contractual trademark rights when appropriate, and relying on common law trademark rights when appropriate. We also register copyrights and domain names as we deem appropriate and necessary, respectively. We protect our trademarks, copyrights and domain names with an enforcement program and use of intellectual property licenses. Trademark and intellectual property protection may not be available or may not be sought, sufficient or effective in every jurisdiction where we operate. Contractual disputes or limitations may affect the use of trademarks and domain names governed by private contract.
We have considered, and will continue to consider, the appropriateness of filing for patents to protect inventions and obtaining licenses in patents as circumstances may warrant. However, patents protect only specific inventions and there can be no assurance that others may not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents owned by us. We also protect some inventions and methods by maintaining them as trade secrets, either because it provides superior and potentially longer-termed protection, or because the invention is not patentable but provides us with a competitive advantage.
In connection with our copyrightable content, we post and institute procedures under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and similar Host Privilege statutes worldwide to gain immunity from copyright liability for photographs, text and other content uploaded by users. However, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, and moderation efforts may affect our ability to claim immunity.
From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement or infringement by us of the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any such litigation, regardless of outcome or
6
Table of Contents
merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could materially harm our business.
Regulation
We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the travel industry, the alternative accommodation industry and the provision of travel services, including registration in various states as “sellers of travel” and compliance with certain disclosure requirements and participation in state restitution funds In addition, our businesses are subject to regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation and must comply with various rules and regulations governing the provision of air transportation, including those relating to advertising and accessibility.
In international markets, we are increasingly subject to laws and regulations applicable to travel agents or tour operators in those markets, including, in some countries, pricing display requirements, licensing and registration requirements, mandatory bonding and travel indemnity fund contributions, industry specific value-added tax regimes and laws regulating the provision of travel packages. For example, the European Economic Community Council Directive on Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours imposes various obligations upon marketers of travel packages, such as disclosure obligations to consumers and liability to consumers for improper performance of the package, including supplier failure.
We are also subject to consumer protection, privacy and consumer data, labor, economic and trade sanction programs, tax, and anti-trust and competition laws and regulations around the world that are not specific to the travel industry. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) came into force in January 2020, which applies enhanced data protection requirements in the State of California similar to those that have existed since 2018 under the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Similar laws are currently under discussion in other jurisdictions.
Compliance with these laws, rules and regulation has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position as compared to prior periods. However, certain laws and regulations have not historically been applied in the context of online travel companies, so there can be uncertainty regarding how these requirements may relate to our business in the future.
Human Capital Management
People, Company Culture and Total Rewards
At Expedia Group, our mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good, and we are committed to making it more accessible and enjoyable for everyone. As of December 31, 2020, we have a team of 19,100 employees across more than 50 countries focused on using our extensive data and technology to create amazing travel experiences. As of December 31, 2020, more than one third of our people work in technology roles.
We aim to go above and beyond to take care of our people – giving them opportunities to grow and develop, and provide benefits that allow them to fuel their passion for travel and resources to help them take care of their well-being. While the competition for talent is fierce, particularly in the United States and Seattle, where our headquarters are located, we believe we offer something different: An opportunity to strengthen connections, broaden horizons and bridge divides through travel. We know the power of travel and understand the amazing things we can achieve by making it more accessible to everyone. And we are focused on attracting and retaining the best and brightest people to help us do that. To that end, we offer competitive compensation and differentiated benefits, including healthcare and retirement programs, wellness and travel reimbursement, an employee assistance program, an employee stock purchase program, time-off programs, volunteer days off, a transportation program, onsite medical care and travel discounts, among others.
Inclusion and Diversity
To best serve our employees, customers, partners and community, we aim to build inclusive and diverse workplaces that prioritize and value a sense of belonging, respect, voice and equal opportunity with initiatives such as:
•Employee-led Inclusion Business Groups, which are employee resource groups focused on promoting awareness related to race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, military status, disability and gender, as well as allyship for underrepresented identities;
•Learning programs addressing bias and exclusive practices within traditional recruitment, hiring and marketing processes;
•An employee onboarding program that includes a robust focus on intercultural awareness, ally skills and our Inclusion Business Groups;
7
Table of Contents
•Employment and hiring targets for women to occupy 50% of roles at all levels by the end of 2025 and for 25% of U.S. external hires to come from racially and ethnically underrepresented groups by the end of 2021;
•The utilization of employee surveys and external benchmarking to understand and address identity-based trends in order to set clear goals, create strategies and measure progress for increased headcount, hiring, compensation, advancement and retention of underrepresented employee groups; and
•Programs with our travel partners to focus on underserved travelers and drive industry engagement related to inclusion and diversity, and participation in outreach related to these efforts in local and global communities.
COVID-19 Response
The COVID-19 pandemic has led to an unprecedented disruption to the global travel industry. As the impact of the pandemic spread globally in 2020, our employees banded together and responded quickly to widespread travel cancellations and significant spikes in customer support call volumes. At the same time, substantially all of our offices were closed to protect the health of our employees who transitioned to working from their homes. Subsequently, we have opened certain of our global offices where it is safe to do so. We continue to actively monitor regional health guidance from local governments as it pertains to potential office openings and closures. The impact of the global pandemic also resulted in further headcount reductions through the course of 2020, as well as the implementation of furloughs and reduced work week programs for select, impacted volume-based teams. We also took a number of actions to provide additional support to our employees during the pandemic, including:
•A temporary, voluntary reduced work week program for employees who are parents and caregivers or who have other personal needs;
•The expansion of our wellness reimbursement program, which provides reimbursement for certain health and wellness expenses, to allow employees to use the benefit for the purchase of home office equipment, virtual mental and emotional health services and online education;
•Recognizing the current limitations on travel and the need for greater wellness assistance, we provided employees with the flexibility to use our travel reimbursement benefit program for health and wellness expenses;
•The creation of a COVID-19 Resource Center, providing quick access to important resources for employees working from home, including mental and physical health resources, access to our employee assistance program, regular updates from our Inclusion & Diversity Team, social discussion forums and updates on office closings and re-openings; and
•The launch of our Junior Journeys and a YMCA partnership, focused on connecting employees who are caregivers to resources that provide needed support for children, including homework help, IT support and storytelling. 
Equity Ownership and Voting Control
As of December 31, 2020, there were 138,073,922 shares of Expedia Group common stock and 5,523,452 shares of Expedia Class B common stock outstanding. Expedia Group stockholders are entitled to one vote for each share of common stock and ten votes for each share of Class B common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2020, Mr. Diller and The Diller Foundation d/b/a The Diller - von Furstenberg Family Foundation (the “Family Foundation”), on whose board of directors Mr. Diller and certain of his family members serve as directors, collectively owned 100% of Expedia Group’s outstanding Class B common stock (or, assuming conversion of all shares of Class B common stock into shares of common stock, collectively owned approximately 9% of Expedia Group’s outstanding common stock), representing approximately 29% of the total voting power of all shares of Expedia Group common stock and Class B common stock outstanding. Mr. Diller and the Family Foundation acquired the 5,523,452 shares of Expedia Class B common stock they currently own (the “Original Shares”) pursuant to an exchange of the same number of shares of Expedia Group common stock with Liberty Expedia Holdings, Inc. (“Liberty Expedia Holdings”) in connection with Expedia Group’s acquisition of Liberty Expedia Holdings on July 26, 2019. In addition, pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Governance Agreement between Expedia Group and Mr. Diller dated as of April 15, 2019 (the “Governance Agreement”), Mr. Diller had the right (the “Purchase/Exchange Right”), from time to time until April 26, 2020, to acquire up to 7,276,547 shares of Expedia Group Class B common stock by (1) exchange with Expedia Group (or its wholly owned subsidiary) for an equivalent number of shares of Expedia Group common stock or (2) purchase from Expedia Group (or its wholly owned subsidiary) at a price per share equal to the average closing price of Expedia Group common stock for the five trading days immediately preceding notice of exercise .
On April 10, 2020, the Company and Mr. Diller entered into Amendment No. 1 (the “Amendment”) to the Governance Agreement. The Amendment was entered into pursuant to the stipulation and order entered by the Delaware Court of Chancery on March 30, 2020 (the “Order”), and was approved by the Special Litigation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company formed to, among other things, investigate and evaluate the claims raised against certain current and former members of the Board of Directors and officers of the Company in the consolidated action captioned In re Expedia Group Stockholders
8
Table of Contents
Litigation, Consolidated Case No. 2019-0494-JTL (the “Delaware Litigation”). Pursuant to the Order, Mr. Diller was not permitted to exercise the Purchase/Exchange Right prior to the Special Litigation Committee notifying Mr. Diller that it had completed its investigation of the claims raised in the Delaware Litigation (the “Completion Date”). The Amendment extended the deadline by which Mr. Diller may have exercised the Purchase/Exchange Right to December 7, 2020 (the close of business on the forty-fifth day following the Completion Date). The Purchase/Exchange Right expired unexercised on December 7, 2020.
As a result of Mr. Diller’s ownership interests and voting power, and the governance arrangements between Mr. Diller and Expedia Group, Mr. Diller is in a position to influence, and potentially control, significant corporate actions, including corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets.
Additional Information
Company Website and Public Filings. We maintain a corporate website at www.expediagroup.com. Except as explicitly noted, the information on our website, as well as the websites of our various brands and businesses, is not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition, the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov, contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on the SEC's website referred to above in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K unless expressly noted.
Code of Ethics. We have adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Senior Financial Officers (the “Code of Ethics”) that applies to our Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, and is a “code of ethics” as defined by applicable rules of the SEC. The Code of Ethics is posted on our corporate website at www.expediagroup.com/Investors under the “Corporate Governance” tab. If we make any substantive amendments to the Code of Ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the Code of Ethics to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, we will disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver on that website or in a report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC.