General
Extra Space Storage Inc. (“we,” “our,” “us” or the “Company”) is a fully integrated, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust (“REIT”) formed as a Maryland corporation on April 30, 2004, to own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop self-storage properties (“stores”). We closed our initial public offering (“IPO”) on August 17, 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “EXR.”
We were formed to continue the business of Extra Space Storage LLC and its subsidiaries, which had engaged in the self-storage business since 1977. These companies were reorganized after the consummation of our IPO and various formation transactions. As of December 31, 2020 we owned and/or operated 1,921 stores in 40 states, Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico, comprising approximately 149.2 million square feet of net rentable space in approximately 1.4 million units.
We operate in two distinct segments: (1) self-storage operations; and (2) tenant reinsurance. Our self-storage operations activities include rental operations of wholly-owned stores. Tenant reinsurance activities include the reinsurance of risks relating to the loss of goods stored by tenants in our stores. For more information and comparative financial and other information on our reportable business segments, refer to the segment information footnote in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Substantially all of our business is conducted through Extra Space Storage LP (the “Operating Partnership”). Our primary assets are general partner and limited partner interests in the Operating Partnership. This structure is commonly referred to as an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Internal Revenue Code”). To the extent we continue to qualify as a REIT we will not be subject to U.S. federal tax, with certain exceptions, on our REIT taxable income that is distributed to our stockholders.
We file our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). You may obtain copies of these documents by visiting the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are furnished to the SEC, we make copies of these documents available to the public free of charge through our website at www.extraspace.com, or by contacting our Secretary at our principal offices, which are located at 2795 East Cottonwood Parkway, Suite 300, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, telephone number (801) 365-4600.
Management
Members of our executive management team have significant experience in all aspects of the self-storage industry. Our executive management team and their years of industry experience are as follows: Joseph D. Margolis, Chief Executive Officer, 16 years; Scott Stubbs, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, 20 years; Samrat Sondhi, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, 18 years; Gwyn McNeal, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer, 15 years; Matt Herrington, Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, 13 years; Noah Springer, Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Partnership Officer, 15 years; Zach Dickens, Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer, 18 years.
Our executive management team and board of directors have an ownership position in the Company with executive officers and directors owning approximately 2,887,647 shares or 2.2% of our outstanding common stock as of February 19, 2021.
Industry & Competition
Stores offer month-to-month rental of storage space for personal or business use. Tenants typically rent fully enclosed spaces that vary in size and typically range from 5 feet by 5 feet to 20 feet by 20 feet, with an interior height of 8 feet to 12 feet. Tenants have responsibility for moving their items into and out of their units. Stores generally have on-site managers who supervise and run the day-to-day operations, providing tenants with assistance as needed.
Self-storage provides a convenient way for individuals and businesses to store their possessions due to life changes, or simply because of a need for storage space. The mix of residential tenants using a store is determined by a store’s local demographics and often includes people who are experiencing life changes such as downsizing their living space or others who
4


are not yet settled into a permanent residence. Items that tenants place in self-storage are typically furniture, household items and appliances. Commercial tenants tend to include small business owners who require easy and frequent access to their goods, records, inventory or storage for seasonal goods.
Our research has shown that tenants choose a store based primarily on the convenience of the site to their home or business, making high-density, high-traffic population centers ideal locations for stores. A store’s visibility on the internet, price, perceived security, cleanliness, and the general professionalism of the store managers and staff are also contributing factors to a store’s ability to successfully secure rentals. Although most stores are leased to tenants on a month-to-month basis, tenants tend to continue their leases for extended periods of time.
The self-storage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. A greater portion of revenues and profits are realized from May through September. Historically, our highest level of occupancy has been at the end of July, while our lowest level of occupancy has been in late February and early March.
The self-storage industry is a mature industry that has seen the average occupancy continue to increase. According to the Self-Storage Almanac (the “Almanac”), in 2014, the national average physical occupancy rate was 89.1% of net rentable square feet, compared to an average physical occupancy rate of 92.2% in 2020. Our average occupancy for wholly-owned stores for 2020 was 93.1%.
The industry is also characterized by fragmented ownership. According to the Almanac, as of the end of 2020, the top ten self-storage companies in the United States operated approximately 21.4% of the total U.S. stores, and the top 50 self-storage companies operated approximately 27.4% of the total U.S. stores. We believe this fragmentation will contribute to continued consolidation at some level in the future.
We believe that we are well positioned to compete for acquisitions. We have encountered competition when we have sought to acquire existing operating stores, especially for brokered portfolios. Competitive bidding practices have been commonplace between both public and private entities, and this will likely continue.
We are the second largest self-storage operator in the United States. We are one of five public self-storage REITs along with CubeSmart, Life Storage, National Storage Affiliates and Public Storage.
Long-Term Growth and Investment Strategies
Our primary business objectives are to maximize cash flow available for distribution to our stockholders and to achieve sustainable long-term growth in cash flow per share in order to maximize long-term stockholder value both at acceptable levels of risk. We continue to evaluate a range of growth initiatives and opportunities. Our primary strategies include the following:
Maximize the performance of our stores through strategic, efficient and proactive management
We pursue revenue-generating and expense-minimizing opportunities in our operations. Our revenue management team seeks to maximize revenue by responding to changing market conditions through our advanced technology systems' ability to provide real-time, interactive rental rate and discount management. Our size allows us greater ability than the majority of our competitors to implement more effective online marketing programs, which we believe will attract more customers to our stores at a lower net cost.
We continually analyze our portfolio to look for long-term value-enhancing opportunities. We proactively redevelop properties to add units or modify existing unit mix to better meet the demand in a given market and to maximize revenue. We also redevelop properties to reduce their effective useful age, increase visual appeal, enhance security and to improve brand consistency across the portfolio.
Acquire self-storage stores
Our acquisitions team continues to pursue the acquisition of multi-store portfolios and single stores that we believe can provide stockholder value. We have established a reputation as a reliable, ethical buyer, which we believe enhances our ability to negotiate and close acquisitions. In addition, we believe our status as an UPREIT enables flexibility when structuring deals. We remain a disciplined buyer and only execute acquisitions that we believe will strengthen our portfolio and increase stockholder value.
In addition to the pursuit of stabilized stores, from time to time we develop stores from the ground up and provide the construction capital. We also purchase stores at the completion of construction from third party developers, who build to our specifications. These stores purchased at completion of construction (a "Certificate of Occupancy store"), create additional
5


long term value for our stockholders. We are typically able to acquire these assets at a lower price than a stabilized store, and expect greater long term returns on these stores on average. However, in the short term, these acquisitions cause dilution to our earnings during the two-to-four year period required to lease up the Certificate of Occupancy stores. We expect that this trend will continue in 2021 as we continue to acquire Certificate of Occupancy stores.
Grow our management business
Our management business enables us to generate increased revenues through management fees as well as expand our geographic footprint, data sophistication and scale with little capital investment. We believe this expanded footprint enables us to reduce our operating costs through economies of scale. In addition, we see our management business as a future acquisition pipeline. We pursue strategic relationships with owners whose stores would enhance our portfolio in the event an opportunity arises to acquire such stores.
Expand our bridge loan program
To broaden the opportunities available, we have implemented a bridge lending program, under which we provide financing to operating properties that we manage.  We anticipate that this program will help us increase our management business, create additional future acquisition opportunities, and strengthen our relationships with partners, all while providing interest and fee income. We generally originate mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, with the intent to sell the mortgage loans to third parties, while retaining our interests in the mezzanine loans.
Invest in other self-storage businesses selectively
We have recently made investments in preferred stock of other self-storage companies. These investments benefit us by not only providing dividend income, but also have increased our management business, creating additional future acquisition opportunities through creating and strengthening relationships with the companies in which we invest. We may pursue additional investment opportunities as they become available.
Financing of Our Long-Term Growth Strategies
Acquisition and Development Financing
As a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Consequently, we require access to additional sources of capital to fund our growth. We expect to maintain a flexible approach to financing growth. We plan to finance future acquisitions through a diverse capital optimization strategy which includes but is not limited to: cash generated from operations, borrowings under our revolving lines of credit (the "Credit Lines"), secured and unsecured financing, equity offerings, joint ventures and the sale of stores.
Credit Lines - We have three credit lines which we primarily use as short term bridge financing until we obtain longer-term financing through either debt or equity. As of December 31, 2020, our Credit Lines had available capacity of $1.2 billion, of which $241.0 million was undrawn.
Secured and Unsecured Debt - Historically, we had primarily used traditional secured mortgage loans to finance store acquisitions and development efforts. More recently, we obtain unsecured bank term loans and issue unsecured private placement bonds. We will continue to utilize a combination of secured and unsecured financing for future store acquisitions and development. As of December 31, 2020, we had $2.2 billion of secured notes payable and $2.6 billion of unsecured notes payable outstanding compared to $2.2 billion of secured notes payable and $2.7 billion of unsecured notes payable and senior exchangeable notes outstanding as of December 31, 2019.
Equity - We have an active "at the market" ("ATM") program for selling stock. We sell stock under the ATM program from time to time to raise capital when we believe conditions are advantageous. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we issued 899,048 shares of common stock through our ATM program and received net proceeds of approximately $103.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we issued 1,779,200 shares of common stock through our ATM program and received net proceeds of approximately $198.8 million.
We view equity interests in our Operating Partnership as another source of capital that can provide an attractive tax planning opportunity to sellers of real estate. We issue common and preferred Operating Partnership units to sellers in certain acquisitions. Common Operating Partnership units receive distributions equal to the dividends on common stock, while preferred Operating Partnership units receive distributions at various negotiated rates. We may issue additional units in the future when circumstances are favorable.
6


Joint Ventures - As of December 31, 2020, we owned 253 of our stores through joint ventures with third parties. Our joint venture partners typically provide most of the equity capital required for the acquisition of stores owned in these joint ventures. Most joint venture agreements include buy-sell rights, as well as rights of first offer in connection with the sale of stores by the joint venture. We generally manage the day-to-day operations of the stores owned in these joint ventures and have the right to participate in major decisions relating to sales of stores or financings by the applicable joint venture, but do not control the joint ventures.
Sale of Properties - We have not historically sold a high volume of stores, as we generally believe we are able to optimize the cash flow from stores through continued operations. However, we may sell more stores or interests in stores in the future in response to changing economic, financial or investment conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold four stores located in Florida for $46.6 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold one store located in New York for $11.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold one store located in California for $40.2 million.
Regulation
Generally, stores are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including regulations relating to lien sale rights and procedures and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Changes in any of these laws or regulations, as well as changes in laws, such as the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act, which increase the potential liability for environmental conditions or circumstances existing or created by tenants or others on stores, or laws affecting development, construction, operation, upkeep, safety and taxation may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, loss of stores or other impairments to operations, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, noncompliance with any of these laws, ordinances or regulations could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could require substantial capital expenditures to ensure compliance. Our stores are also subject to various state of emergency regulations enacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and expect such regulations to remain in effect throughout 2021.
Insurance activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with the McCarran-Ferguson Act, and are subject to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the privacy regulations promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant thereto. Store management activities may be subject to state real estate brokerage laws and regulations as determined by the particular real estate commission for each state. Changes in any of the laws governing our conduct could have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business or could materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Human Capital
As of December 31, 2020, we had 4,013 employees and believe our relationship with our employees is good. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining agreement. In 2020, we invited our employees to participate in an employee satisfaction survey. We achieved an overall satisfaction score of over 90%.
The Company offers competitive health benefits and encourages its employees to participate in employee health and wellness programs. Over 70% of our employees who are enrolled in our health plan participate in these programs. We offer individualized counseling to our employees to assist them with their journey towards better health. We also offer other health-oriented benefits such as smoking cessation programs and a fitness program that allows for reimbursements to employees for expenses incurred relating to fit-friendly activities, sports or exercise equipment.
In order to attract and retain top talent, we offer training and development opportunities for our employees. In 2020, we invested in training and development for our employees, which included leadership training, communication training, individual learning plans, site manager training and mentorship programs. Our field employees received on average 8.2 hours of training in 2020. Additionally, the Company provides its employees with an education assistance program through Western Governors University that allows our employees a path to an undergraduate degree in business or information technology through scholarships and other assistance.
The Company has always valued the safety of our employees and provides regular training for our employees to increase safety at our sites. During the pandemic, we chose to close our doors to in-person customers until we could install personal protective equipment for our employees. We understood that such a dramatic move would affect our revenues, but felt that as a company it was more important to ensure the safety of our employees. We moved quickly to put the necessary equipment in place and reopened with a safer and more sanitized environment for our employees.
7


The Company undertakes a wide spectrum of initiatives to attract and retain a diverse workforce. The Company has a Diversity and Inclusion Committee that has been active since 2018. During 2020, the Company launched implicit bias and allyship training for its employees, produced videos featuring our CEO discussing the importance of diversity and inclusion to the Company. The Company will continue to implement and pursue diversity and inclusion initiatives and goals that allow us to attract and retain top talent, improve employee engagement, increase innovation and customer insight and enhance the quality of our decision making. Forbes Magazine recently named the Company as a Best Employer for Diversity in 2020.
We believe that our emphasis on training and development, employee safety, employee health and well-being, and a commitment to diversity and inclusion leads to an increase in employee productivity and positions us to attract and retain top diverse talent.
