Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain “forward-looking statements” made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), regarding the expected or potential impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic (“COVID-19”) on our business, operations or financial condition in addition to statements regarding our general business strategies, anticipated market potential, future financial performance, the potential of our brands expected capital spending, expected pension contributions, the anticipated effects of recently issued accounting standards on our financial statements, planned business strategies, market potential, future financial performance and other matters. Statements that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “projects,” “estimates,” “plans” and similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as “will,” “should,” “would,” “may” and “could” are generally forward-looking in nature and not historical facts. Where, in any forward-looking statement, we express an expectation or belief as to future results or events, such expectation or belief is based on the expectations, estimates, assumptions and projection about our industry, business and future financial results available at the time this report is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) or, with respect to any documents incorporated by reference, available at the time such document was prepared or filed with the SEC. Although we believe that these statements are based on reasonable assumptions, they are subject to numerous factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those indicated in such statements. These factors include those listed in the section below entitled “Risk Factors.” Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events, new information or changes to future results over time or otherwise, except as required by the law.

Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to “Fortune Brands,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us” refer to Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Our Company

We are a leading home and security products company that competes in attractive long-term growth markets in our product categories. With a foundation of market-leading brands across a diversified mix of channels and lean and flexible supply chains, as well as a tradition of strong product innovation and customer service, we are focused on outperforming our markets in both growth and returns and driving increased stockholder value. As a manufacturer, conducting business ethically is a priority for our businesses. We continue to look for ways to improve our environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) programs and practices by focusing on ways to improve water conservation, waste reduction and carbon and climate impact, keeping our employees safe and creating a culture where all employees are treated with dignity and respect. We believe that advancing ESG initiatives are critical to making sure we continue to serve our customers with products that meet their needs.

We continue to have three business segments: Plumbing, Outdoors & Security and Cabinets. In the fourth quarter of 2020, our Doors & Security segment was renamed “Outdoors & Security” to better align with the segment’s strategic focus on the fast-growing outdoor living space and to better represent the brands within the segment, including the newly acquired Larson Manufacturing (“Larson”). The Outdoors & Security segment name change is to the name only and had no impact on the Company’s historical financial position, results of operations, cash flow or segment level results previously reported.

We sell our products through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented toward builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers, e-commerce and other retail outlets Despite increased pressures on commodity and logistics costs driven in part by tariffs, higher commodity costs and COVID-19, our performance during 2020 demonstrates the strength of our operating model and our ability to generate profitable growth as sales volume increases and we leverage our structural competitive advantages to gain share in our categories. We believe the Company’s impressive track record reflects the long-term attractiveness and potential of our categories and our leading brands.

Our Strategy

Build on leading business and brand positions in attractive growth and return categories. We believe that we have leading market positions and brands in many of our product categories in the United States. In 2020, we expanded further into the outdoor living market by acquiring Larson, the leading brand of storm, screen and security doors in North America. Larson’s suite of products creates a bridge from the inside to the outside of the home, and further strengthens the products offered by our Outdoors & Security segment. During 2020 and since acquiring Fiber Composites LLC (“Fiberon”) in 2018, we significantly expanded our distribution partnerships for our Fiberon brand in the U.S., including a major new distribution partnership with

1

Table of Contents

 

Orepac. In addition, our Cabinets segment continued to focus on growth initiatives in the value priced segments of the market. In Plumbing, we continued to grow our brand presence in our ”entry-level” demographics including millennial home buyers.

Continue to develop innovative products for customers, designers, installers and consumers. Sustained investments in consumer-driven product innovation and customer service, along with our low-cost structures, have contributed to our success in the marketplace and to gain share in our product categories. In 2020, our Global Plumbing Group (“GPG”) continued to develop products with our partners in the “whole home” and “smart home” water category including the Flo by Moen Smart Water Detector and U by Moen Smart Faucet. GPG also continued to work with partners in 2020 to develop new technologies and designs such as the Nebia by Moen spa shower and aromatherapy handshowers. In 2020, MasterBrand Cabinets, which provides a wide range of cabinets for the home, focused on the shift in the marketplace toward stock cabinetry by introducing its value-priced cabinet line into the U.S. Southwest region. In Cabinets, we continued to develop innovative new cabinet door designs, cabinet lighting systems, color palettes and features in a range of styles that allow consumers to create a custom kitchen look at an affordable price and introduced new, exclusive laminate door and finish options across multiple price segments. We continue to provide channel support with responsive websites featuring our cabinet brands that drives consumers to our partner/third-party dealers. The Therma-Tru portfolio of fashionable door and glass collections continues to evolve to meet current and emerging architectural design trends. In 2020, Fiberon expanded its offering of premium PVC decking products and also brought new products to its railing category. Master Lock continued to be an innovation leader in security and safety products and services, driven by consumer and end user focused insights with continued emphasis on electronic enabled solutions for enhanced capability and convenience. SentrySafe continued to provide a full portfolio of quality security, fire and water resistant safes to help consumers and small business owners protect documents and valuables.

Expand in international markets. We expect to have opportunities to expand sales by further penetrating international markets, which represented approximately 16% of net sales in 2020. We continue to develop our relationship with dealers and distributors and their Moen-branded stores throughout China. In our Cabinets segment, WoodCrafters introduced a variety of cabinetry products in Mexico.

Leverage our global supply chains. We are using lean manufacturing, design-to-manufacture and distributive assembly techniques to make our supply chains more flexible and improve supply chain quality, cost, response times and asset efficiency. We view our global supply chains and manufacturing presence as a strategic asset not only to support strong operating leverage as volumes increase, but also to enable the profitable growth of new products, adjacent market expansion and international growth. We believe our flexible supply chain will enable us to compete effectively during and after the COVID-19 pandemic.

Enhance returns and deploy our cash flow to high-return opportunities. We continue to believe our most attractive opportunities are to invest in profitable organic growth initiatives, pursue accretive strategic acquisitions, non-controlling equity investments, and joint ventures, and return cash to stockholders through a combination of dividends and repurchases of shares of our common stock. In 2020, we repurchased approximately 2.9 million shares of our outstanding common stock under the Company’s share repurchase program for $187.6 million and returned $133.3 million to stockholders through dividends. In December 2020, we acquired Larson, providing category expansion and product extension opportunities in the outdoor living space for our Outdoors & Security segment.

Invest in ESG initiatives that positively impact our employees and community and conduct business responsibly. As a manufacturer, conducting business ethically is a priority for our businesses. We believe that holding our team, our suppliers and the products that we deliver to a high set of standards strengthens our company and builds a foundation for lasting success and stockholder value creation. Employee safety is also a priority for our businesses and our emphasis on it has yielded strong results over time with fewer recordable incidents and lower lost time rates. Our Company enhanced our safety protocols and practices to provide safe workplaces for our employees during COVID-19. In 2020, we also took steps to raise awareness and build a more diverse, equitable and inclusive organization through training, inclusive culture councils and employee resource groups.

Our Competitive Strengths

We believe our competitive strengths include the following:

 

Leading brands. We have leading brands with sustainable competitive advantages in many of our product categories in the U.S. and China. We believe that established brands are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers in their respective categories and that we have the opportunity to, among other things, gain share in the marketplace and continue to strengthen many of our brands through cross-branding, expanding into adjacent product categories, and growing in international and e-commerce markets.

 

2

Table of Contents

 

 

Strategic focus on attractive consumer-facing categories. We believe we operate in categories that, while very competitive, are among the more attractive categories in the home products and security products markets. Some of the key characteristics that make these categories attractive in our view include the following:

•

product quality, innovation, fashion, finish, durability and functionality, which are key determinants of product selection in addition to price;

•

established brands, which are meaningful to both consumers and trade customers;

•

the opportunity to add value to a complex consumer purchasing decision with excellent service propositions, reliability of products, ease of installation and superior delivery lead times;

•

the value our products add to a home, particularly with kitchen and bath remodeling and additions offered by our Plumbing and Cabinet products, the curb appeal offered by stylish entry door systems and the expanding outdoor living market offered through our Fiberon and Larson brands;

•

favorable long-term trends in household formations that benefit the outlook for our markets over time;

•

the relatively stable demand for plumbing and security products; and

•

the opportunity to expand into adjacent categories.

 

Operational excellence. In 2020, we invested approximately $87.1 million to support long-term growth potential and new products both in the U.S. and international markets. In addition, our supply chains and low cost manufacturing structures allow us to adapt to challenging market conditions, including the impact from COVID-19 and tariffs. We believe that margin improvement will continue to be driven predominantly by organic volume growth accommodated by current production capacity, prioritized investments in higher growth areas, and leveraging best practices across our brands.

Commitment to innovation. We have a long track record of successful product and process innovations that introduce valued new products to our customers and consumers. We are committed to continuing to invest in new product development and enhance customer service to strengthen our leading brands and penetrate adjacent markets.

Diverse sales end-use mix. We sell in a variety of product categories and sales channels in the U.S. home and security products markets. In addition, our exposure to changing levels of U.S. residential new home construction activity is balanced with repair and remodel activity, which comprised a substantial majority of the overall U.S. home products market and about two-thirds of our U.S. home products sales in 2020. We also benefit from a stable market for plumbing and security products and international sales growth opportunities.

Strong sales and distribution channels. We sell through a wide array of sales channels, including kitchen and bath dealers, wholesalers oriented to builders or professional remodelers, industrial and locksmith distributors, “do-it-yourself” remodeling-oriented home centers, e-commerce and other retail outlets. We are able to leverage these existing sales channels to expand into adjacent product categories. In 2020, sales to our top ten customers represented less than half of total sales.

Leveraging cross-company experience. Our business segments are focused on distinct product categories and are responsible for their own performance while Operating Councils across our brands share best practices and common core capabilities. This structure enables each of our segments to independently best position itself within each category in which it competes, while gaining the benefit of cross-company synergies. This structure also reinforces strong accountability for operational and financial performance. Each of our segments focuses on its unique set of consumers, customers, competitors and suppliers, while also sharing best practices.

Strong capital structure. We exited 2020 with a strong balance sheet. As of December 31, 2020, we had $419.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt was $2,572.2 million, resulting in a net debt position of $2,153.1 million. In addition, we had $865.0 million available under our credit facilities as of December 31, 2020.

3

Table of Contents

 

Business Segments

We have three business segments:  Plumbing, Outdoors & Security and Cabinets. In the fourth quarter of 2020, our Doors & Security segment was renamed “Outdoors & Security” to better align with the segment’s strategic focus on the fast-growing outdoor living space and to better represent the brands within the segment, including the newly acquired Larson. The Outdoors & Security segment name change had no impact on the Company’s historical financial position, results of operations, cash flow or segment level results previously reported. The following table shows net sales for each of these segments and key brands within each segment:

 

Segment

 

2020

Net Sales

(in millions)

 

 

Percentage of

Total 2020

Net Sales

 

 

Key Brands

Plumbing

 

$

2,202.1

 

 

 

36.2

%

 

Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Victoria +Albert, Perrin & Rowe, Shaws

Outdoors & Security

 

 

1,419.2

 

 

 

23.3

%

 

Therma-Tru, Larson, Master Lock, Fiberon, SentrySafe, Fypon, American Lock

Cabinets

 

 

2,469.0

 

 

 

40.5

%

 

Aristokraft, Diamond Now, Mid-Continent, Homecrest, Kitchen Craft, Omega, EVE, Diamond Reflections, Diamond, Kemper, Schrock, Starmark, Ultracraft, Mantra

Total

 

$

6,090.3

 

 

 

100.0

%

 

 

 

Our segments compete on the basis of innovation, fashion, quality, price, service and responsiveness to distributor, retailer and installer needs, as well as end-user consumer preferences. Our markets are very competitive. Approximately 16% of 2020 net sales were to international markets, and sales to two of the Company’s customers, The Home Depot, Inc. (“The Home Depot”) and Lowe’s Companies, Inc. (“Lowe’s”), each accounted for more than 15% of the Company’s net sales in 2020. Sales to all U.S. home centers in the aggregate were approximately 31% of net sales in 2020.

Plumbing. Our Plumbing segment manufactures or assembles and sells faucets, accessories, kitchen sinks and waste disposals, predominantly under the Moen, ROHL, Riobel, Victoria+Albert, Perrin & Rowe and Shaws brands. Although this segment sells products principally in the U.S., China and Canada, this segment also sells in Mexico, Southeast Asia, Europe and South America. Approximately 31% of 2020 net sales were to international markets. This segment sells directly through its own sales force and indirectly through independent manufacturers’ representatives, primarily to wholesalers, home centers, mass merchandisers and industrial distributors. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 25% of net sales of the Plumbing segment in 2020. This segment’s chief competitors include Masco, Kohler, LIXIL Group, InSinkErator (owned by Emerson Electronic Company) and imported private-label brands.

Outdoors & Security. Our Outdoors & Security segment manufactures and sells fiberglass and steel entry door systems under the Therma-Tru brand name, storm, screen and security doors under the Larson brand name, composite decking and railing under the Fiberon brand name, and urethane millwork under the Fypon brand name. It also manufactures, sources and distributes locks, safety and security devices, and electronic security products under the Master Lock and American Lock brands and fire resistant safes, security containers and commercial cabinets under the SentrySafe brand. This segment sells products principally in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Central America, Japan and Australia. Approximately 11% of 2020 net sales were to international markets. This segment’s principal customers are home centers, hardware and other retailers, millwork building products and wholesale distributors, and specialty dealers that provide products to the residential new construction market, as well as to the remodeling and renovation markets. In addition, it sells lock systems and fire resistant safes to locksmiths, industrial and institutional users, and original equipment manufacturers. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 26% of net sales of the Outdoors & Security segment in 2020. Therma-Tru, Larson, Fiberon and Fypon brands compete with Masonite, JELD-WEN, Andersen, Trex, Azek, Plastpro, Pella and various regional and local suppliers. The Master Lock brand competes with Abus, W.H. Brady, Hampton, Allegion, Assa Abloy and various imports. The SentrySafe brand competes with Magnum, Fortress and Interlocks.

Cabinets. Our Cabinets segment manufactures high quality stock, semi-custom and custom cabinetry, as well as vanities, for the kitchen, bath and other parts of the home through a regional supply chain footprint to deliver high quality cabinets and service to our customers. This segment sells a portfolio of brands that enable our customers to differentiate themselves against competitors. This portfolio includes brand names such as, Aristokraft, Diamond Now, Mid-Continent, Homecrest, Kitchen Craft, Omega, EVE, Diamond Reflections, Diamond, Kemper, Schrock, Starmark, Ultracraft and Mantra. Substantially all of this segment’s sales are in North America. This segment sells directly to kitchen and bath dealers, home centers, wholesalers and large builders. In aggregate, sales to The Home Depot and Lowe’s comprised approximately 38% of net sales of the Cabinets segment in 2020. This segment’s competitors include Cabinetworks Group (formerly ACPI) and American Woodmark, as well as a large number of overseas, regional and local suppliers.

 

4

Table of Contents

 

 

For additional financial information for each of our business segments, refer to Note 18, “Information on Business Segments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other Information

Raw materials. The table below indicates the principal raw materials used by each of our segments. These materials are available from a number of sources. Volatility in the prices of commodities and energy used in making and distributing our products impacts the cost of manufacturing our products.

 

Segment

Raw Materials 

Plumbing

Brass, zinc, resins, stainless steel and aluminum

Outdoors & Security

Wood, resins, steel, glass, plastics, aluminum and insulating foam

Cabinets

Hardwoods (maple, birch and oak), plywood and particleboard

 

Intellectual property. Product innovation and branding are important to the success of our business. In addition to the brand protection offered by our trademarks, patent protection helps distinguish our unique product features in the market by preventing copying and making it more difficult for competitors to benefit unfairly from our design innovation. We hold U.S. and foreign patents covering various features used in products sold within all of our business segments. Although each of our segments relies on a number of patents and patent groups that, in the aggregate, provide important protections to the Company, no single patent or patent group is material to any of the Company’s segments.

Human Capital Resources. As of December 31, 2020, Fortune Brands had approximately 27,500 full-time and part-time employees worldwide (excluding contract workers). Approximately 77% of our workforce is composed of hourly production associates and the remaining population is composed of associates in a professional role. Approximately 15% of employees in the U.S. work under collective bargaining agreements. Below is a summary of the number of employees by segment and role:

Segment

 

Production Hourly

 

 

Professional

 

 

Total

 

Plumbing

 

 

2,478

 

 

 

1,998

 

 

 

4,476

 

Outdoors & Security

 

 

5,132

 

 

 

1,904

 

 

 

7,036

 

Cabinets

 

 

13,497

 

 

 

2,370

 

 

 

15,867

 

Corporate

 

 

—

 

 

 

126

 

 

 

126

 

Our employees are our greatest asset. The Company endeavors to create an environment that keeps our employees safe, treats them with dignity and respect and fosters a culture of performance. Fortune Brands does this through the programs summarized below, the objectives and related risks of each is overseen by our Board of Directors or one of its committees.

Health and Safety

Safety is a critical element to Fortune Brands’ growth strategy, integral to Company culture and one of our core values. Our Employee Safety & Environmental Stewardship Principles set standards for how we maintain a safe work environment and guides our business operations. The Company also has an Environmental, Health & Safety Leadership council comprised of representatives from across the Company’s businesses that share best practices and is responsible for driving environmental, health and safety strategy. This helps drive our best-in-class programs designed to reinforce positive behaviors, empower our employees to actively take part in maintaining a safe work environment, to heighten awareness and mitigate risk on critical safety components. Within each of our manufacturing and distribution facilities, we have site-specific safety and environmental plans designed to reduce risk.

 

COVID-19 Safety

 

Our safety focus was demonstrated in our response to the COVID-19 pandemic when we quickly acted to enhance our safety protocols and practices to provide safer workplaces for our associates and continue to operate our businesses during the pandemic.

 

During the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, Fortune Brands formed an organization-wide, cross-functional COVID-19 project management team to coordinate the Company's overall response and to make decisions that protect the safety and well-being of our employees. This team led efforts to develop and monitor business continuity plans and shared best practices so that the entire Company could benefit from our collective experiences.

 

5

Table of Contents

 

 

Our U.S. factory workers were generally deemed essential by the states where we operate and as a result, except for limited short term plant shut downs, our plants in the U.S. remained open throughout 2020. In addition, most of our plants outside of the U.S. remained open in 2020. Some of the ways that Fortune Brands’ enhanced employee safety during COVID-19:

 

 

•

Established physical distancing procedures for our production employees by adding extra shifts, staggering start and finish times and increasing space or adding barriers between stations;

 

•

Implemented temperature screening and health checks and mandated face coverings at the majority of our manufacturing facilities;

 

•

Adjusted attendance policies to encourage those who are sick to stay home and required associates to work remotely when possible.

 

The Company also enhanced benefit programs during COVID-19 to provide a leave of absence for COVID-19 related time off and provided telemedicine benefits at no cost to employees for four months. The Company also provided access to COVID-19 testing and amended its 401(k) savings plan to enhance hardship distributions and loan eligibility and repayment terms.

 

Attracting and Retaining Superior Talent

Total Rewards

 

As part of our compensation philosophy, we believe that we must offer and maintain market competitive total rewards program for our employees in order to attract and retain superior talent. These programs not only include base wages and performance based incentives, but also health, welfare and retirement benefits.

Creating a Culture of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”)

We strive to have an inclusive culture and diverse workforce, reflective of our consumers and communities. We believe that attracting and retaining talented and diverse employees will enable us to be more innovative, responsive to consumer needs and deliver strong performance and growth. In 2020, we took multiple actions to support an inclusive culture and increase representation and engagement of underrepresented associates.

 

In 2020, Fortune Brands joined the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion. We also implemented an unconscious bias learning program to the most senior leaders across the organization to increase DEI awareness and break bias in the decision making process, and plan to roll it out to more associates in the coming year. We also established a key partnership with Network of Executive Women to help focus on the development and advancement of women. These actions supplemented the Company’s (i) inclusive culture councils which are responsible for setting priorities and initiatives that support an inclusive work environment, and (ii) employee resource groups that support diversity, equity, and inclusion initiatives, provide networking and professional development opportunities.

Talent Development and Succession

We aim to inspire and equip our associates to be successful in their current role within the organization and help them to develop the skills to build on opportunities to grow their career. We understand our most critical roles that serve as points of leverage to deliver value and place our best people in those roles, while attracting new talent and capabilities in support of continuous improvement in all we do. Fortune Brands uses performance management programs to support a high-performance culture, strengthening our employee engagement and helping to retain our top talent. The Company provides associates with relevant skills training and provides leadership training for production associates in a supervisory role and mid-level professional associates. The Company also makes a significant investment in assessing our talent against the jobs both in the near term and in the future state and ensuring our leaders are prepared for greater levels of responsibility and can successfully transition into new roles.

 

Succession planning for critical roles is an important part of our talent program. Succession and development plans are created and monitored to ensure progress is made along established timelines.

Seasonality. All of our operating segments traditionally experience lower sales in the first quarter of the year when new home construction, repair and remodel activity and security buying are at their lowest. As a result of sales seasonality and associated timing of working capital fluctuations, our cash flow from operating activities is typically higher in the second half of the year.

6

Table of Contents

 

Environmental matters. We are involved in remediation activities to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Liabilities for remediation costs of each site are based on our best estimate of undiscounted future costs, excluding possible insurance recoveries or recoveries from other third parties. Uncertainties about the status of laws, regulations, technology and information related to individual sites make it difficult to develop estimates of future environmental remediation exposures. Some of the potential liabilities relate to sites we own, and some relate to sites we no longer own or never owned. Several of our subsidiaries have been designated as potentially responsible parties (“PRP”) under “Superfund” or similar state laws. As of December 31, 2020, ten such instances have not been dismissed, settled or otherwise resolved.  In 2020, none of our subsidiaries were identified as a PRP in a new instance and no instances were settled, dismissed or otherwise resolved. In most instances where our subsidiaries are named as a PRP, we enter into cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs. We give notice to insurance carriers of potential PRP liability, but very rarely, if ever, receive reimbursement from insurance for PRP costs. We believe that the cost of complying with the present environmental protection laws, before considering estimated recoveries either from other PRPs or insurance, will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had accruals of $0.3 and $0.2 million, respectively, relating to environmental compliance and cleanup including, but not limited to, the above mentioned Superfund sites.

Legal structure. Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. is a holding company that was initially organized as a Delaware corporation in 1988. Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company include MasterBrand Cabinets, Inc., Fortune Brands Global Plumbing Group LLC, Fortune Brands Doors, Inc. and Fortune Brands Storage & Security LLC. As a holding company, we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. Accordingly, the rights of the Company, and thus the rights of our creditors (including holders of debt securities and other obligations) and stockholders to participate in any distribution of the assets or earnings of any subsidiary is subject to the claims of creditors of the subsidiary, except to the extent that claims of the Company itself as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized, in which event the Company’s claims may in certain circumstances be subordinate to certain claims of others. In addition, as a holding company, the source of our unconsolidated revenues and funds is dividends and other payments from subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their abilities to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions with respect to their capital stock or other payments to the Company.

Available Information. The Company’s website address is www.FBHS.com. The Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports are available free of charge on the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished electronically with the SEC. Reports filed with the SEC are also made available on its website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website, or in printed form upon request, free of charge, our annual ESG report, Corporate Governance Principles, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Charters for the Committees of our Board of Directors and certain other information related to the Company.

