General
We are a pure-play agricultural sciences company, providing innovative solutions to growers around the world with a robust product portfolio fueled by a market-driven discovery and development pipeline in crop protection, plant health, precision agriculture, and professional pest and turf management. This powerful combination of advanced technologies includes leading insect control products based on Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active ingredients; Authority®, Boral®, Centium®, Command® and Gamit® branded herbicides; Isoflex™ active herbicide ingredient; Talstar® and Hero® branded insecticides(1); and flutriafol-based fungicides. The FMC portfolio also includes Arc™ farm intelligence and biologicals such as Quartzo® and Presence® bionematicides. Our products are used in agriculture to enhance crop yield and quality by controlling a broad spectrum of insects, weeds and disease, as well as in non-agricultural markets for pest and turf management.
FMC Strategy
We have streamlined our portfolio over the past ten years to become a tier-one leader and the fifth largest global innovation provider in the global agricultural chemicals market. Our strong competitive position is driven by our technology and innovation, as well as our geographic balance and crop diversity, which helped FMC to take market share in 2018, 2019, and 2020.
We have industry-leading insecticides and herbicides (the majority of which are patented technologies), exceptional discovery research capabilities and a global manufacturing network. We expect to spend approximately 6.5 percent of sales on research and development annually. Our R&D pipeline includes 11 molecules and biological strains in our development pipeline (approximately 1-7 years away from commercialization) and more than 25 additional molecules and biological strains in our discovery pipeline (approximately 8-10 years from commercialization). We expect the first four product launches, including the first two significant active ingredients, out of this pipeline will occur in 2021. We own and operate a total of 25 manufacturing plants, and we have the scale to operate with strong resources and global reach to address changing market conditions. Our supply chain organization effectively managed to continue supplying our customers and growing our business, despite multiple shutdowns and other disruptions in the Chinese chemical sector in 2018 and 2019. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we experienced logistics and supply chain constraints in the U.S., mostly due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We do not expect this to be completely resolved by the first quarter of 2021 but we are focused on ensuring we can mitigate supply chain risks and continue to expand our market growth opportunities. We posted solid overall results in 2020, despite numerous challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic. As an agricultural sciences company, we are considered an "essential" industry in the countries in which we operate; we have avoided significant plant closures and all our manufacturing facilities and distribution warehouses remain operational and fully staffed. We will continue to assess the need related to cost-saving measures as appropriate.
Our revenues grew approximately 1 percent, or 7 percent organically(2) excluding the impacts of foreign currency, year over year in 2020, driven by double-digit growth for our diamides, Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active ingredients. Though we saw growth in additional active ingredients, the aggregate of the rest of our portfolio (excluding diamides) amounted to a mid-single digit decline, inclusive of a 2 percent decline in product registrations and rationalizations, which mostly offset the diamide growth discussed above. Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® actives now represent over $1.8 billion in combined sales, representing approximately 55 percent growth since we acquired these molecules in November 2017. Products launched in 2020 and 2019 also contributed to revenue growth. We successfully launched our new bixafen fungicide under the Lucento® fungicide brand in North America in 2019, and we are on track to accomplish the $30 million to $50 million revenue target for this new active ingredient. We also launched several new formulated products in 2020, which is key to lifecycle management of our products. Approximately $50 million of our 2020 revenue growth came from 2020 product launches.
FMC performed slightly better than the overall crop protection market in 2020, which we estimate was flat versus 2019. Growth for FMC and the market was offset by significant headwinds from foreign currency. As mentioned above, our growth rate was 1 percent, and excluding the impact of foreign currency, our organic(1) growth rate was 7 percent. FMC’s innovation, starting with our current portfolio of advanced products and continuing through our R&D discovery, development and new formulations, contributed to our performance. Our technology portfolio includes specific innovations in plant health, application technology and delivery systems, as well as advanced agronomic insights through Arc™ farm intelligence, our precision agriculture tool that leverages artificial intelligence and machine learning.
4
Table of Contents
____________________ 
(1)    Hero® insecticide is a restricted use pesticide in the U.S.
(2)    Organic revenue growth is a non-GAAP term which excludes the impact of foreign currency changes. Refer to the "Results of Operations" section of our Management's Discussion and Analysis in Item 7 for our organic revenue non-GAAP reconciliation.
Acquisitions and Divestitures
In May 2020, FMC entered into a binding offer with Isagro S.p.A ("Isagro") to acquire the remaining rights for Fluindapyr active ingredient assets from Isagro. In July 2020, we entered into an asset sale and purchase agreement with Isagro. On October 2, 2020, we closed on the transaction with a purchase price of approximately $65 million. Fluindapyr has been jointly developed by FMC and Isagro under a 2012 research and development collaboration agreement. The transaction provides FMC with full global rights to the Fluindapyr active ingredient, including key U.S., European, Asian, and Latin American fungicide markets. The transaction transfers to FMC all intellectual property, know-how, registrations, product formulations and other global assets of the proprietary broad-spectrum fungicide molecule. The acquired assets have been classified as in-process research and development. See Note 9 in the consolidated financial statements included within this Form 10-K for accounting considerations. The transaction will expand our fungicide portfolio by giving us full global rights to the Fluindapyr active ingredient and is an important strategic addition to our product line.
In 2019, we completed the separation of our FMC Lithium segment, which was renamed Livent Corporation, or "Livent", following its initial public offering ("IPO") that closed on October 15, 2018. After completion of the IPO, FMC owned 123 million shares of Livent's common stock, representing approximately 84 percent of the total outstanding shares of Livent's common stock. On March 1, 2019, we completed the distribution of 123 million shares of common stock of Livent as a pro rata dividend on shares of FMC. Following the distribution, FMC has zero shares of Livent and zero exposure to lithium markets. The financial information within this filing has been recast to present the former FMC Lithium as a discontinued operation retrospectively for all relevant periods presented.

Financial Information About Our Business
(Financial Information in Millions)
The following table shows the principal products produced by our business, its raw materials and uses:
Product	Raw Materials	Uses	Insecticides	Synthetic and biological chemical intermediates	Protection of crops, including soybean, corn, fruits and vegetables, cotton, sugarcane, rice, and cereals, from insects and for non-agricultural applications including pest control for home, garden and other specialty markets	Herbicides	Synthetic and biological chemical intermediates	Protection of crops, including cotton, sugarcane, rice, corn, soybeans, cereals, fruits and vegetables from weed growth and for non-agricultural applications including turf and roadsides	Fungicides	Synthetic and biological chemical intermediates	Protection of crops, including cereals, fruits and vegetables from fungal disease 

With a worldwide manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, we are better able to respond rapidly to global customer needs, offset downward economic trends in one region with positive trends in another and match local revenues to local costs to reduce the impact of currency volatility. The charts below detail our sales by major geographic region and major product category.

fmc-20201231_g1.jpg

5
Table of Contents

The following table provides our long-lived assets by major geographical region:
(in Millions)	December 31,	2020		2019	Long-lived assets				North America	$	1,230.2 			$	1,190.7 		Latin America	792.7 			837.0 		Europe, Middle East, and Africa	1,513.9 			1,448.0 		Asia	2,044.4 			2,064.8 		Total	$	5,581.2 			$	5,540.5 	 

fmc-20201231_g2.jpg

Products and Markets
Our portfolio is comprised of three major pesticide categories: insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. The majority of our product lines consist of insecticides and herbicides, and we have a small but fast-growing portfolio of fungicides mainly used in high value crop segments. Our insecticides are used to control a wide spectrum of pests, while our herbicide portfolio primarily targets a large variety of difficult-to-control weeds. We are also investing substantially in a plant health program that includes biological crop protection products, seed treatments and micro-nutrients. Biological technologies developed by FMC’s R&D team in Denmark offer excellent sustainability profiles and serve as strong complements to our synthetic products. Our biologicals feature attributes that exceed the competition, such as high stability, long shelf life, low use rates and compatibility with other chemistries.
In the Latin American region, which includes the large agricultural market of Brazil, we sell directly to large growers through our own sales and marketing organization, and we access the market through independent distributors and co-ops. In North America, we access the market through several major national and regional distributors and have our own sales and marketing organization in Canada. We access the Europe, Middle East & Africa markets through our own sales and marketing organizations. We access key Asian markets through large distributors, in addition to either local independent distributors or our own sales and marketing organizations. Through these and other alliances, along with our own targeted marketing efforts, access to novel technologies and our innovation initiatives, we expect to maintain and enhance our access in key agricultural and non-crop markets and develop new products that will help us continue to compete effectively.
Industry Overview
The three principal categories of agricultural and non-crop chemicals are: herbicides, insecticides and fungicides, representing approximately 40 percent, 30 percent and 28 percent of global industry revenue, respectively.
The agrochemicals industry is more consolidated following several recent mergers of the leading crop protection companies, which now include FMC, ChemChina (owner of Syngenta Group, which includes the former Syngenta and Adama), Bayer AG
6
Table of Contents
(acquired Monsanto in 2018), BASF AG and Corteva Agriscience (the agricultural division of former DowDuPont, spun out in June 2019). These five innovation companies currently represent approximately 75 percent of the crop protection industry’s global sales. The next group of agrochemical producers include UPL Ltd. (UPL also acquired Arysta in February 2019), Sumitomo Chemical Company Ltd., and Nufarm Ltd. FMC employs various differentiated strategies and competes with unique technologies focusing on certain crops, markets and geographies, while also being supported by a low-cost manufacturing model.
Growth
We are among the leading agrochemical producers in the world. Some of our key insecticides are predominantly based on patent-protected active ingredients and continue to grow well above market patterns. Our complementary technologies combine improved formulation capabilities and a broader innovation pipeline, resulting in new and differentiated products. We will take advantage of enhanced market access positions and an expanded portfolio to deliver near-term growth.
We will continue to grow by obtaining new and approved uses for existing product lines and acquiring, accessing, developing, marketing, distributing and/or selling complementary chemistries and related technologies in order to strengthen our product portfolio and our capabilities to effectively service our target markets and customers.
Our growth efforts focus on developing environmentally compatible and sustainable solutions that can effectively increase farmers’ yields and provide cost-effective alternatives to chemistries which may be prone to resistance. We are committed to providing unique, differentiated products to our customers by acquiring and further developing technologies as well as investing in innovation to extend product life cycles. Our external growth efforts include product acquisitions, in-licensing of chemistries and technologies and alliances that bolster our market access, complement our existing product portfolio or provide entry into adjacent spaces. We have entered into a range of development and distribution agreements with other companies that provide access to new technologies and products which we can subsequently commercialize.
In 2020, we announced the launch of our Arc™ farm intelligence platform, an exclusive precision agriculture platform that enables growers and advisors to more accurately predict pest pressure before it becomes a problem. Nearly 4 million acres across six countries were covered by our platform during its pilot rollout. It is expanding significantly and supports product recommendations for multiple FMC active ingredients, led by our diamides. We have other precision agriculture initiatives and new product launches such as Isoflex™ herbicide. We also launched FMC Ventures, our new venture capital arm targeting strategic investments in start-ups and early-stage companies that are developing and applying emerging technologies in the agricultural industry. The group will be making small, seed type investments.
Diamide Growth Strategy
Our product portfolio features two key diamide-class molecules – Rynaxypyr® (chlorantraniliprole) and Cyazypyr® (cyantraniliprole) actives – with combined annual revenues of approximately $1.8 billion in 2020. These two molecules are industry-leading in terms of performance, combining highly effective low dose rates with fast-acting, systemic, long residual control. These attributes quickly established Rynaxypyr® active as the world’s leading insect control technology and we expect it to continue on a strong growth trajectory notwithstanding the expiration of composition of matter patents covering Rynaxypyr® active in certain countries starting in late 2022. Our Cyazypyr® active, a second-generation diamide, is growing quickly as we obtain more product registrations. We expect it to continue to grow strongly notwithstanding the expiration of its active ingredient composition of matter patents starting in the mid-2020s. This expectation is based on not only our broad patent estate and the timing of key patent milestones, but also on other critical elements that will allow FMC to continue to profitably grow the diamide franchise well beyond the expiration of key patents. These other critical elements include registration and data protection, commercial strategies, brand recognition, as well as manufacturing and supply chain complexity and FMC efficiencies.
Patents and Trade Secrets. The FMC diamide insect control patent estate is made up of many different patent families which cover: Composition of matter – both active ingredients and certain intermediates; Manufacturing processes – both active ingredients and certain intermediates; Formulations; Uses; and Applications. For Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® actives related patents, as of December 31, 2020, we had 33 families with granted patents filed in up to 76 countries, with a total of 897 active granted patents as well as numerous pending patent applications. See "Patents, Trademarks and Licenses" within this Item 1 for more details. FMC’s process patents cover the manufacturing processes for both active ingredients – chlorantraniliprole and cyantraniliprole – as well as key intermediates that are used to make the final products. Chlorantraniliprole is a complex molecule to produce, requiring 16 separate steps; FMC owns granted patents covering many of these 16 process steps and several of the intermediate chemicals, and we protect other aspects of the manufacturing processes by trade secret. Cyantraniliprole is similarly complex and covered by a comparable range of intellectual property. Many of these intermediate process patents run well past the expiration of the composition of matter patents, and in some cases stretch until the end of this decade. Third parties that intend to manufacture and sell generic chlorantraniliprole or cyantraniliprole and rely on FMC’s extensive product safety data will be required to demonstrate that their product has the same regulatory safety profile as FMC Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® actives. To meet regulatory requirements for such difficult-to-manufacture molecules, we believe
7
Table of Contents
that third parties will have to produce these active ingredients using the same processes that are patented by FMC and if so, would be infringing before patent expiration and subject to our challenge for infringement. FMC also owns formulation patents which cover the use of chlorantraniliprole or cyantraniliprole in specific formulations found in commercially important end-use products.
Regulatory Data Protection. In addition to the patent estate, various pesticide laws and regulations around the world offer added protection to the initial active ingredient registrant in the form of data protection and registration timelines that can extend after the composition or process patents have expired. These rules can effectively provide a product innovator and initial active ingredient registrant such as FMC with a further period of exclusive use of the key reference data even after the applicable AI composition of matter patents have expired. Further, in certain countries, even after the period of exclusive use has expired, a generic entrant seeking to rely on the initial registrant’s reference data may have to pay significant compensation to the initial registrant. For FMC’s diamide products, such rights apply in key markets including United States, Brazil and the European Union.
Growing the Branded FMC Diamide Franchise. FMC is executing its strategy to supply end-use pesticide products that include Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® actives to a broad range of companies prior to patent expiration, and in return establishing long-term commitments from the companies to purchase the diamide active ingredients from FMC. These arrangements may also include limited patent, data and/or trademark licenses. Such partner relationships allow us to grow our business by having others develop and sell diamide-based products to meet farmers' needs not within our current portfolio, offering those farmers a better alternative to competing insecticides with product safety or efficacy profiles which are less attractive than Rynaxypyr® or Cyazypyr® actives. These agreements can require the third party to use the well-known and trusted Rynaxypyr® or Cyazypyr® brand names on the end-use products formulated with active ingredient supplied by FMC. As of December 31, 2020, we had global agreements with four major multinational companies and approximately 50 separate local-country agreements covering 14 countries. We are continuing to explore opportunities with additional companies beyond those with whom we are already engaged.
Complexity of manufacturing. Today FMC manufactures all the required intermediates in the multi-step processes, as well as the final Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® actives, at our own active ingredient manufacturing plants or through key contract manufacturers who produce under long-term exclusive technology-license agreements. For a third party to replicate this complex supply chain and manufacturing network would be a major undertaking with very large capital requirements. In addition, given our manufacturing know-how, scale of our operations, and continual investment in manufacturing process improvement, we believe FMC’s manufacturing costs will be substantially lower than any other party seeking to produce these diamide products.
Collectively, these four factors -- deep patent estate, proprietary regulatory data, strong commercial approach leveraging our brand recognition, and capabilities of managing large scale manufacturing complexity – provide us the basis for our expectation that FMC will be the company of choice to supply chlorantraniliprole and cyantraniliprole products to third-party partners, and ultimately to farmers, well into the future.
Source and Availability of Raw Materials
We utilize numerous vendors to supply raw materials and intermediate chemicals to support operations. These materials are sourced on a global basis to strategically balance FMC’s vendor portfolio.
Patents, Trademarks and Licenses
As an agricultural sciences company, FMC believes in innovation and in protecting that innovation through intellectual property rights. We own and license a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property that are cumulatively important to our business. In addition, we seek to license our proprietary technologies through partnering arrangements that effectively allow us to capitalize from our intellectual property. The FMC intellectual property estate provides us with a significant competitive advantage which we seek to expand and renew on a continual basis. We manage our technology investment to discover and develop new active ingredients and biological products, as well as to continue to improve manufacturing processes and existing active ingredients through new formulations, mixtures or other concepts. FMC’s technology innovation processes capture those innovations and protect them through the most appropriate form of intellectual property rights. We also in-license certain active ingredients and other technologies under patents held by third parties, and have granted licenses to certain of our patents to third parties.
Our patents cover many aspects of our business, including our chemical and biological active ingredients, intermediate chemicals, manufacturing processes to produce such active ingredients or intermediates, formulations, and product uses, as well as many aspects of our research and development activities that support the FMC new product pipeline. Patents are granted by individual jurisdictions and the duration of our patents depends on their respective jurisdictions and payment of annuities.
8
Table of Contents
As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned a total of approximately 220 active granted U.S. patents and 2,600 active granted foreign patents (includes Supplemental Patent Certificates); we also have approximately 1,600 patent applications pending globally.
In our current product portfolio, our diamide insect control products based on Rynaxypyr® (Chlorantraniliprole) and Cyazypyr® (Cyantraniliprole) active ingredients have a substantial patent estate which will remain in force well into the future. More details regarding our diamide granted patent estate are set forth in the tables below:

Numbers of active Granted Patents by type*: Chlorantraniliprole and Cyantraniliprole, as of December 31, 2020		United States		Foreign	Active Ingredients	21		252	Intermediates and Methods of Manufacturing	23		254	Formulations/Mixtures/Applications	9		338	Total	53		844 
*Patent families were only placed under one type but may cover several types.


Remaining Life of Granted Patents: Chlorantraniliprole and Cyantraniliprole, as of December 31, 2020
United States		Foreign	Through December 31, 2025	36		550	2026 - 2030	15		266	2031 - 2036	2		28	Total	53		844 

We also own many trademarks that are well recognized by customers or product end-users. Unlike patents, ownership rights in trademarks can be continued indefinitely so long as the trademarks are properly used and renewal fees are paid.
We actively monitor and manage our patents and trademarks to maintain our rights in these assets and we strategically take aggressive action when we believe our intellectual property rights are being infringed. While we believe that the invalidity or loss of any particular patent, trademark or license would be a remote possibility, our patent and trademark estate related to our diamide insect control products based on Rynaxypyr® and Cyazypyr® active ingredients in the aggregate are of material importance to our operations.
Seasonality
The seasonal nature of the crop protection market and the geographic spread of our business can result in significant variations in quarterly earnings among geographic locations. Our products sold in the northern hemisphere (North America, Europe and parts of Asia) serve seasonal agricultural markets from March through September, generally resulting in significant earnings in the first and second quarters, and to a lesser extent in the fourth quarter. Markets in the southern hemisphere (Latin America and parts of the Asia Pacific region, including Australia) are served from July through February, generally resulting in earnings in the third, fourth and first quarters.
Competition
We encounter substantial competition in our business. We market our products through our own sales organization and through alliance partners, independent distributors and sales representatives. The number of our principal competitors varies from market to market. In general, we compete by providing advanced technology, high product quality, reliability, quality customer and technical service, and by operating in a cost-efficient manner.
Our business competes primarily in the global chemical crop protection market for insecticides, herbicides and fungicides. Industry products include crop protection chemicals and, for certain major competitors, genetically engineered (crop biotechnology) products. Competition from generic agrochemical producers is significant as a number of key product patents have expired in the last two decades. In general, we compete as an innovator by focusing on product development, including novel formulations, proprietary mixes, and advanced delivery systems and by acquiring or licensing (mostly) proprietary chemistries or technologies that complement our product and geographic focus. We also differentiate ourselves by our global cost-competitiveness through our manufacturing strategies, establishing effective product stewardship programs and developing strategic alliances that strengthen market access in key countries and regions.
9
Table of Contents
Research and Development Expense
The R&D efforts in our business focus on discovering and developing environmentally sound solutions — both new active ingredients and new product formulations — that meet the needs of farmers to maximize yields and control pests by providing new products that utilize both existing and new active ingredient chemistries. On June 24, 2019, we announced our investment of more than $50 million at our FMC Stine Research Center in Newark, Delaware, to upgrade infrastructure and complete construction on a new state-of-the-art, greenhouse and laboratory facility. Due to the pandemic, work on the greenhouse project did not progress as anticipated during 2020. We anticipate that the project will be completed by 2023.
Environmental Laws and Regulations
A discussion of environmental related factors can be found in Item 7 "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and in Note 12 "Environmental Obligations" in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K.
Human Capital
Employees
We employ approximately 6,400 people with about 1,500 people in our domestic operations and 4,900 people in our foreign operations.
Approximately 3 percent of our U.S.-based and 33 percent of our foreign-based employees, respectively, are represented by collective bargaining agreements. We have successfully concluded most of our recent contract negotiations without any material work stoppages. In those rare instances where a work stoppage has occurred, there has been no material effect on consolidated sales and earnings. We cannot predict, however, the outcome of future contract negotiations. In 2021, six foreign collective-bargaining agreements will be expiring. These contracts affect approximately 15 percent of our foreign-based employees. There are no U.S. collective-bargaining agreements expiring in 2021.
Talent Engagement and Retention
At FMC, it is important that we focus our programs and initiatives on sustaining strong leaders who are committed to engaging and developing their employees, so they can lead competitively, innovate change, improve business performance, and successfully maintain a competitive advantage. FMC’s leadership development program components include in-class and self-paced learning, development planning and stretch assignments, project-based action learning and rotational learning, mentoring and coaching, and leadership and functional assessments. Our programs are designed to provide engaging, collaborative, and creative learning environments. Employees leverage their experiences in these programs to develop their leadership abilities to their highest levels, enabling them to deliver innovative solutions, strong results and continued growth. Three of our signature leadership programs are science of leadership, the art of leadership, and keys to leadership. We hold quarterly Town Hall meetings and engage with our employees continuously through regular email updates, social media, webcasts, and other channels. We ask our employees to complete surveys and participate in focus groups, we distribute certain reports to keep our employees informed, we require our employees to complete specific trainings and we are piloting a voluntary e-learning program with other development and learning opportunities. We also reach out to new talent through social media.
FMC continually strives to meet the needs of our employees, shareholders, and customers through competitive rewards, policies, and practices that support the company as an employer of choice in every market where we compete for talent. FMC compensates employees through total reward programs that are aligned with performance and competencies. Performance-based direct pay programs include competitive base pay, annual bonus opportunities, sales incentive plans, and long-term incentives. These compensation elements along with benefits, work-life flexibility, recognition awards, talent and career development, enable FMC to offer a comprehensive total reward package designed for employees throughout their career. We also enhanced our offerings during the COVID-19 pandemic to better support our employees and their families by:
•Paying our essential workers a special recognition award
•Fully covering the costs of COVID-19 testing and vaccines
•Expanding our Dependent Care offerings
•Providing more flexibility in taking out 401K loans
•Enhancing Employee Assistance Program presentations and offerings to assist employees with mental well being
•Expanding flexible work opportunities
10
Table of Contents
Culture and Inclusion
We strive to be an inclusive workplace where our employees reflect the community, are valued, find purpose in their work, and grow and contribute to their fullest potential. We are broadening investments in social areas, including Diversity and Inclusion and racial and gender equity. We launched two task forces, one on Social Justice and Racial Equity, and the other focused on Gender Equity. Our goal for 2027 is to have Black/African American representation in our U.S. workforce to be 14 percent and female representation to be 50 percent of our global workforce across all regions and job levels. The company has developed new global policies and practices to attract and hire talented individuals from underrepresented minorities. For every new hire we now require diverse candidate slates and multiple dimensions of diversity represented by each interview panel. We are expanding our applicant pools and pipelines by adding a new Human Resource role for diversity talent sourcing and partnering with an external recruiting agency specializing in diverse hiring. Diverse views, backgrounds and experiences are key to our success. We launched three additional Employee Resource Groups ("ERGs") in 2019. FMC has six total ERGs with more than twenty employee resource group chapters. We scored 100 percent on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2021 Corporate Equality Index, a U.S. benchmarking survey measuring corporate policies and practices related to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer ("LGBTQ") workplace equality. This is our second consecutive year receiving a score of 100 percent. Over the past several years, we have had significant policy changes related to parental leave and domestic partner and transgender inclusion benefits in the U.S. Due to our diversity and inclusion strategy, women in senior management positions increased from 32 percent in 2019 to 34 percent in 2020.
Safety
Safety is a core value of FMC. At FMC, people come first. We strive for an injury-free workplace, where every employee returns home the same way they arrived. We encourage a culture of open reporting, so we can learn from our mistakes and work towards continuous improvement in behaviors and processes. As a result of our firm commitment to safety, our 2020 TRIR of 0.08 is among the lowest in the industry globally and in the upper decile of peer companies in North America, placing our company among the safest organizations in the chemical industry. This milestone underscores our employees’ commitment to work every day with safety at the forefront of their thoughts and actions. We empower our employees to always put safety first. 2020 presented us with the unique challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic. FMC responded by enacting robust Business Continuity Plans ("BCPs") to ensure continued safe operation at all of our manufacturing sites. These BCPs have been so effective, FMC has not experienced an on-site transmission of the virus to date. In 2021, we continue our journey, focusing on improving management systems and tools. In addition, we continue to engage our global workforce through focused campaigns which address issues and trends identified through analysis of our environment, health and safety data – for example – our current TH!NK. SAFE. campaign addressing "Line of Fire" injuries.
Sustainability
We are committed to delivering products that maintain a safe and secure food supply and to do so in a way that protects the environment for future generations. To reflect this commitment, we reset our sustainability goals in October 2019 to challenge ourselves and ensure that we are helping to create a better world. Our new goals include achieving (i) 100 percent research and development spend on developing sustainable products by 2025, (ii) <0.1 Total Recordable Incident Rate ("TRIR") by 2025, (iii) a 25 percent reduction in Energy Intensity by 2030, (iv) a 25 percent reduction in Green House Gas ("GHG") emissions intensity by 2030, (v) a 20 percent reduction in Water-Use Intensity in High-Risk Locations by 2030, (vi) a sustained Waste Disposed Intensity through 2030 (from our 2018 base year level), and (vii) a 100 on the Community Engagement Index by 2025. In 2020, FMC made progress towards meeting its commitments on the updated goals.
FMC developed and utilizes its award-winning Sustainability Assessment Tool to determine the sustainability of new active ingredients and formulated products in the research and development pipeline and to evaluate products currently on the market. This assessment, along with other stewardship processes and tools, ensures the introduction and continued use of environmentally sustainable agricultural solutions.
At FMC we promote stewardship at each stage of the product life cycle, and stewardship priorities are built into the core of research and development, portfolio and marketing strategies for a truly proactive approach. We continue to strive for open and transparent communications about our product stewardship successes and challenges. FMC is continuing to phase out Highly Hazardous Pesticides ("HHPs") from our product portfolio. In 2020, HHPs accounted for less than 0.4 percent of our total sales.
SEC Filings
SEC filings are available free of charge on our website, www.fmc.com. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports are posted as soon as practicable after we furnish such materials to the SEC.
11
Table of Contents
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURES
The Company’s investor relations website, located at https://investors.fmc.com, should be considered as a recognized channel of distribution, and the Company may periodically post important information to the web site for investors, including information that the Company may wish to disclose publicly for purposes of complying with the federal securities laws and our disclosure obligations under the SEC's Regulation FD. We encourage investors and others interested in the Company to monitor our investor relations website for material disclosures. Our website address is included in this Form 10-K as a textual reference only and the information on the website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.
