Background

Fox Corporation, a Delaware corporation, is a news, sports and entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in the following segments:

 

•

Cable Network Programming, which principally consists of the production and licensing of news and sports content distributed primarily through traditional cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunication companies (“traditional MVPDs”) and online multi-channel video programming distributors (“digital MVPDs”), primarily in the U.S.

 

•

Television, which principally consists of the acquisition, marketing and distribution of broadcast network programming nationally under the FOX brand and the operation of 29 full power broadcast television stations, including 11 duopolies, in the U.S. Of these stations, 18 are affiliated with the FOX Network, 10 are affiliated with MyNetworkTV and one is an independent station. The Television segment also includes Tubi, Inc. (“Tubi”), a free advertising-supported video-on-demand (“AVOD”) service.

 

•

Other, Corporate and Eliminations, which principally consists of the FOX Studio Lot, Credible Labs Inc. (“Credible”), corporate overhead costs and intracompany eliminations. The FOX Studio Lot, located in Los Angeles, California, provides television and film production services along with office space, studio operation services and includes all operations of the facility. Credible is a U.S. consumer finance marketplace.

Unless otherwise indicated, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this “Annual Report”) for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2020 (“fiscal 2020”) to “FOX,” the “Company,” “we” or “us” mean Fox Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

FOX became a standalone publicly traded company on March 19, 2019, when Twenty-First Century Fox, Inc. (now known as TFCF Corporation) (“21CF”) distributed, on a pro rata basis, all the issued and outstanding common stock of the Company to 21CF stockholders. Following the distribution, the Company’s class A common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “class A common stock”) and class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the “class B common stock” and, together with the class A common stock, the “common stock”) began trading independently on The Nasdaq Global Select Market. We refer to the foregoing as the “Transaction.”

In connection with the Transaction, the Company was formed with a focused portfolio of domestic media assets in live news and sports and original entertainment programming, including leading brands FOX News Media, FOX Sports, FOX Entertainment and FOX Television Stations. The remaining 21CF assets were acquired by The Walt Disney Company (“Disney”) through a series of transactions contemplated by the amended and restated merger agreement among 21CF, Disney and certain Disney subsidiaries, pursuant to which 21CF became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Disney (the “Disney Merger”).

The Company is party to several agreements that govern certain aspects of the Company’s relationship with 21CF and Disney following the Transaction, including a separation and distribution agreement, a tax matters agreement, transition services agreements, as well as agreements relating to intellectual property licenses, employee matters, commercial arrangements and a studio lot lease. See Note 1, “Description of Business and Basis of Presentation,” to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in this Annual Report for further information about these agreements.

The Company’s fiscal year ends on June 30 of each year. The Company was incorporated in 2018 under the laws of the State of Delaware. At June 30, 2020, the Company had approximately 9,000 full-time employees. The Company’s principal executive offices are located at 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. The Company’s website is www.foxcorporation.com. The Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available, free of charge, through the Company’s website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.

1

 

Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

This Annual Report contains “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements other than statements of historical or current fact are “forward-looking statements” for purposes of federal and state securities laws. Forward-looking statements may include, among others, the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “likely,” “anticipates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “projects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “outlook” or any other similar words. Although the Company’s management believes that the expectations reflected in any of the Company’s forward-looking statements are reasonable, actual results could differ materially from those projected or assumed in any forward-looking statements. The Company’s future financial condition and results of operations, as well as any forward-looking statements, are subject to change and to inherent risks and uncertainties. Important factors that could cause the Company’s actual results, performance and achievements to differ materially from those estimates or projections contained in the Company’s forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, government regulation, economic, strategic, political and social conditions and the impact of coronavirus disease 2019 (“COVID-19”) and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics and measures to contain their spread. For more detailed information about these factors, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements.”

Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report speak only as of the date hereof. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement made herein or to report any events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or to conform such statements to actual results or changes in our expectations, except as required by law.

Business Overview

FOX produces and delivers compelling news, sports and entertainment content through its primary iconic brands, including FOX News Media, FOX Sports, FOX Entertainment and FOX Television Stations. The Company, with a simple structure focused on two principal reporting segments, differentiates itself in a crowded media and entertainment marketplace through the leadership positions of the Company’s brands and premium programming, with a focus on live and “appointment-based” content that brings communities together, a significant presence in major markets and the broad distribution of the Company’s content across traditional and digital platforms.

Our Competitive Strengths

Premium brands that resonate deeply with viewers.

Under the banner of the FOX name, we produce and distribute content through some of the world’s leading and most valued brands. Our long track record of challenging the status quo emboldens us to continue making innovative decisions, disrupting competitors and forming deeper relationships with audiences. FOX News is among the most influential and recognized news brands in the world. FOX Sports has earned a reputation for bold sports programming and, with its far-reaching presence in virtually every U.S. household, is the premier destination for live sports events and sports commentary. FOX Entertainment is renowned for its engaging primetime entertainment, including the top broadcast entertainment series, The Masked Singer. These brands and others in our portfolio, including our local station affiliates broadcasting under the FOX brand, hold cultural significance with consumers and commercial importance for distributors and advertisers. The quality of our programming and the strength of our brands maximize the value of our content through a combination of affiliate fees and advertising sales.

Leadership positions across strategically significant programming platforms.

FOX enjoys a leadership position across our core news, sports and entertainment businesses. As linear television viewership declines across the industry, “appointment-based” programming that is the FOX hallmark remains resilient. FOX News has been the #1 national cable news network for over 18 years and is the top-rated national cable news network in primetime and total viewing across key demographics as of June 2020. A leader in marquee live sports broadcasts, FOX Sports programs Thursday night and Sunday National Football League (“NFL”) football, the Major League Baseball (“MLB”) All-Star Game and World Series and other marquee events, including the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (“FIFA”) World Cup and the Super Bowl. FOX Sports’ broadcast of Super Bowl LIV in February 2020 was watched by approximately 150 million unique multiplatform viewers and generated one of the highest revenue days in television history. FOX Entertainment programming ranked #1 among all broadcast network primetime entertainment programming for the 2019-2020 broadcast season in the key Adults 18-49 demographic, moving from last to first in back-to-back seasons, while delivering the top show The Masked Singer, as well as the four highest

2

 

rated new entertainment series LEGO Masters, 911: Lone Star, Prodigal Son and The Masked Singer: After The Mask. The FOX Television Stations ended fiscal 2020 covering 18 Nielsen-designated market areas (“DMAs”), including 14 of the 15 largest. Taken together, we believe our leadership positions will continue to support strong affiliate fee revenue growth and sustained advertising revenue, while enabling us to nimbly respond to the challenges relating to rapidly evolving technologies and changes in consumer behavior that traditional media companies are facing.

Significant presence and relevance in major domestic markets.

The FOX portfolio combines the range of national cable and broadcast networks with the power of tailored local television. FOX News and FOX Business are available in approximately 80 million U.S. households and the FOX Network is available in essentially all U.S. households. Additionally, our 29 owned and operated television stations cover 18 DMAs, including 14 of the 15 largest, and maintain duopolies in 11 DMAs, including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago, the three largest. These stations provide balanced content of national interest with programming of note to local communities, producing over 1,000 hours of local news coverage each week. The breadth and depth of our footprint allows us to produce and distribute our content in a cost-effective manner and share best business practices and models across regions. It also enables us to engage audiences, develop deeper consumer relationships and create more compelling product offerings.

Attractive financial profile, including multiple revenue streams, strong balance sheet and tax asset benefit.

We have achieved strong revenue growth and profitability in a complex industry environment over the past several years, led by affiliate fee increases. Additionally, our strong balance sheet provides us with the financial flexibility to continue to invest across our businesses, allocate resources toward investments in growth initiatives, take advantage of strategic opportunities, including potential acquisitions across the range of media categories in which we operate, and return capital to our stockholders. We also benefit from a tax asset that resulted from the step-up in the tax basis of our assets following the Transaction, which will provide an annual cash tax benefit for many years.

Goals and Strategies

Maintain leading positions in live news, live sports and quality entertainment.

We have long been a leader in news, sports and entertainment programming. We believe that building on our leading market positions is essential to our success. We are investing in our most attractive growth opportunities by allocating capital to our news, sports and original entertainment programming, which we believe have distinct competitive advantages. For example, we have continued our investments in digital properties at FOX News Media, including additional investments in the FOX Nation subscription video-on-demand (“SVOD”) service and the rebranding of the FOX Business suite of digital products. FOX Sports has extended the FOX Sports brand through a partnership with The Stars Group (subsequently acquired by Flutter Entertainment plc (“Flutter”)) that launched the free-to-play game FOX Bet Super 6 and the FOX Bet wagering app in fiscal 2020. FOX Entertainment is investing in more co-production arrangements and owns a stake in nearly all new series that aired on the FOX Network during the 2019-2020 broadcast season. We believe continuing to provide compelling news, sports and entertainment programming across platforms will increase audience engagement and drive growth across our distribution, affiliate and advertising relationships.

Increase revenue growth through the continued delivery of high quality, premium and valuable content.

With a focused portfolio of assets, we create and produce high quality programming that delivers value for our viewers and our affiliate and advertising partners. We intend to continue to receive appropriate value for our content, particularly through affiliate fees. Additionally, we expect our enhanced ability to acquire independent programming through co-production arrangements will facilitate growth by enabling us to directly manage the economics and programming decisions of our broadcast network and stations group. We also believe our unique ability to deliver “appointment-based” viewing and audiences at scale, along with innovative advertising platforms, delivers substantial value to our advertising customers, and the unique nature of our “appointment-based” content positions us to maintain and even grow audiences during a time of increasing consumer fragmentation.

Expand our online distribution offerings and direct engagement with consumers, increasing complementary sources of revenues.

Our key networks are offered on all major digital MVPD services, reflecting the strength of our brands and the “must-have” nature of our content. We are also cultivating direct interactions between FOX brands and consumers outside

3

 

traditional linear television. For example, in fiscal 2020, we acquired Tubi, which owns and operates a leading AVOD service, while divesting our passive stake in Roku, Inc. Tubi provides us with a 100% owned digital platform to access a wider digital audience and to further the reach of our content. We also acquired 67% of the equity in Credible, a U.S. consumer finance marketplace that is playing a featured role in the rebranded FOX Business suite of digital products and other integrations across the FOX portfolio of brands. In addition, FOX Sports has partnered with The Stars Group (subsequently acquired by Flutter), which launched the FOX Bet app in fiscal 2020, and we own an equity stake in Flutter and maintain valuable options to acquire up to 50% of The Stars Group’s U.S. business and approximately 18.5% of FanDuel Group, a majority-owned subsidiary of Flutter. FOX Television Stations also upgraded its suite of digital properties and launched its first AVOD service, FOX Soul, which features programming focused on the African American community. We intend to identify similarly innovative new products, services and investments across our business to increase revenues and profitability in the future.

Recent Developments

The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in widespread and continuing negative impacts on the macroeconomic environment and disruption to the Company’s business. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, sports events to which the Company has broadcast rights have been cancelled or postponed and the production of certain entertainment content the Company distributes has been suspended. Although some of these sports events and productions have resumed or are expected to resume during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, there may be additional content disruptions in the future. As a result, the number of live sports events and related sports programming airing on the Company’s broadcast and cable networks and made available to the FOX Network’s affiliates in fiscal 2021 is uncertain and the nature of the entertainment programming the Company airs and delivers in fiscal 2021 may be affected as well. Measures aimed at preventing the spread of the virus, such as shelter in place orders, business shutdowns, quarantines and travel bans and restrictions, have affected and may further affect the Company’s workforce and operations, as well as those of its business partners. For example, the Company transferred centralized production functions to multiple remote sites. In addition to causing business disruptions, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused some of the Company’s advertisers (including, in particular, local market advertisers) to reduce their spending, and future declines in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could negatively impact their advertising expenditures further. The magnitude of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company is highly uncertain and subject to change and will depend on evolving factors beyond the Company’s control. For more information, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors – The COVID-19 pandemic and other widespread health emergencies or pandemics could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview of the Company’s Business – Other Business Developments.”

Segments

Cable Network Programming

The Cable Network Programming segment produces and licenses news, business news and sports content for distribution primarily through MVPDs primarily in the U.S. The businesses in this segment include FOX News Media (which is comprised of FOX News and FOX Business) and our primary cable sports programming networks FS1, FS2 and Big Ten Network.

The following table lists the Company’s significant cable networks and the number of subscribers as estimated by Nielsen Media Research (“Nielsen”):

 

 

As of June 30,

 

 

2020

 

2019

 

 

(in millions)

FOX News Media Networks

 

 

FOX News

83

84

FOX Business

80

82

FOX Sports Networks

 

 

FS1

80

81

FS2

59

58

Big Ten Network

57

57

FOX Deportes

20

21

4

 

 

FOX News Media. FOX News Media includes the FOX News and FOX Business networks and their related properties. As of June 2020, FOX News is the top-rated national cable news channel in both Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing and has held its #1 status for over 18 years, according to Nielsen. FOX News also finished fiscal 2020 as the #1 network among all cable networks in Monday to Friday primetime and total day viewing among total viewers for the fifth year in a row and as the #1 network of all cable networks from Monday to Friday in total day viewing among Adults 25-54, according to Nielsen. FOX Business is a business news national cable channel. Fiscal 2020 was FOX Business’ highest rated year ever among total viewers in business day and its Lou Dobbs Tonight program was the #1 program on any business network among total viewers. FOX News also produces a weekend political commentary show, FOX News Sunday, for broadcast on the FOX Television Stations and stations affiliated with the FOX Network throughout the U.S. FOX News, through its FOX News Edge service, licenses news feeds to affiliates to the FOX Network and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts primarily throughout the U.S. FOX News also produces FOX News Audio, which licenses news updates, podcasts, and long-form programs to local radio stations and to mobile, Internet and satellite radio providers.

FS1. FS1 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including National Association of Stock Car Auto Racing (“NASCAR”), college football, college basketball, the Bundesliga, the FIFA World Cup, Major League Soccer (“MLS”), National Hot Rod Association (“NHRA”), Premier Boxing Champions (“PBC”) and Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile Formula E Championship (“Formula E”), as well as regular season and post-season MLB games. In addition to live events, FS1 also features original programming from FOX Sports Films and opinion shows such as Skip and Shannon: Undisputed, The Herd with Colin Cowherd, First Things First, FOX Bet Live and Speak for Yourself.

FS2. FS2 is a multi-sport national network that features live events, including NASCAR, collegiate sports, horse racing, rugby, surfing, world-class soccer and motor sports.

FOX Sports Racing. FOX Sports Racing is a 24-hour video programming service consisting of motor sports programming, including NASCAR events and original programming, NHRA and Formula E. FOX Sports Racing is distributed to subscribers in Canada and the Caribbean.

FOX Soccer Plus. FOX Soccer Plus is a premium video programming network that showcases exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions, including events from the Bundesliga, FIFA, Super Rugby League, Australian Football League and the National Rugby League.

FOX Deportes. FOX Deportes is a Spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the U.S. FOX Deportes features exclusive Spanish-language coverage of premier soccer (such as Liga MX and Copa MX, Tijuana Xolos, Rayados de Monterrey and Santos Laguna home matches, MLS, FIFA Club World Cup and the Bundesliga), NASCAR Cup Series, PBC, regular and post-season games of the NFL (including the National Football Conference (“NFC”) Championship game and Super Bowl LIV in 2020) and MLB (including regular season games and the National League Championship Series in 2020) and the All-Star and World Series games. In addition to live events, FOX Deportes also features multi-sport news and highlight shows and daily studio programming. FOX Deportes is available to approximately 20 million cable and satellite households in the U.S., of which over five million are Hispanic.

Big Ten Network. The Big Ten Network is a 24-hour national video programming service dedicated to the collegiate Big Ten Conference and Big Ten athletics, academics and related programming. The Big Ten Network televises live collegiate events, including football games, regular-season and post-season men’s and women’s basketball games, and men’s and women’s Olympic events (including soccer, gymnastics, ice hockey and baseball), as well as a variety of studio shows. The Big Ten Network also owns and operates BTN+, a subscription video streaming service that features live streams of non-televised sporting events, replays of televised and streamed events, and a large collection of classic games and original programming. The Company owns an approximate 51% interest in the Big Ten Network.

Digital Distribution. The Company also distributes programming through its FOX-branded and network-branded websites, apps and social media accounts and licenses programming for distribution through MVPDs’ websites and apps. The Company’s websites and apps provide live and/or on-demand streaming of network-related programming primarily on an authenticated basis to allow video subscribers of the Company’s participating distribution partners to view Company content via the Internet. These websites and apps include the websites FOXNews.com, FOXBusiness.com, FOXSports.com and FOXDeportes.com and the FOX News, FOX Business, FOX Sports and FOX Deportes mobile apps, as well as the website btnplus.com and the BTN+ app. In addition, in fiscal 2019, FOX News launched the FOX Nation SVOD service that delivers premium content complementary to FOX News directly to consumers.

5

 

FOX Sports College Properties. FOX Sports College Properties, a division of Home Team Sports (“HTS”), holds the exclusive multi-media and sponsorship representation rights for the University of Southern California and the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, Michigan State University, University of Florida, Auburn, San Diego State, Georgetown, Villanova and the BIG EAST Conference. HTS is a multi-media sales unit that connects advertisers with every MLB, NHL and National Basketball Association (“NBA”) home team in the U.S.

Cable Network Programming Competition

General. Cable network programming is a highly competitive business. Cable networks compete for content and distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with a variety of media, including broadcast television networks; cable television systems and networks; Internet-delivered platforms such as SVOD and AVOD services and mobile, gaming and social media platforms; audio programming; and print and other media. Important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered, the accessibility of such programming, the ability to adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, quality of user experience and the effectiveness of marketing efforts.

FOX News Media. FOX News’ primary competition comes from the cable networks CNN, HLN and MSNBC. FOX Business’ primary competition comes from the cable networks CNBC and Bloomberg Television. FOX News and FOX Business also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. FOX News and FOX Business also face competition online from CNN.com, NBCNews.com, NYTimes.com, CNBC.com, Bloomberg.com and The Wall Street Journal Online, among others.

FOX Sports. A number of basic and pay television programming services, such as ESPN and NBC Sports Network, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets FS1, FS2 and the Big Ten Network’s respective audiences. On a national level, the primary competitors to FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network are ESPN, ESPN2, NBC Sports Network, CBS Sports Network, TNT, league-owned networks such as NFL Network, NHL Network, NBA TV and MLB Network, and collegiate conference-specific networks such as the SEC Network, Pac-12 Network and ACC Network. In regional markets, the Big Ten Network competes with regional sports networks, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network also face competition online from ESPN+, DAZN, Amazon, Yahoo Sports, Facebook, Twitter, ESPN.com, NBCSports.com, Bleacherreport.com and CBSSports.com, among others.

In addition, FS1, FS2, and the Big Ten Network compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. FS1, FS2 and the Big Ten Network compete for national rights principally with a number of national cable and broadcast services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and collegiate conferences. Additionally, MVPDs and online and social media properties such as ESPN+, DAZN, Amazon, Yahoo Sports, Facebook and Twitter compete with the Company’s cable sports networks by acquiring and distributing sports content to their online users.

Television

The Company is principally engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the acquisition, marketing and distribution of broadcast network programming nationally under the FOX brand. The Company also owns Tubi, which owns and operates an AVOD service.

FOX Television Stations

FOX Television Stations owns and operates 29 full power broadcast television stations, which deliver broadcast network content, local news and syndicated programming to viewers in 18 local markets. These include stations located in 14 of the top 15 largest DMAs and two stations (referred to as duopolies) in each of 11 DMAs, including the three largest DMAs (New York, Los Angeles and Chicago). In two of the duopoly markets, FOX Television Stations is channel sharing whereby both of its stations in the market operate using a single 6 MHz channel. Of the 29 full power broadcast television stations, 18 stations are affiliated with the FOX Network. These stations leverage viewer, distributor and advertiser demand for the FOX Network’s national content. In addition, the FOX Network’s strategy to deliver fewer hours of national content than other major broadcasters benefits stations affiliated with the FOX Network, which can utilize the flexibility in scheduling to offer expanded local news and other programming that viewers covet. Our 29 stations collectively produce over 1,000 hours of local news every week. For a description of the programming offered to affiliates to the FOX Network,

6

 

see “—The FOX Network.” In addition, FOX Television Stations owns and operates 10 stations broadcasting programming from MyNetworkTV. In January 2020, Fox Television Stations launched FOX Soul, an AVOD service dedicated to the African American viewer that features original and syndicated programming.

The following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by FOX Television Stations. Unless otherwise noted, all stations are affiliates of the FOX Network.

FOX Television Stations

 

 

DMA/Rank

 

    

      Station      

 

Digital
Channel RF
(Virtual)

 

    Type    

 

Percentage of U.S.
Television
Households
in the DMA (a)

 

New York, NY

1

 

WNYW

27(5)

UHF

6.4%

 

 

 

WWOR-TV(b)(c)

25(9)

UHF

 

Los Angeles, CA

2

 

KTTV

11(11)

VHF

4.8%

 

 

 

KCOP-TV(b)

13(13)

VHF

 

Chicago, IL

3

 

WFLD

24(32)

UHF

3.0%

 

 

 

WPWR-TV(b)(d)

31(50)

UHF

 

Philadelphia, PA

4

 

WTXF-TV

31(29)

UHF

2.6%

Dallas, TX

5

 

KDFW

35(4)

UHF

2.4%

 

 

 

KDFI(b)

27(27)

UHF

 

San Francisco, CA

6

 

KTVU

31(2)

UHF

2.2%

 

 

 

KICU-TV(e)

36(36)

UHF

 

Washington, DC

7

 

WTTG

36(5)

UHF

2.2%

 

 

 

WDCA(b)(f)

36(20)

UHF

 

Houston, TX

8

 

KRIV

26(26)

UHF

2.2%

 

 

 

KTXH(b)

19(20)

UHF

 

Atlanta, GA

10

 

WAGA-TV

27(5)

UHF

2.1%

Phoenix, AZ

11

 

KSAZ-TV

10(10)

VHF

1.8%

 

 

 

KUTP(b)

26(45)

UHF

 

Tampa, FL

12

 

WTVT

12(13)

VHF

1.7%

Seattle-Tacoma, WA

13

 

KCPQ

13(13)

UHF

1.6%

 

 

 

KZJO(b)

36(22)

UHF

 

Detroit, MI

14

 

WJBK

7(2)

VHF

1.6%

Minneapolis, MN(g)

15

 

KMSP-TV

9(9)

VHF

1.6%

 

 

 

WFTC(b)

29(29)

UHF

 

Orlando, FL

18

 

WOFL

22(35)

UHF

1.4%

 

 

 

WRBW(b)

28(65)

UHF

 

Milwaukee, WI

35

 

WITI(h)

31(6)

UHF

0.8%

Austin, TX

40

 

KTBC

7(7)

VHF

0.7%

Gainesville, FL

156

 

WOGX

31(51)

UHF

0.1%

TOTAL

 

 

 

 

 

39.2%

 

Source: Nielsen, January 2020

(a)

VHF television stations transmit on Channels 2 through 13 and UHF television stations on Channels 14 through 36. The Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”) applies a discount (the “UHF Discount”) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a UHF television station for purposes of calculating whether that station’s owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by FCC regulations and by statute; in making this calculation, only the station’s RF broadcast channel is considered. In a duopoly market, both stations must be UHF for the discount to apply. In addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. The percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the UHF Discount. For more information regarding the FCC’s national station ownership cap, see “Government Regulation.”

(b)

MyNetworkTV licensee station.

7

 

(c)

WWOR-TV hosts television station WRNN, New Rochelle, NY, licensed to WRNN License Company, LLC, an unrelated third party pursuant to a channel sharing agreement between FOX Television Stations and WRNN License Company, LLC. A portion of the spectrum formerly licensed to WWOR-TV is now shared with and licensed to WRNN.

(d)

WPWR-TV channel shares with WFLD.

(e)

Independent station.

(f)

WDCA channel shares with WTTG.

(g)

The Company also owns and operates full power station KFTC, Channel 26, Bemidji, MN as a satellite station of WFTC, Channel 29, Minneapolis, MN. Station KFTC is in addition to the 29 full power stations described in this section.

(h)

WITI hosts television station WVCY, Milwaukee, WI, licensed to VCY America, Inc., an unrelated third party pursuant to a channel sharing agreement between WITI Television, LLC, the predecessor in interest of FOX Television Stations, and VCY America, Inc. A portion of the spectrum formerly licensed to WITI is now shared with and licensed to WVCY.

The FOX Network

The FOX Network is a premier national television broadcast network, renowned for disrupting legacy broadcasters with powerful sports programming and appealing primetime entertainment. The FOX Network regularly delivers approximately 15 hours of weekly primetime programming, 60 minutes of late-night programming on Saturday and 60 minutes of news programming on Sunday to 208 local market affiliates, including 18 stations owned and operated by the Company, covering approximately 99.9% of all U.S. television households, according to Nielsen. The FOX Network primetime lineup is intended to appeal primarily to the 18 to 49 year old audience, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often, with particular success in the 18 to 34 year old audience. The FOX Network has ranked among the top two networks in the 18 to 34 year old audience for the past 25 broadcast seasons and in the 12 to 17 year old audience for the past 29 broadcast seasons. During the 2019-2020 broadcast season, the FOX Network ranked first in the 18 to 49 year old audience and across key advertiser demographic groups, including the 18 to 34 year old audience and the 12 to 17 year old audience (based on Live+7 ratings). The FOX Network led the 2019-2020 broadcast season by a significant margin, with a 31% lead over #2 NBC Television Network (“NBC”) in the 18 to 49 year old audience. The median age of the FOX Network viewer is 53 years, as compared to 58 years for each of ABC Television Network (“ABC”) and NBC and 63 years for CBS Television Network (“CBS”).

 

•

FOX Entertainment. FOX Entertainment delivers high-quality scripted, non-scripted and live content. FOX Network entertainment programming ranked #1 among all broadcast network primetime entertainment programming for the 2019-2020 broadcast season for the first time in eight years in the 18 to 49 year old audience (based on commercial+7 ratings). During the 2019-2020 broadcast season, FOX Entertainment primetime programming featured such series as 9-1-1, 9-1-1: Lone Star, Bob’s Burgers, Empire, Family Guy, The Resident, The Simpsons and Prodigal Son; unscripted series such as The Masked Singer, LEGO Masters and 24 Hours to Hell and Back; and live event specials such as FOX’s New Year’s Eve With Steve Harvey: Live From Times Square. The FOX Network’s The Masked Singer was the 2019-2020 broadcast season’s top entertainment series in the 18 to 49 and 12 to 17 year old audiences, while also ranking as the #1 unscripted series with the same audiences. FOX featured all of the broadcast season’s top four new entertainment series in the 18 to 49 audience; LEGO Masters (the #1 new entertainment reality program), 9-1-1: Lone Star (#1 new scripted show), Prodigal Son and The Masked Singer: After The Mask. The FOX Network’s Last Man Standing, Family Guy and The Simpsons placed among the 2019-2020 broadcast season’s top 10 comedies in the 18 to 49 year old audiences.

 

•

FOX Sports. A significant component of FOX Network programming consists of sports programming, with the FOX Network providing to its affiliates during the 2019-2020 broadcast season live coverage of Thursday Night Football and the NFC of the NFL (including coverage of the NFC playoffs and Super Bowl LIV) and MLB (including the post-season and the World Series), as well as live coverage of the NASCAR Cup Series (including the Daytona 500), MLS, FIFA World Cup, Formula E, PBC and college football and basketball. In October 2019, the Company premiered WWE Friday Night SmackDown.

8

 

The FOX Network obtains entertainment programming from major television studios, including Twentieth Century Fox Television (which, following the Disney Merger, is owned by Disney), and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. The terms of those agreements generally provide the FOX Network with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. National sports programming is obtained through license agreements with professional or collegiate sports leagues or organizations, including long-term agreements with the NFL, MLB, college football and basketball conferences, NASCAR, FIFA and WWE.

The FOX Network provides programming to affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. Such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. These affiliation agreements require affiliates to the FOX Network to carry the FOX Network programming in all time periods in which the FOX Network programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements.

The FOX Network also distributes programming through its network-branded website, FOX.com, and its FOX NOW and FOX Sports apps, which offer live streaming of the FOX Network shows and programming from many broadcast stations affiliated with the FOX Network, and licenses programming for distribution through MVPDs’ websites and apps.

MyNetworkTV

The programming distribution service, Master Distribution Service, Inc. (branded as MyNetworkTV), distributes two hours per night, Monday through Friday, of off-network programming from syndicators to its over 180 licensee stations, including 10 stations owned and operated by the Company, and is available to approximately 98% of U.S. households as of June 30, 2020.

Fox Alternative Entertainment

In fiscal 2019, the Company launched Fox Alternative Entertainment, LLC, a full-service production studio that develops and produces unscripted and alternative programming primarily for the FOX Network, including The Masked Singer and The Masked Singer: After The Mask.

Bento Box

In August 2019, the Company acquired Bento Box Entertainment, LLC (“Bento Box”), an animation development and production company. Bento Box develops and produces animated programing, including programming that airs on the FOX Network such as Bob’s Burgers and Duncanville.

Tubi

In April 2020, the Company acquired Tubi, which owns and operates an AVOD service. The Tubi service is available on 25 digital platforms and features licensed film and episodic television programming from over 250 content partners in addition to FOX content, such as The Masked Singer.

Competition

The network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. The FOX Network, MyNetworkTV and Tubi compete for audiences, programming and advertising revenue with a variety of competing media, including other broadcast television networks, cable television systems and networks; other Internet-delivered platforms such as SVOD and AVOD services and mobile, gaming and social media platforms; audio programming; and print and other media. In addition, the FOX Network and MyNetworkTV compete with other broadcast networks and programming distribution services to secure affiliations or station agreements with independently owned television stations in markets across the U.S. ABC, NBC and CBS each broadcast a significantly greater number of hours of programming than the FOX Network and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than the FOX Network. Technological developments are also continuing to affect competition within the broadcast television marketplace.

9

 

Each of the stations owned and operated by FOX Television Stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations, radio and cable systems in its respective market area, along with other advertising media, including Internet-delivered platforms such as SVOD and AVOD services and mobile, gaming and social media platforms, newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising and direct mail. All of the stations owned and operated by FOX Television Stations are located in highly competitive markets. Additional items that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. Competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite television, services and digital media and general economic conditions. Competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public, which is often difficult to predict.

Other, Corporate and Eliminations

The Other, Corporate and Eliminations segment consists primarily of the FOX Studio Lot, Credible, corporate overhead costs and intracompany eliminations.

FOX Studio Lot

FOX owns the FOX Studio Lot in Los Angeles, California. The historic lot is located on over 50 acres of land and has over 1.85 million square feet of space for both administration and production/post-production services available to service a wide array of industry clients, including 15 sound stages, two broadcast studios, theaters and screening rooms, editing rooms and other production facilities. The FOX Studio Lot provides two primary revenue streams — the lease of a portion of the office space to 21CF and the operation of studio facilities for third party productions, which until 2026 will predominantly be Disney productions.

Credible

During fiscal 2020, the Company acquired 67% of the equity in Credible, which operates a U.S. consumer finance marketplace. Credible’s offering enables consumers to compare instant, personalized pre-qualified rates for student loans, personal loans and mortgages from multiple financial institutions.

Investments

Flutter

During fiscal 2019, the Company acquired a 4.99% equity interest in The Stars Group Inc. (“The Stars Group”) and the Company and The Stars Group launched FOX Bet, a national media and sports wagering partnership in the U.S. during fiscal 2020. FOX Sports provides The Stars Group with an exclusive license to use certain FOX Sports trademarks under a long-term commercial arrangement. Subject to certain conditions and applicable gaming regulatory approvals, FOX Sports has an option until August 2029 to acquire up to 50% of the equity in The Stars Group’s U.S. business. In May 2020, The Stars Group combined with Flutter to create a global leader in sports betting and gaming. As part of that transaction, FOX Sports received an option until 2031 to acquire an approximately 18.5% equity interest in FanDuel Group, a majority-owned subsidiary of Flutter. In May 2020, the Company participated in an equity offering by Flutter, investing approximately $100 million. As of June 30, 2020, the Company owns approximately four million ordinary shares of Flutter, representing approximately 3% of Flutter.

Government Regulation

The Communications Act and FCC Regulation

The television broadcast industry in the U.S. is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various agencies, including the FCC. The FCC regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (the “Communications Act”). The introduction of new laws and regulations or changes in the enforcement or interpretation of existing laws and regulations could have a negative impact on the operations, prospects and financial performance of the Company.

10

 

Broadcast Licenses. The Communications Act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the FCC upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. The Company owns broadcast licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of television stations. Under the Communications Act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum term of eight years. Generally, the FCC renews broadcast licenses upon finding that the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations; and there have been no other violations by the licensee of the Communications Act or FCC rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. As of June 30, 2020, FOX Television Stations has two pending renewal applications for its television broadcast licenses and is filing license renewal applications for its other stations in calendar years 2020-2023.

Ownership Regulations. Under the FCC’s national television ownership rule, one party may own television stations with a collective national audience reach of not more than 39% of all U.S. television households, subject to the UHF discount. Under the UHF discount, a UHF television station is attributed with reaching only 50% of the television households in its market for purposes of calculating national audience reach. In December 2017, the FCC issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking pursuant to which it will consider modifying, retaining or eliminating the 39% national television audience reach limitation (including the UHF discount). If the FCC determines in the future to eliminate the UHF discount and the national television audience reach limitation is not eliminated or modified, the Company’s ability to acquire television stations in additional markets may be negatively affected.

Under the FCC’s local television ownership rule, one party may own up to two television stations in the same DMA and presumptively only one station ranked among the top-four stations based on audience share as of the application date. In November 2017, the FCC issued a reconsideration order that relaxed the local television ownership rule so that, among other things, station owners could petition the FCC to permit ownership of two stations among the top four in a market. As discussed below, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (the “Third Circuit”) vacated the FCC’s order and that decision is on appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court.

In the 2017 FCC reconsideration order, the FCC also eliminated the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which prohibited common ownership of broadcast stations and daily newspapers in the same market. The Company owns two television stations in the New York DMA and an attributable interest in The New York Post due to the Murdoch Family Trust’s ownership interests in News Corporation (“News Corp”). The stations operated under waivers of the cross ownership rule prior to its elimination. In the Fall of 2019, the Third Circuit vacated the 2017 reconsideration order, reinstating the cross-ownership rule, and the FCC implemented the reinstatement in December 2019. The FCC filed a petition for review with the U.S. Supreme Court in April 2020, and the Company also filed a petition for review with other intervenors. If the U.S. Supreme Court affirms the Third Circuit’s decision reinstating the cross-ownership rule, the Company’s operations or future conduct, including the acquisition of any broadcast networks, or stations or any newspapers, in the same local markets in which News Corp owns or operates newspapers or has acquired television stations, may affect News Corp’s ability to own and operate its business in compliance with the rule. The 2013 separation agreement between News Corp and 21CF, the relevant part of which transferred to the Company, provides that if we acquire newspapers, radio or television broadcast stations or television broadcast networks in the U.S., and such acquisition would impede or be reasonably likely to impede News Corp’s business, then we will be required to take certain actions, including divesting assets, in order to permit News Corp to hold its media interests and comply with applicable rules.

The Company is also subject to other communications laws and regulations relating to ownership. For example, FCC dual network rules prohibit any of the four major broadcast television networks — FOX, ABC, CBS, and NBC — from being under common ownership or control. In addition, under the Communications Act, no broadcast station licensees may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of the corporation’s stock is owned or voted by non-U.S. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. This ownership limit can be waived if the FCC finds it to be in the public interest. The FCC could review the Company’s compliance with the foreign ownership regulations in connection with its consideration of FOX Television Stations’ license renewal applications. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the Company’s Board of Directors to take action to prevent, cure or mitigate the effect of stock ownership above the applicable foreign ownership threshold, including: refusing to permit any transfer of common stock to or ownership of common stock by a non-U.S. stockholder; voiding a transfer of common stock to a non-U.S. stockholder; suspending rights of stock ownership if held by a non-U.S. stockholder; or redeeming common stock held by a non-U.S. stockholder.

11

 

Carriage and Content Regulations. FCC regulations require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to require carriage of its signal by traditional MVPDs in the station’s market or to negotiate the terms through which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the traditional MVPDs within its market, which we refer to as the retransmission consent. FOX Television Stations have historically elected retransmission consent for all of their owned and operated stations and the Company has been compensated as a result.

Federal legislation limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming originally designed for children 12 years of age and younger to 10 ½ minutes per hour during the weekend and 12 minutes per hour during the week. In addition, under FCC regulations, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a “significant purpose,” the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. Under FCC rules that were revised in 2019, one of the three hours per week may air on a television’s station’s multicast stream(s); the other two hours must air on the primary programming stream. A television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license.

FCC rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Federal law currently authorizes the FCC to impose fines of up to $407,270 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts. The FCC may impose fines or revoke licenses for serious or multiple violations of the indecency prohibition. Because indecency complaints are confidential, there may be pending nonpublic complaints alleging the broadcast of indecent or profane material by FOX Television Stations (and it is not possible to predict the outcome of any such complaints).

Modifications to the Company’s programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of FOX Television Stations and the FOX Network. If indecency regulation is extended to Internet or cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the Company’s other programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels.

The FCC continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning sponsorship identification, political advertising, children’s television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has increased its focus on unfair and deceptive advertising practices, particularly with respect to social media marketing. Both FCC and FTC rules and guidance require marketers to clearly and conspicuously disclose whenever there has been payment for a marketing message or when there is a material connection between an advertiser and a product endorser.

FCC rules also require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. In addition, Federal law requires affiliates of the four largest broadcast networks in the 60 largest markets to carry a specified minimum amount of hours of primetime or children’s programming per calendar quarter with video descriptions, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate audio channel. The same statute requires programming that was captioned on television to retain captions when distributed via Internet Protocol apps or services.

FCC regulations govern various aspects of the agreements between networks and affiliated broadcast stations, including, among other things, a mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance.

Violation of FCC regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. Violation of FTC-imposed obligations can result in enforcement actions, litigation, consent decrees and, ultimately, substantial monetary fines.

C-Band Reallocation. In order to free up additional spectrum that will likely be used to provide the next generation of commercial wireless broadband services, commonly referred to as 5G services, in March 2020 the FCC adopted a Report and Order that will reallocate through an FCC auction the lower 300 MHz portion of the 500 MHz in the 3.7 to 4.2 GHz (“C-Band”). The C-Band forms the backbone of the infrastructure for how the Company delivers its programming to broadcast affiliates and traditional MVPDs. Currently, there is no viable, scalable and reliable alternative for video delivery. If the FCC does not ensure that the interference protection rules it adopted in February 2020 sufficiently safeguard video delivery while it reallocates and “repacks” the C-Band, it would significantly hinder the Company’s ability to deliver its programming to broadcast affiliates and traditional MVPDs.

12

 

Broadcast Transmission Standard. In November 2017, the FCC adopted rules to permit television broadcasters to voluntarily broadcast using the “Next Generation” broadcast television transmission standard developed by the Advanced Television Systems Committee, Inc., also referred to as “ATSC 3.0.” FOX Television Stations is actively planning to build out ATSC 3.0 facilities. FOX Television Stations is participating in various ATSC 3.0 testing with other broadcasters, but it is too early to predict the impact of this technical standard on the Company’s operations. In June 2020, the FCC adopted a Declaratory Ruling and Notice of Proposed Rulemaking declaring that local and national ownership restrictions do not apply to non-video services. The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking raises a number of questions that could impact the adoption and roll-out of both video and non-video ATSC 3.0 services.

Privacy and Information Regulation

The laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transfer of consumer information are complex and rapidly evolving, particularly as they relate to the Company’s digital businesses. Federal and state laws and regulations affecting the Company’s online services, websites, and other business activities include: the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, which prohibits websites and online services from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent; the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, which regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or “spam”; the Video Privacy Protection Act, which prohibits the knowing disclosure of information that identifies a person as having requested or obtained specific video materials from a “video tape service provider;” the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, which restricts certain marketing communications, such as text messages and calls, without explicit consent; the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which regulates the collection, handling, disclosure, and use of certain personal information by companies that offer consumers financial products or services, imposes notice obligations, and provides certain individual rights regarding the use and disclosure of certain information; and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”), which became effective January 1, 2020, and imposes broad new obligations on the collection, use, and sharing of personal information of California residents. For example, subject to certain exceptions, the CCPA provides new individual rights for Californians, including to access, delete, and to restrict the “sale” of personal information.

Although the Company and the media industry are active in self-regulatory initiatives relating to advertising and online privacy, such initiatives may be replaced or superseded by government action. A number of privacy and data security bills that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, breach notification requirements and cybersecurity are pending or have been adopted at both the state and federal level, including the proposed California Privacy Rights Act ballot initiative, which would impose additional obligations on businesses. In addition, the FTC and state attorneys general have made privacy and data security an enforcement focus.

Foreign jurisdictions also have implemented and continue to introduce new privacy and data security laws and regulations, some of which may apply to the Company’s operations. It is possible that our current data protection policies and practices may be deemed inconsistent with new legal requirements or interpretations thereof, and could result in the violation of these new laws and regulations. The EU General Data Protection Regulation, in particular, regulates the collection, use and security of personal data and restricts the trans-border flow of such data. Canada, Australia and Mexico likewise have enacted data protection legislation.

The Company monitors and considers these privacy and data security laws and regulations, particularly with respect to the design and operation of digital content services and legal and regulatory compliance programs. These laws and regulations and their interpretation are subject to change, and could result in increased compliance costs, claims, financial penalties for noncompliance, changes to business practices, including with respect to tailored advertising, or otherwise impact the Company’s business. For example, violations of applicable privacy and data security laws could result in significant monetary fines and other penalties, require us to expend significant resources to defend, remedy and/or address, and harm our reputation even if we are not ultimately responsible for the violation.

13

 

Consumer Finance Laws and Regulations

Credible, a consumer finance marketplace that FOX acquired during fiscal 2020, markets and provides services in heavily regulated industries across the United States. As a result, Credible is subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations. These include the laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transfer of consumer information described above and the following:

 

•

the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or “RESPA,” and similar state laws, and federal and state unfair and deceptive acts and practices, or “UDAAP,” laws and regulations, all of which place restrictions on the manner in which consumer loans are marketed and originated, and some of which impose restrictions on the amount and nature of fees that may be charged or paid to Credible by lenders and real estate professionals for providing or obtaining consumer loan requests;

 

•

the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which imposes, among other things, requirements related to mortgage disclosures; and

 

•

federal and state licensing laws, such as the Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008, or “SAFE Act,” which establishes minimum standards for the licensing and regulation of mortgage loan originators.

Intellectual Property

The Company’s intellectual property assets include copyrights in television programming and other publications, websites and technologies; trademarks, trade dress, service marks, logos, slogans, sound marks, design rights, symbols, characters, names, titles and trade names, domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services, trade secrets and know how; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. The Company derives value from these assets through the production, distribution and/or licensing of its television programming to domestic and international cable and satellite television services, video-on-demand services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as collectible merchandise, apparel, books and publications, among others.

The Company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property, relying upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. There can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. Policing unauthorized use of the Company’s products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the Company’s intellectual property. The Company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. Piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property.

Third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the Company’s intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. Even if not valid, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations.