Founded in 1959, Generac Holdings Inc. (the Company or Generac) is a leading global designer and manufacturer of a wide range of energy technology solutions. The Company provides power generation equipment, energy storage systems, grid service solutions, and other power products serving the residential, light commercial and industrial markets.
 
Power generation and storage is a key focus of the Company, which differentiates us from our competitors who also have broad operations outside of the power equipment market. As the only significant market participant with a primary focus on these products, we maintain one of the leading market positions in the power equipment market in North America and an expanding presence internationally. We believe we have one of the widest ranges of products in the marketplace, including residential, commercial and industrial standby generators; as well as portable and mobile generators used in a variety of applications. A key strategic focus for the Company in recent years has been leveraging our leading position in the growing market for cleaner burning, more cost-effective natural gas fueled generators to expand into applications beyond standby power, allowing us to participate in distributed generation projects. The Company in recent years has been evolving its business model to also focus on clean energy products, solutions, and services. In 2019, we began providing energy storage systems as a clean energy solution for residential use that capture and store electricity from solar panels or other power sources and help reduce home energy costs while also protecting homes from shorter-duration power outages. During 2020, we entered the market for grid services involving distributed energy optimization and control software that helps support the operational stability of the world's power grids. We have also been focused on connecting the equipment we manufacture to the users of that equipment, helping to drive additional value to our customers and our distribution partners over the product lifecycle. The strategic focus on expanding the connectivity of our products will broaden our monitoring capabilities and also enable the increasing utilization of this equipment as distributed energy resources as the nascent market for grid-services expands over the next several years. Overall, as the traditional centralized utility model evolves over time, we believe that a cleaner, more decentralized grid infrastructure will build-out, and Generac's energy technology solutions are strategically positioned to participate in this future "Grid 2.0".
 
In addition to power generation and storage solutions, other products that we design and manufacture include light towers which provide temporary lighting for various end markets, and a broad and growing product line of outdoor power equipment for residential and commercial use.
 
We design, manufacture, source and modify engines, alternators, transfer switches and other components necessary for our power generation products, which are increasingly being fueled by cleaner sources of energy such as natural gas, liquid propane, and Bi-Fuel™. We also design, source, modify and integrate batteries, inverters, power electronics, controls, energy monitoring and management devices and other components into our energy storage systems. We also design software that allows utilities and power aggregators to optimize and control distributed energy resources. Our products and solutions are available globally through a broad network of independent dealers, distributors, retailers, ecommerce partners, wholesalers and equipment rental companies under a variety of brand names. We also sell direct to certain national and regional account customers, as well as to individual consumers, that are the end users of our products and solutions.
 
We have a significant market share in the residential and light commercial markets for automatic standby generators, which we believe remain under-penetrated in the marketplace. We also have a leading market position for portable generators used in residential, light construction and recreational applications. We believe that our leading market positions are largely attributable to our strategy of providing a broad product line of high-quality, innovative and affordable products through our extensive and multi-layered distribution network to whom we offer comprehensive support programs, and leads from the factory. In addition, we are a leading provider of light towers, mobile generators, outdoor power equipment and industrial generators ranging in sizes up to 3,250kW. As we have entered the rapidly developing market for clean energy in recent years, we have significantly increased our market presence for energy storage systems currently ranging in configurations up to 36kWh of storage capacity. We expect to continue to gain market share in clean energy by further advancing our growing capabilities for these systems including product development, sourcing, distribution, and marketing, as well as leveraging our significant competencies developed over the past two decades to grow the residential standby generator market.
 
Over the past 10 years, we have executed a number of acquisitions that support our strategic plan. A summary of recent acquisitions can be found in Note 1, “Description of Business,” to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Products and Solutions
 
We design and manufacture stationary, portable and mobile generators with single-engine outputs ranging between 800W and 3,250kW. We have the ability to expand the power range for certain stationary generator solutions to much larger multi-megawatt systems through an integrated paralleling configuration called Modular Power Systems (MPS). We have developed a line of turn-key energy storage systems along with a growing selection of energy monitoring and management solutions as we further expand into the clean energy markets. We also recently entered the market for grid services involving distributed energy optimization and control software. Other power products and solutions that we provide include light towers, as well as a broad line of outdoor power equipment that we refer to as chore products which includes field and brush mowers, pressure washers, water pumps, and battery-powered zero-turn mowers. We classify our products into three categories based on similar range of power output geared for varying end customer uses: Residential products, Commercial & Industrial (C&I) products and Other products & services. The following summary outlines our portfolio of products, including their key attributes and customer applications.
 
Residential Products
 
Our residential automatic standby generators range in output from 7.5kW to 150kW, operate on natural gas, liquid propane or diesel, and are permanently installed with an automatic transfer switch, which we also manufacture. Air-cooled engine residential standby generators range in outputs from 7.5kW to 24kW and serve as an emergency backup for small to medium-sized homes. Liquid-cooled engine generators serve as emergency backup for larger homes and small businesses and range in output from 22kW to 150kW. We also provide a remote monitoring system with various options for home standby generators called Mobile Link™. This remote monitoring capability is a standard, WiFi-enabled feature on every home standby generator that we offer, and allows our customers to check the status of their generator conveniently online, and also provides the capability to similarly receive maintenance and service alerts. This capability will also give our customers the ability to connect and enroll their generator as a distributed energy resource used in future grid services applications. Our remote monitoring platform also allows our distribution partners to monitor their installed base of customers through a feature that we call “Fleet”, enabling them to offer a more proactive experience to service a customer’s generator.
 
2

Table of Contents
 
During 2020, we introduced the industry's largest air-cooled generator - a 24kW machine that adds to our broad product offering and increases our competitive advantage in the marketplace. The new generator is the first to be bundled with the Company's new PWRview™ Automatic Transfer Switch, equipped with the PWRview™ Home Energy Management System (HEMS). PWRview™ gives the homeowner insights into their daily home energy consumption, enabling power-saving decisions that can reduce electricity bills and help to offset the purchase cost of the generator over the product's lifespan. 
 
We provide a broad product line of portable and inverter generators that range in size from 800W to 17.5kW. These products serve as an emergency home backup source of electricity and are also used for construction and recreational purposes. Our portable generators are targeted at homeowners, with price points ranging between the consumer value end of the market through the premium homeowner market; at professional contractors, starting at the value end through the premium contractor segment; and at the recreational market with our inverter generator products, which are quieter than traditional portable generators. In addition, we offer manual transfer switches to supplement our portable generator product offering.
 
During 2019 we entered the energy storage and monitoring markets through the acquisitions of Neurio Technology Inc. and Pika Energy, Inc. Following these acquisitions and leveraging their technologies, we introduced a line of clean energy products marketed under the Generac brand and using the names PWRcell™ and PWRview™.  This clean energy solution consists of a system of batteries, an inverter, PV optimizers, power electronic controls, energy monitoring and management hardware & software, and other components. These systems capture and store electricity from solar panels or other power sources and help reduce home energy costs while also protecting homes from shorter duration power outages, and range in size from 9kWh up to 36kWh of storage capacity.  We introduced several new products during 2020 and we continue to develop an innovative pipeline of additional clean energy products and solutions that we expect will be coming to market over the next year.  These new products further enhance our competitive position and differentiation in the energy storage, monitoring and management markets, and focus on whole-house storage solutions with load management capabilities that eventually could contribute to energy independence.
 
We provide a broad product line of outdoor power equipment referred to as chore products, which are used for the property maintenance needs of larger-acreage residences, commercial properties, municipalities and farms. These products include trimmers, field and brush mowers, log splitters, stump grinders, chipper shredders, lawn and leaf vacuums, pressure washers and water pumps. During 2020, we further expanded our broad lineup of chore products by entering the commercial battery-powered turf care market through the acquisition of Mean Green Products, LLC. This acquisition also supports our goals to integrate and develop new battery-powered solutions by accelerating the electrification of our higher-powered lineup of chore products. Chore products are largely sold in North America through online catalogs, retail hardware stores and outdoor power equipment dealers primarily under the DR® brand name.
 
Residential products comprised 62.6%, 51.9% and 51.5%, respectively, of total net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018.
 
Commercial & Industrial Products
 
We offer a full line of C&I generators that are increasingly being fueled by cleaner sources of energy such as natural gas, liquid propane, and Bi-Fuel™, as well as other more traditional fuels such as diesel. We believe we have one of the broadest product offerings in the industry with power outputs ranging from 10kW up to 3,250kW.
 
Our light-commercial standby generators include a full range of affordable systems from 22kW to 150kW and related transfer switches, providing three-phase power sufficient for most small and mid-sized businesses such as grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants, gas stations, pharmacies, retail banks, small health care facilities and other small-footprint retail applications. Our light-commercial generators run on a variety of fuels including natural gas, liquid propane and diesel fuel.
 
We design and manufacture a broad product line of modelized and configured stationary generators and related transfer switches for various industrial standby, continuous-duty and prime rated applications. Our single-engine industrial generators range in output from 10kW up to 3,250kW, include stationary and containerized packages, and include our MPS technology that extends our product range up to much larger multi-megawatt systems through an integrated paralleling configuration. Over the past several years, we have introduced larger and higher-powered gaseous-fueled generators, with the highest output of 750kW for a single-engine set currently to date, with future plans to expand these cleaner-fuel generators into larger applications of 1,000kW and beyond. We offer a variety of fuel options for our industrial generators, including natural gas, liquid propane or Bi-Fuel™. Bi-Fuel™ generators provide our customers the flexibility to operate these generators on multiple fuel sources and extended run times. Our industrial standby generators are primarily used as emergency backup for larger applications in the healthcare, telecom, datacom, commercial office, retail, municipal and manufacturing markets. In recent years, we've had a strategic effort aimed at utilizing our gaseous-fueled generators in "beyond standby" applications including distributed generation and micro-grid projects.
 
Our MPS technology combines the power of several smaller generators to produce the output of a larger generator, providing our customers with redundancy and scalability in a cost-effective manner. For larger industrial applications, our MPS products offer customers an efficient, affordable way to scale their standby power needs, while offering superior reliability given their built-in redundancy which allows individual units to be taken off-line for routine maintenance while retaining coverage for critical circuits.
 
We also offer a full line of industrial transfer switches to meet varying needs from light industrial applications all the way to the most demanding critical installations. Generac’s industry-leading feature set and flexible platforms offer a variety of switching technologies for customized solutions to meet any project needs. During 2020, we introduced the first of our new TX Series transfer switches, which are an ideal solution for an array of applications with its extensive capabilities and ease of installation. This new generation of transfer switches should help us increase our spec rate, which should ultimately help us win more projects. 
 
We provide a broad product line of light towers and mobile generators, which provide temporary lighting and power for various end markets, such as road and commercial construction, energy, mining, military and special events. We manufacture commercial mobile pumps and dust-suppression equipment for a wide variety of applications. We also manufacture various gaseous-engine control systems and accessories, which are sold to gas-engine manufacturers and aftermarket customers.
 
C&I products comprised 28.3%, 39.5% and 40.6% respectively, of total net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018.
 
3

Table of Contents
 
Other Products and Services
 
Our “Other Products and Services” category primarily consists of aftermarket service parts and product accessories sold to our customers, the amortization of extended warranty deferred revenue, and the service offerings in various parts of our business, including integration, project management, remote monitoring services, and energy monitoring services.
 
Also included in this “Other” category are revenues from Enbala Power Networks Inc., which was acquired during the fourth quarter of 2020.  Enbala accelerates our entrance into the market for grid services involving distributed energy optimization and control software used by utilities and energy retailers that enable the connection of distributed energy resources (known as DERs) to help support the operational stability of the world’s power grids.  These DER assets, which can include residential and C&I natural gas generators, PWRcell™ energy storage systems, and load management devices, can be connected to Enbala’s software platform and aggregated into a decentralized and virtual power network to provide flexible capacity to address peaks in electricity demand, variability in supply due to increasing use of renewables, and where resiliency is needed as a result of power outages. 
 
Other products and services comprised 9.1%, 8.6% and 7.9%, respectively, of total net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018.
 
Distribution Channels and Customers
 
We distribute our products through a variety of different distribution channels to increase awareness of our product categories and brands, and to ensure our products reach a broad, global customer base. This omni-channel distribution network includes independent residential dealers, industrial distributors and dealers, national and regional retailers, e-commerce partners, electrical/HVAC/solar wholesalers (including certain private label arrangements), catalogs, equipment rental companies, equipment distributors, and solar installers. We also sell direct to certain national and regional account customers, which include utilities and energy retailers, as well as to individual consumers, who are the end users of our products.
 
We believe our global distribution network is a competitive advantage that has strengthened over the years as a result of adding, expanding and developing the various distribution channels through which we sell our products. We offer a broad set of tools, programs, factory support, and sales leads to help our distribution partners be successful. Our network is well balanced with no single customer providing more than 6% of our sales in 2020.
 
At over 7,000 strong, we have the industry's largest network of factory direct independent generator dealers in North America.
 
Our residential/light commercial dealer network sells, installs and services our residential and light commercial products to end users. We have increased our level of investment in recent years by focusing on a variety of initiatives to more effectively market and sell our home standby products and better align our dealer network with Generac. These initiatives have helped to improve lead quality and develop our dealers, thereby increasing close rates and lowering our cost per lead.
 
Beginning in 2020, we have been leveraging these practices to assist in growing our base of solar contractors that install our complete energy storage systems. In addition, we have been developing distribution relationships with national solar providers to offer our storage equipment in their portfolio of products and services. 
 
Our industrial network consists of a combination of primary distributors as well as a support network of dealers serving the global market. Over the past several years, we have been expanding our dealer network globally through acquisitions and organic means, in order to expand our international sales opportunities. The industrial distributors and dealers provide industrial and commercial end users with ongoing sales, installation and product support. Our industrial distributors and dealers help maintain the local relationships with commercial electrical contractors, specifying engineers and national account regional buying offices. We also sell to certain Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) companies that manage more complex power generation projects.
 
Our retail distribution network includes thousands of locations across the globe and includes a variety of regional and national home improvement chains, retailers, clubs, buying groups, hardware stores and farm supply stores. These physical retail locations are supplemented by a growing presence of e-commerce retailers, along with a number of catalog retailers. This network primarily sells our residential standby, portable and light-commercial generators, as well as our other engine powered tools. The placement of our products at retail locations drives significant awareness for our brands and the automatic home standby product category.
 
Our wholesaler network distributes our residential and light-commercial generators and energy storage systems. The channel consists of selling branches of both national and local distribution houses for electrical, HVAC and solar products on a wholesale basis, which in turn typically sell to electrical dealers and solar installers who are not in our dealer network.
 
On a selective basis, we have established private label and licensing arrangements with third party partners to provide residential, light-commercial and industrial generators. These partners include leading home equipment, electrical equipment and construction machinery companies, each of which provides access to incremental channels of distribution for our products.
 
The distribution for our C&I mobile products includes international, national, regional and specialty equipment rental companies, equipment distributors and construction companies, which primarily serve non-residential building construction, road construction, energy markets and special events. In addition, international acquisitions have provided access to numerous independent distributors in over 150 countries.
 
We sell direct to certain national and regional account customers that are the end users of our products covering a number of end market verticals, including telecommunication, retail, banking, energy, utilities, healthcare, convenience stores, grocery stores and other light commercial applications. Additionally, our residential products are sold direct to individual consumers, who are the end users of the product. In the grid services space, our Enbala business sells software and power direct to utilities and energy retailers.
 
4

Table of Contents
 
Business Strategy
 We have been executing on our strategic plan called "Power Our Future", which serves as the framework for the significant investments we have made to capitalize on the long-term growth prospects of Generac. Our strategic plan centers around a number of key mega-trends that we believe will drive significant secular growth opportunities for our business. "Grid 2.0," climate change, the abundance of natural gas globally, an aging infrastructure, and 5G telecommunications are all major themes that we believe will drive future long-term growth. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020 has led to a new and emerging trend that we refer to as "Home as a Sanctuary," where millions of people are working, learning, shopping, entertaining, and in general, spending more time at home, which has resulted in a significant increased awareness for backup power security and willingness to invest more in home improvement projects. As we continue to move our strategic plan into the future, we are focused on a number of initiatives that are driven by the following four key objectives:
 
Growing the residential power solutions market. This encompasses the still underpenetrated market for home standby generators along with the emerging market for energy storage, monitoring and management systems. As the leader in the home standby generator market, it is incumbent upon us to continue to drive growth and increase the penetration rate of these products in households across the world. Central to this strategy is to increase the awareness, availability and affordability of home standby generators. Ongoing power outage activity due to more severe weather and an aging electrical grid, combined with expanding and developing our residential/light commercial dealer base and overall distribution in affected regions, are key drivers in elevating the awareness of home standby generators over the long term. We intend to continue to supplement these key growth drivers by focusing on a variety of strategic initiatives targeted toward generating increased sales leads, improving close rates and reducing the total overall cost of a home standby system. In addition, we intend to continue to focus on innovation in this growing product category and introduce new products and solutions into the marketplace. With only approximately 5.0% penetration of the addressable market of homes in the United States (which we define as single-family detached, owner-occupied households with a home value of over $125,000, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau's 2019 American Housing Survey for the United States), we believe there are significant opportunities to further penetrate the residential standby generator market both domestically and internationally.
 
In early 2020, we launched our PWRcell™ energy storage system into the market and began to significantly ramp up our shipment volumes for these products. We expect the market for clean energy products to grow significantly as the energy landscape continues to change and favor on-site renewable power, and homeowners increasingly appreciate the improved payback and resiliency provided by these systems. We expect to further advance our growing capabilities for energy storage systems including product development, sourcing, distribution, and marketing, as well as leveraging our significant competencies developed over the past two decades to grow the residential standby generator market to accelerate our market position in the emerging residential energy storage, monitoring and management markets.
 
Gaining market share and entering new markets. We continue to sharpen our focus on improving our share of the power equipment markets in which we participate around the world by emphasizing our innovation and continually expanding our product lines and services. We design and build a wide range of products from stationary, portable, and mobile generators, light towers, field and brush mowers and trimmers, pressure washers, pumps, and other engine powered equipment. We have many advantages over our competitors with strengths in our engineering, sourcing and operations capabilities as well as a global distribution network that we believe can be leveraged further for continued market share gains. We are also focused on expanding our addressable market opportunities by entering new markets, be it with new products or new geographies around the world.
 
Lead with natural gas power generation products. We will attempt to gain incremental market share within commercial and industrial markets through our leading position in the growing market for cleaner burning, more cost effective natural gas fueled standby power solutions. Demand for these products continues to represent an increasing portion of the overall C&I market, which we believe will continue to increase at a faster rate than traditional diesel fueled generators as a result of their lower capital investment and operating costs. Given the abundance of natural gas as a global source for base-load power, we also intend to explore new gaseous generator related market opportunities, including increasing our product capabilities for applications beyond standby generation including continuous-duty, prime rated, distributed generation, demand response, micro grids and overall use as a distributed energy resource in areas where grid stability or capacity is needed. We plan to do this by leveraging our deep technical capabilities for gaseous-fueled products, leading position for natural gas standby generators and growing market acceptance for these products. As part of this strategy, we plan to continue to expand our natural gas product offering into larger power nodes to take advantage of the continuing shift from diesel to natural gas generators.
 
Connect to monitor and manage energy technology products. We will work to continue to diversify our business model from primarily “equipment centric” to a systems and services provider through connectivity solutions and subscription based applications deployed enterprise wide. This includes an important emphasis on improving the end-user experience, helping customers to lower utility costs and to help offset the purchase cost of our equipment over the product's lifespan. A critical focus continues to be increasing the connection with our products to unlock opportunities and revenue streams. We have developed and acquired tools and programs that add value to dealers, utilities, energy retailers and end-users that will result in recurring revenue from subscriptions and parts. We leverage data obtained from connected devices by developing predictive analytics that result in continuously improving product quality, sales processes and tools, energy optimization, aftermarket penetration, customer experience and alignment with dealers. Finally, we will continue to build or acquire energy management capabilities to monetize an ecosystem of devices that relate to energy use, storage, generation, control and optimization, including capitalizing on the future ability of these devices to be used as distributed energy resources in grid services applications around the world to help support the operational stability of electrical grids.
 
Expansion globally is a core element to the success of each of our strategic objectives. The acquisitions completed over the past several years that now comprise our International segment have significantly increased our global presence by adding product, manufacturing and distribution capabilities that serve local markets around the world, and have resulted in us becoming a leading global player for backup power and mobile power equipment. As we look forward, we intend to leverage our increased international footprint attained from these acquisitions to serve the significant global markets for power generation, energy storage, monitoring and management, and grid services outside the U.S. and Canada.
 
5

Table of Contents
 
See “Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Business Drivers and Trends” for additional drivers that influence demand for our products and other trends affecting the markets that we serve.
 
Manufacturing
 
We operate numerous manufacturing plants, distribution facilities and inventory warehouses located throughout the world. We store finished goods at third-party logistics providers in the United States that accommodate material storage and rapid response requirements of our customers. See “Item 2 – Properties” for additional details regarding the locations and activities of our principal operations.
 
In recent years, we have added and continue to add manufacturing capacity through investments in automation, improved utilization and the expansion of our manufacturing footprint through organic means as well as through acquisitions. We believe we will have sufficient capacity to achieve our business goals for the near-to-intermediate term.
 
Research and Development
 
Our focus on power generation equipment, energy storage systems, grid services solutions and other power products drives technological innovation, specialized engineering and manufacturing competencies. Research and development (R&D) is a core competency and includes a staff of over 500 engineers working on numerous projects at various facilities worldwide. These activities are focused on developing new technologies and product enhancements, as well as maintaining product competitiveness by reducing manufacturing costs, improving safety characteristics, reliability and performance while ensuring compliance with regulatory standards. We have over 35 years of experience using natural gas engines and have developed specific expertise with fuel systems and emissions technology. In the residential and light commercial markets, we have developed proprietary engines, cooling packages, controls, fuel systems and emissions systems. The Pika Energy and Neurio Technologies acquisitions have provided significant resources and expertise in the energy storage and energy monitoring markets, which has been leveraged to further advance the competencies in these areas as well as an increased focus on energy management. This includes advanced capabilities with power electronics and battery management software, along with proprietary inverter technologies and hardware and software for energy monitoring and management. We also have engineering and product management resources focused on evaluating and developing alternative technologies that could become commercially viable options for de-carbonized power generation over the long term. We believe that our expertise in energy technology solutions provides us with the capability to develop new products and services that will allow continued diversification in our end markets.
 
Intellectual Property
 
We are committed to research and development, and we rely on a combination of patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our patents protect certain features and technologies we have developed for use in our products including fuel systems, air flow, electronics and controls, noise reduction, air-cooled engines, and load management. We believe the existence of these patents and trademarks, along with our ongoing processes to register additional patents and trademarks, protect our intellectual property rights and enhance our brands and competitive position. We also use proprietary manufacturing processes that require customized equipment. With our continuous focus on research and development, we expect to develop new intellectual property on an ongoing basis.
 
Suppliers of Raw Materials, Components and Equipment
 
Our primary raw material inputs are steel, copper and aluminum, all of which are purchased from third parties and, in many cases, as part of machined or manufactured components. In certain instances, we purchase from third-party suppliers complete equipment and systems. Within the clean energy market, we expect batteries to be a significant supply chain input for our energy storage systems. We have developed an extensive network of reliable suppliers in the United States and around the world. We believe our Strategic Global Sourcing function is a competitive strength and continuously evaluates the quality and cost structure of our purchased components and equipment and assesses the capabilities of our supply chain. Components and equipment are sourced accordingly based on this evaluation. Our supplier quality engineers conduct on-site audits of major supply chain partners and help to maintain the reliability of critical sourced components and equipment.
 
Competition
 
The market for power generation equipment, energy storage systems, grid services solutions and other engine powered products is competitive. We face competition from a variety of large diversified industrial companies as well as smaller generator manufacturers, along with mobile equipment, engine powered tools, solar inverter, battery storage and grid services providers, both domestic and internationally.
 
Specifically in the generator market, most of the traditional participants compete on a more focused basis, targeting specific applications within their larger diversified product mix. We are the only significant market participant with a primary focus on power equipment with a key emphasis on standby, portable and mobile generators with broad capabilities across the residential, light-commercial and industrial markets. We believe that our engineering capabilities and core focus on generators provide us with manufacturing flexibility and enables us to maintain a first-mover advantage over our competition for product innovation. We also believe our broad product offering, diverse omni-channel distribution model and strong factory support provide additional advantages as well.
 
The Company in recent years has been evolving its business model toward more of a focus on clean energy products, solutions and services, which has introduced a new set of competitors. 
 
6

Table of Contents
 
A summary of the primary competitors across our main product classes is as follows:
 
Residential products – Kohler, Briggs & Stratton, Cummins, Honda, Champion, Techtronics International, Husqvarna, Ariens, LG Chem, Tesla, Enphase, and Solar Edge, along with a number of smaller domestic and foreign competitors; certain of which also have broad operations in other manufacturing businesses.
 
C&I products – Caterpillar, Cummins, Kohler, IGSA, Wacker, MultiQuip, Terex, Doosan, Briggs & Stratton (Allmand), Atlas Copco, Himoinsa, and FG Wilson; certain of which focus on the market for diesel generators as they are also diesel engine manufacturers. Also, we compete against other regional packagers that serve local markets throughout the world.
 
Other products – Relative to service parts and extended warranty revenue, all of the above named companies are primary competitors. Relative to grid services optimization software, Autogrid, Energy Hub, along with other grid service solution providers.
 
In a continuously evolving market, we believe our scale and broad capabilities make us well positioned to remain competitive. We compete primarily on the basis of brand reputation, quality, reliability, pricing, innovative features, breadth of product offering, product availability and factory support.
 
Human Capital
 
"Our People" is one of the foundational elements to our “Powering Our Future” strategy and is a corporate value as well. We foster a culture of diversity and engagement to strengthen our company while supporting individual achievement, inclusivity and good corporate citizenship globally. We believe our success is directly tied to our employees’ personal and professional growth. We care about the safety and well-being of our employees, their families, and our communities.
 
Some examples of key human capital programs and initiatives that we are focused on include:
 
Health, wellness and safety – Employee health and safety is the Company’s top priority. Generac’s Healthy & Thriving Total Rewards are based on the four pillars of balance, security, well-being and community. These programs are designed to meet the varied and evolving needs of our diverse workforce. We maintain an employee wellness program, incentivize healthy-living activities, provide emergency paid COVID-19 leave benefits to help employees care for themselves and their families, and we develop and administer company-wide policies to ensure the safety of each employee and compliance with government agency and other standards.
 
Diversity and inclusion – At Generac, people with diverse backgrounds and points of view work together to support our customers around the globe.  As an inclusive workplace, our employees embrace diversity in all forms, celebrate differences, and treat others with equity and respect.  We have hosted a series of culture-changing listening and learning sessions, championed Unconscious Bias training for our employees, launched employee-led Business Employee Resource Groups (BERG) to facilitate networking and connections with peers and leadership, and partner with community job agencies representing disabled clients and workforce release programs to provide job opportunities to those who face barriers to employment.
 
Talent development & employee engagement – We prioritize and invest in creating opportunities to help employees build careers at Generac. We hold internal career events as well as partner with local educational resources to offer on the job learning, collaborative work experiences and formal learning programs on continuous improvement and project management skills to support progressions and advancement of our workforce. Further, we maintain an ongoing global employee engagement initiative with targeted action plans by region, function, and business group. Action plans and their progress are measured by global employee engagement surveys.
 
As of December 31, 2020, we had 6,797 employees (6,452 full time and 345 part-time and temporary employees). Of those, 3,705 employees were directly involved in manufacturing at our manufacturing facilities.
 
Domestically, we have had an “open shop” bargaining agreement for the past 50 years. The current agreement, which expires October 17, 2021, covers our Eagle, Wisconsin facility. Additionally, our plants in Mexico, Italy and Spain are operated under various local or national union groups. Our other facilities are not unionized.
 
Regulation, including Environmental Matters
 
As a manufacturing company, our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations covering environmental, health and safety matters. Applicable laws and regulations include those governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and employee safety, as well as the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment, and disposal of waste and other materials. In addition, our products are subject to various laws and regulations relating to, among other things, emissions and fuel requirements, as well as labeling, storage, transport, and marketing.
 
Our products sold in the United States are regulated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), California Air Resources Board (CARB) and various other state and local air quality management districts. These governing bodies continue to pass regulations that require us to meet more stringent emission standards, and all of our engines and engine-driven products are regulated within the United States and its territories. In addition, certain products in the United States are subject to safety standards as established by various other standards and rule making bodies, or state and local agencies, including the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC).
 
Similarly, other countries have varying degrees of regulation for our products, depending upon product application and fuel types.
 
Available Information
 
The Company’s principal executive offices are located at S45 W29290 Highway 59, Waukesha, Wisconsin, 53189 and the Company’s telephone number is (262) 544-4811. The Company’s website is www.generac.com. The Company’s annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports are available free of charge through the “Investor Relations” portion of the Company’s web site, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The information provided on these websites is not part of this report and is therefore not incorporated herein by reference.
 
Information About Our Executive Officers
 
The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers:
 
Name
 
Age
 
Position
Aaron P. Jagdfeld
 
49
 
President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
York A. Ragen
 
49
 
Chief Financial Officer
Russell S. Minick
 
60
 
Chief Marketing Officer
Tom Pettit
 
52
 
Chief Operations Officer
Erik Wilde
 
46
 
Executive Vice President, Industrial, Americas
Patrick Forsythe
 
53
 
Chief Technical Officer
Raj Kanuru
 
50
 
Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
 
7

Table of Contents
 
Aaron P. Jagdfeld has served as our Chief Executive Officer since September 2008, as a director since November 2006 and was named Chairman in February 2016. Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Jagdfeld worked for Generac for 15 years. He began his career in the finance department in 1994 and became our Chief Financial Officer in 2002. In 2007, he was appointed President and was responsible for sales, marketing, engineering and product development. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Jagdfeld worked in the audit practice of the Milwaukee, Wisconsin office of Deloitte and Touche. Mr. Jagdfeld holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.
 
York A. Ragen has served as our Chief Financial Officer since September 2008. Prior to becoming Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Ragen held Director of Finance and Vice President of Finance positions at Generac. Prior to joining Generac in 2005, Mr. Ragen was Vice President, Corporate Controller at APW Ltd., a spin-off from Applied Power Inc., now known as Enerpac Tool Group. Mr. Ragen began his career at Arthur Andersen in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin office audit practice. Mr. Ragen holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater.
 
Russell S. Minick began serving as our Chief Marketing Officer in August 2016. In addition to his CMO responsibilities, Mr. Minick was appointed President of our Energy Technology business in January 2021. Prior to these appointments, he served as our Executive Vice President, Residential Products since October 2011, with this responsibility being expanded in January 2014 to Executive Vice President, North America. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Minick was President & CEO of Home Care Products for Electrolux from 2006 to 2011, President of The Gunlocke Company at HNI Corporation from 2003 to 2006, Senior Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Product Development at True Temper Sports from 2002 to 2003, and General Manager of Extended Warranty Operations for Ford Motor Company from 1998 to 2002. Mr. Minick is a graduate of the University of Northern Iowa, and holds a degree in marketing.
 
Tom Pettit began serving as our Chief Operations Officer in February 2020. From 2017 until February 2020, Mr. Pettit was Executive Vice President and Chief Integrated Supply Chain Officer of nVent Electric plc, a leading global provider of electrical connection and protection solutions and a former subsidiary of Pentair plc (“Pentair”), a global industrial company. Mr. Pettit previously served as the Operations Vice President of Pentair from 2015 until 2017, and as the Chief Operating Officer for BioScrip, Inc., a provider of infusion and home care management solutions, from 2014 until 2015. Mr. Pettit holds a B.S. in General Engineering from West Point Military Academy and an MBA from the University of Hawaii.
 
Erik Wilde began serving as our Executive Vice President, Industrial, Americas in July 2016. Mr. Wilde was Vice President and General Manager of the Mining Division for Komatsu America Corp., a manufacturer of construction, mining, and compact construction equipment, from 2013 until he joined Generac. Prior to that role, he held leadership positions as Vice President of the ICT Business Division and Product Marketing at Komatsu America Corp. beginning in 2005. Mr. Wilde holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in Management from Boise State University and an M.B.A. from the Keller Graduate School of Management.
 
Patrick Forsythe has served as our Chief Technical Officer since January 2021. He previously served as our Executive Vice President of Global Engineering since July 2015. Prior to re-joining Generac, Mr. Forsythe was Vice President, Global Engineering & Technology of Hayward Industries from 2008 to 2015, Vice President, Global Engineering at Ingersoll Rand Company (and the acquired Doosan Infracore International) from 2004 to 2008, and Director of Engineering at Ingersoll Rand Company from 2002 to 2004. Prior to 2002, Mr. Forsythe worked in various engineering management capacities with Generac from 1995 to 2002. Mr. Forsythe holds a Higher National Diploma (HND) in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Ulster (United Kingdom), a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering, and an M.S. in Manufacturing Management & Technology from The Open University (United Kingdom).
 
Raj Kanuru is our Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary and is the Company’s principal legal and compliance officer, roles that he has held since joining Generac in 2013. Prior to joining Generac, Mr. Kanuru served as in-house counsel at Caterpillar Inc. for almost 14 years within various leadership roles, including in the Securities, Regulatory and Tax group, at Caterpillar Financial, and in Caterpillar’s Energy & Transportation group. From 2009 to 2013, Mr. Kanuru served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Progress Rail Services Inc., and its subsidiaries (a Caterpillar company). He began his legal career as a senior associate in the tax consulting practice of Arthur Andersen LLP. Mr. Kanuru holds a Bachelor of Science in Finance degree from Birmingham-Southern College and received his Juris Doctor degree from the University of Alabama.
