Genuine Parts Company, a Georgia corporation incorporated on May 7, 1928, is a leading service organization engaged in the distribution of automotive and industrial replacement parts, each described in more detail below. In 2020, business was conducted from more than 10,000 locations throughout North America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand ("Australasia") via an offering of best in class operating and distribution efficiencies, industry leading coverage of consumable/replacement parts, outstanding just-in-time service and enhanced technology solutions.
As used in this report, the “Company” refers to Genuine Parts Company and its subsidiaries, except as otherwise indicated by the context; and the terms “automotive parts” and “industrial parts” refer to replacement parts in each respective category.
For financial information regarding segments as well as our geographic areas of operation, refer to the segment data footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company’s website can be found at www.genpt.com. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, access to the Company’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other reports, and any amendments to these documents, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Additionally, our corporate governance guidelines, codes of conduct and ethics, and charters of the Audit Committee and the Compensation, Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, as well as information regarding our procedure for shareholders and other interested parties to communicate with our Board of Directors, are available on our website.
In Part III of this Form 10-K, we incorporate certain information by reference to our proxy statement for our 2021 annual meeting of shareholders. We expect to file that proxy statement with the SEC on or about March 2, 2021, and we will make it available online at the same time at http://www.proxydocs.com/gpc. Please refer to the proxy statement for the information incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K when it is available.
BUSINESS PRODUCTS GROUP
We previously reported the results of our Business Products Group as a segment. The Business Products Group was engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad line of office and other business-related products through a diverse customer base of resellers for use in businesses, schools, offices, and other institutions. Business products fall into the general categories of office furniture, technology products, general office, school supplies, cleaning, janitorial and break room supplies, safety and security items, healthcare products and disposable food service products. As further described in the acquisitions, divestitures and discontinued operations footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, effective June 30, 2020, the Company completed the divestiture of its Business Products Group by selling Supply Source Enterprises, Inc. ("SSE") and S.P. Richards Company ("SPR") in separate transactions. The results of operations, financial position and cash flows for the Business Products Group are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The Company maintains an immaterial investment in SPR, which is included within other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. As a result of the reclassification of the Business Products Group business to discontinued operations, we now have two segments: the Automotive Parts Group and the Industrial Parts Group. Our description and discussion within this "Item 1. Business" reflect the continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. Our segments are further detailed in the segment data footnote in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
AUTOMOTIVE PARTS GROUP
The Automotive Parts Group distributes automotive parts and accessory items in North America, Europe and Australasia. The Automotive Parts Group offers complete inventory, cataloging, marketing, training and other programs to the automotive aftermarket in each of these regions to distinguish itself from the competition. To complement its competitiveness in the automotive aftermarket, this Group includes select investments in digital/e-commerce businesses across our operations.
During 2020, the Company’s Automotive Parts Group included National Automotive Parts Association ("NAPA") automotive parts distribution centers and automotive parts stores (“auto parts stores” or “NAPA AUTO PARTS stores”) owned and operated in the United States ("U.S.") by the Company and its U.S. Automotive Group; NAPA and Traction automotive parts distribution centers and auto parts stores in the U.S. and Canada owned and operated by the Company and NAPA Canada/UAP Inc. (“NAPA Canada/UAP”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; auto parts stores and distribution centers in the U.S. operated by corporations in which the Company owned either a noncontrolling or controlling interest; auto parts stores in Canada operated by corporations in which NAPA Canada/UAP owns a 50% interest; Repco and other automotive parts distribution centers, branches and auto parts stores in Australasia owned and operated by GPC Asia Pacific, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; automotive parts distribution centers and auto parts stores in Europe, owned and operated by Alliance Automotive Group (“AAG”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
2
Table of Contents
The Company’s automotive parts distribution centers distribute replacement parts (other than body parts) for substantially all motor vehicle makes and models in service in the U.S., including imported vehicles, hybrid and electric vehicles, trucks, SUVs, buses, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and farm vehicles. In addition, the Company distributes replacement parts for small engines, farm equipment, marine equipment and heavy duty equipment. The Company’s inventories also include accessory items for such vehicles and equipment, and supply items used by a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket, such as repair shops, service stations, fleet operators, automobile and truck dealers, leasing companies, bus and truck lines, mass merchandisers, farms, industrial concerns and individuals who perform their own maintenance and parts installation.
The Company's automotive parts network was expanded in 2020 via the acquisition of various store groups and automotive operations in North America, Europe and Australasia.
Distribution System.    In 2020, the Company's U.S. Automotive Group operated 52 domestic NAPA automotive parts distribution centers located in 37 states and approximately 1,190 domestic company-owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located in 46 states. The U.S. Automotive Group is supported by several operations that are integral to the NAPA supply chain. In addition, this Group operates two TW Distribution heavy duty parts distribution centers which serve 22 company-owned Traction Heavy Duty parts stores located in eight states.
At December 31, 2020, the Company had either a noncontrolling, controlling (less than 100% owned) or other interest in seven corporations, which operated approximately 268 auto parts stores in 12 states. The Company’s domestic automotive operations have access to approximately 565,000 different parts and related supply items. These items are purchased from hundreds of different suppliers, with approximately 48% of 2020 automotive parts inventories purchased from 10 major suppliers. Since 1931, the Company's domestic operations have had return privileges with most of its suppliers, which have protected the Company from inventory obsolescence.
The Company’s domestic distribution centers serve the company-owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores and approximately 4,700 independently-owned NAPA AUTO PARTS stores located throughout the U.S. NAPA AUTO PARTS stores, in turn, sell to a wide variety of customers in the automotive aftermarket. Collectively, sales to these independent automotive parts stores account for approximately 60% of the Company’s total U.S. Automotive sales and 22% of the Company’s total sales.
NAPA Canada/UAP, founded in 1926, is a leader in the distribution and marketing of replacement parts and accessories for automobiles and trucks and is also a significant supplier to the mining and forestry industries in Canada. NAPA Canada/UAP operates a network of eight NAPA automotive parts distribution centers, four heavy duty parts distribution centers, one fabrication/remanufacturing facility and one Altrom distribution center supplying 573 NAPA stores, 122 Traction wholesalers and 24 Altrom branches. The NAPA stores and Traction wholesalers in Canada include 198 company-owned stores, 13 joint ventures and 21 progressive owners in which NAPA Canada/UAP owns a 50% interest and 463 independently owned stores. NAPA and Traction operations supply bannered installers and independent installers in all provinces of Canada, as well as networks of service stations and repair shops operating under the banners of national accounts. NAPA Canada/UAP is a licensee of the NAPA® name in Canada.
In Australia and New Zealand, GPC Asia Pacific, originally established in 1922, is a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories. GPC Asia Pacific operates 12 distribution centers, 406 auto parts stores under the Repco banner, 112 auto parts stores under NAPA, Ashdown Ingram and other banners, and 18 locations associated with AMX/McLeod.
AAG, founded in 1989, is a leading European distributor of vehicle parts, tools, and workshop equipment with its primary operations in six countries in Europe. In France, AAG operates 17 distribution centers and serves 1,083 stores, of which 253 are company-owned, under the banners GROUPAUTO France, Precisium Group, Partner's, and GEF Auto. In the United Kingdom ("U.K."), AAG operates 34 distribution centers and serves 818 stores, of which 220 are company-owned, under the banners GROUPAUTO UK & Ireland and UAN. In Germany, AAG operates 11 distribution centers and 59 company-owned stores under the banner Alliance Automotive Group Germany. In Poland, AAG serves 210 affiliated outlets under the banner GROUPAUTO Polska. In the Netherlands and Belgium, AAG operates under the banner Alliance Automotive Group Benelux through a network of one national distribution center, 6 regional warehouses and 215 stores, of which 153 are company owned.
Products.    The Company’s automotive distribution network provides access to hundreds of thousands of different parts and related supply items. Each item is cataloged and numbered for identification and accessibility. Significant inventories are carried to provide for fast and frequent deliveries to customers. The majority of orders are filled and shipped the same day they are received. The Company does not manufacture any of the products it distributes. The majority of products are distributed in North America under the NAPA® name, a mark licensed to the Company by NAPA, which is important to the sales and marketing of these products. Traction sales also include products distributed under the HD Plus name, a proprietary line of automotive parts for the heavy duty truck market. In Australasia and Europe, products are distributed under several brand names, including many of the national brands, as well as the NAPA® name.
3
Table of Contents
Service to NAPA AUTO PARTS Stores.    The Company believes that the quality and the range of services provided to its North American automotive parts customers constitute a significant advantage for its automotive parts distribution system. Such services include fast and frequent delivery, parts cataloging (including the use of electronic NAPA AUTO PARTS catalogs) and stock adjustment through a continuing parts classification system which, as initiated by the Company from time to time, allows independent retailers (“jobbers”) to return certain merchandise on a scheduled basis. The Company offers its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers various management aids, marketing aids and service on topics such as inventory control, cost analysis, accounting procedures, group insurance and retirement benefit plans, as well as marketing conferences and seminars, sales and advertising manuals and training programs.
The Company has developed and refined an inventory classification system to determine optimum distribution center and auto parts store inventory levels for automotive parts stocking based on automotive registrations, usage rates, production statistics, technological advances, including predictive analytics, and other similar factors. This system, which undergoes continuous analytical review, is an integral part of the Company’s inventory control procedures and comprises an important feature of the inventory management services that the Company makes available to its NAPA AUTO PARTS store customers. Over the last 25 years, losses to the Company from obsolescence have been insignificant and the Company attributes this to the successful operation of its classification system, which involves product return privileges with most of its suppliers.
NAPA.    The Company is the sole member of the National Automotive Parts Association, LLC a voluntary association formed in 1925 to promote the distribution of automotive parts for its members. NAPA, which neither buys nor sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association whose sole member in 2020 owned and operated 52 distribution centers located throughout the U.S. NAPA develops marketing concepts and programs that may be used by its members which, at December 31, 2020, includes only the Company. It is not involved in the chain of distribution.
Among the automotive products purchased by the Company from various manufacturers for distribution are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised and promoted as “NAPA” lines. Generally, the Company is not required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so designated and it may, and does, purchase competitive lines from the same as well as other supply sources.
The Company uses the federally registered trademark NAPA® as part of the trade name of its distribution centers and parts stores. The Company funds NAPA’s national advertising program, which is designed to increase public recognition of the NAPA name and to promote NAPA product lines.
The Company is a party, together with the former members of NAPA, to a consent decree entered by the Federal District Court in Detroit, Michigan, on May 4, 1954. The consent decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of territories among the Company and former NAPA members, fixing of prices or terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or determining the number and location of, or arrangements with, auto parts customers.
Competition.    The automotive parts distribution business is highly competitive. The Company competes with automobile manufacturers (some of which sell replacement parts for vehicles built by other manufacturers as well as those that they build themselves), automobile dealers, warehouse clubs and large automotive parts retail chains. In addition, the Company competes with the distributing outlets of parts manufacturers, oil companies, mass merchandisers (including national retail chains), and with other parts distributors and retailers, including online retailers. The Automotive Parts Group competes primarily on product offering, service, brand recognition and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business.”
INDUSTRIAL PARTS GROUP
The Industrial Parts Group operates in both North America and Australasia. Motion Industries, Inc. (“Motion”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, operates in North America. Motion Asia Pacific, which was rebranded from the Inenco Group ("Inenco"), also a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company headquartered in Sydney, Australia, operates across Australasia.
Motion distributes industrial replacement parts and related supplies such as bearings, mechanical and electrical power transmission products, industrial automation and robotics, hose, hydraulic and pneumatic components, industrial and safety supplies and material handling products to MRO (maintenance, repair and operation) and OEM (original equipment manufacturer) customers throughout the U.S., Canada and Mexico.
In Canada, industrial parts are distributed by Motion Industries (Canada), Inc. (“Motion Canada”). The Mexican market is served by Motion Mexico S de RL de CV (“Motion Mexico”).
In 2020, Motion served approximately 170,000 customers in all types of industries located throughout North America, including the equipment and machinery, food and beverage, forest products, primary metals, pulp and paper, mining, automotive, oil and gas, petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted specialty industries such
4
Table of Contents
as power generation, alternative energy, government, transportation, ports, and others. Motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with access to a database of 10.4 million parts. Additionally, Motion provides U.S. government agencies access to approximately 20,500 products and replacement parts through a Government Services Administration (“GSA”) schedule.
The Industrial Parts Group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies achieved through the Company’s On-Site Solutions offering. This service provides inventory management, asset repair and tracking, vendor managed inventory ("VMI"), as well as radio frequency identification ("RFID") asset management of the customer’s inventory. Motion also provides a wide range of services and repairs such as: gearbox and fluid power assembly and repair, process pump assembly and repair, hydraulic drive shaft repair, electrical panel assembly and repair, hose and gasket manufacture and assembly, as well as many other value-added services. A highly developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and connectivity are enhanced by Motion’s leading e-business capabilities, such as MiSupplierConnect, which provides integration between the Company’s information technology network and suppliers’ systems, creating numerous benefits for both the supplier and customer. These services and supply chain efficiencies assist Motion in providing the cost savings that many of its customers require and expect.
Distribution System.    In North America, the Industrial Parts Group stocks and distributes more than 155,000 different items purchased from more than 750 different suppliers. Its service centers provide hydraulic, hose and mechanical repairs for customers. Approximately 50% of total industrial product purchases in 2020 were made from 11 major suppliers. Sales are generated from the Industrial Parts Group’s facilities located in 49 states, Puerto Rico and nine provinces in Canada and Mexico.
In Australasia, the Industrial Parts Group operated a network of distribution centers and branches across Australia, New Zealand, Indonesia and Singapore as of December 31, 2020.
Most branches have warehouse facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory representative of the products used by customers in the respective market areas served.
Products.    The Industrial Parts Group distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its customers, which are primarily industrial companies. Products include such items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains, gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, industrial supplies, assembly tools, test equipment, adhesives and chemicals. Motion also offers systems and automation products that support sophisticated motion control and process automation for full systems integration of plant equipment. The nature of Motion's business demands the maintenance of adequate inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery requirements. Virtually all of the products distributed are installed by the customer or used in plant and facility maintenance activities. Most orders are filled immediately from existing stock and deliveries are normally made within 24 hours of receipt of order. The majority of all sales are on open account. Motion has ongoing purchase agreements with many of its national account customers which, collectively, represent approximately 45% of the annual sales volume.
Supply Agreements.    Non-exclusive distributor agreements are in effect with most of the Industrial Parts Group’s suppliers. The terms of these agreements vary; however, it has been the experience of the Industrial Parts Group that the custom of the trade is to treat such agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until terminated by mutual consent.
Competition.    The industrial parts distribution business is highly competitive and fragmented. The Industrial Parts Group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of such items, general line distributors and others who provide similar services. To a lesser extent, the Industrial Parts Group competes with manufacturers that sell directly to the customer and with various industrial eCommerce sites. The Industrial Parts Group competes primarily on the breadth of product offerings, service and price. Further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in “Item 1A. Risk Factors — We face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business.”
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Company’s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop the highest quality talent. To support these objectives, the Company’s human resources programs are designed to CONNECT prospective and current talent to opportunities at the Company, ENGAGE current employees through an inclusive and diverse culture with an emphasis internally and throughout the community, and help employees to GROW for future opportunities within the organization.
Employee Retention and Professional Development
As of December 31, 2020, the Company employed approximately 50,000 people worldwide and operated within 14 countries. We take pride in our employees and are committed to helping our employees improve their physical, emotional and financial well-being. Our well-being programs include an online platform that offers an interactive way to accomplish personal and financial goals and a rewards platform for completing Company sponsored competitions and well-being activities.
The Company periodically conducts a global Engagement Survey ("the Engagement Survey") as a means of measuring employee engagement and satisfaction, as well as a tool for improving our human capital strategies. Our management reviews the results and based on the responses we have built action plans to focus on areas of improvement. We are pleased to report
5
Table of Contents
that the 2020 Engagement Survey results were overall favorable and have shown that our employees are proud to work for the Company. The results of the 2020 Engagement Survey and future surveys help us to continuously improve our human capital strategies and find ways to foster engagement and growth for our employees.
In addition, to empower employees to continually enhance their skills and reach their maximum potential, we provide a range of development programs, resources, and opportunities to help them be successful. Many are facilitated locally by each business with core leadership development at the Corporate level. One of our more significant programs is focused on high potential employees from all businesses globally. This program is a combination of in-person and virtual coursework and training with the intent to become fully immersed in the operations of our business and developing strategies and improvements cross-functionally. The Company also offers various internship and rotational programs. Our internship and rotational programs allow employees to see different operations of our business while also building strong relationships throughout the Company. Additionally, we offer various on-demand and live training courses to help our employees achieve their professional and personal goals. We believe these programs demonstrate the Company’s ongoing commitment of developing our future leaders.
Diversity and Inclusion
Our culture is strengthened by our core values, which includes a steadfast commitment to diversity and inclusion. As part of our investment in our people, we make diversity and inclusion a priority. Our goal is to create a culture where we value, respect, and provide fair treatment and equal opportunities for all employees.
In addition, the Company has created a Diversity and Inclusion Committee, led by senior leadership and representatives from each business unit to ensure accountabilities exist to advance new initiatives and causes directed at leveling the playing field for all concerned. Our commitment includes supporting organizations that advance the interests of impacted individuals as well as supporting our communities in need. In the year ended December 31, 2020, our senior leaders also participated in training and discussions around the creation of an inclusive workplace. Employees at all levels across the organization are also participating in trainings to gain a better understanding of unconscious bias and its impact on the business. Our efforts are also directed internally where we encourage the exchange of ideas, actively listen to employee dialogue, provide appropriate training, and ensure that the interests of all our employees are supported and advanced. Overall, the Company seeks to create an environment where there is a sense of belonging and all voices are valued.
Please refer to the Company's 2020 Sustainability Report and Human Rights Policy, which can be found on the Company's investor relations website, for further information on human capital management.