General
The Gap, Inc. (Gap Inc., the "Company", "we", and "our") is a collection of purpose-led, lifestyle brands offering apparel, accessories, and personal care products for women, men, and children under the Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, and Athleta brands. We also offer an assortment of products for men, women, and children through our Intermix, and Janie and Jack brands. In January 2021, we closed our Hill City brand.
Gap Inc. is an omni-channel retailer, with sales to customers both in stores and online, through Company-operated and franchise stores, Company-owned websites, and third-party arrangements. We have Company-operated stores in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Japan, Italy, China, Taiwan, and Mexico. We also have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Gap, Banana Republic, Old Navy, and Athleta stores throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names.
In addition to operating in the specialty, outlet, online, and franchise channels, we use our omni-channel capabilities to bridge the digital world and physical stores to further enhance our shopping experience for our customers. Our omni-channel services, including curbside pick-up, buy online pick-up in store, order-in-store, find-in-store, and ship-from-store, as well as enhanced mobile-enabled experiences, are tailored uniquely across our collection of brands.
In October 2020, the Company unveiled its Power Plan 2023 strategy which reflects long-term plans to grow and strengthen the Company. The Company will grow its purpose-led, lifestyle brands by leveraging our omni platform and scaled operations, extending customer reach across every age, body, and occasion through the power of the portfolio, and applying its engineered approach to cost and growth. Key initiatives include growing Old Navy and Athleta, repositioning and transforming Gap and Banana Republic, growing our online business, expanding into new categories, transforming cost through re-engineered capabilities, and scaled strategic partnerships to amplify our reach.
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the novel coronavirus disease ("COVID-19") a global pandemic and recommended containment and mitigation measures worldwide. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic has changed our customers' behaviors and as a result, we have pivoted to focus on our online business to serve customer demand by leveraging our omni fulfillment capabilities, including buy online pick-up in store, curbside pick-up and ship-from-store. These strategies align with rapidly evolving customer preferences and allow for safe shopping experiences for our customers as the Company continues to navigate the pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has also provided a unique opportunity in the sale of nonmedical masks through stores, online channel and our newly introduced business-to-business ("B2B") program.
We believe our continued efforts to transform our business will improve our customer experience, our overall performance, and ultimately position us for long-term growth.
Old Navy.  Old Navy is an American value apparel brand that makes current essentials accessible to everyone. The brand celebrates the democracy of style through on-trend, playfully optimistic, affordable, high-quality product, and inclusive size ranges. Old Navy is committed to creating incredible shopping experiences regardless of where, when and how customers choose to shop, including a fun store experience, a dynamic online channel and convenient omni-channel capabilities. Old Navy opened its first store in 1994 in the United States and since has expanded to more than 1,200 stores, including Company-operated stores in Canada and Mexico and franchise stores around the world. Old Navy believes in the power of the next generation, and through its cause platform, ONward!, supports the Boys & Girls Clubs of America to help turn learners into leaders.
1

Gap.  Gap is an iconic apparel and accessories brands anchored in modern American optimism. Founded in San Francisco in 1969, the brand's collections continue to build the foundation of modern wardrobes—all things denim, tees, fleece, and khakis, along with must-have trends.
Gap is designed to build the foundation of modern wardrobes through every stage of life with apparel and accessories for adult men and women under the Gap name, in addition to GapKids, babyGap, GapMaternity, GapBody, and GapFit collections. In fiscal 2020, the brand launched Gap Teen. Beginning in 1987 with the opening of the first store outside North America in London, Gap continues to connect with customers around the world through specialty stores, online, and franchise stores. In addition, we bring the brand to value-conscious customers, with exclusively designed collections for Gap Outlet and Gap Factory stores and online.
Banana Republic.  Acquired in 1983 as a travel and adventure outfitter, Banana Republic is a global apparel and accessories brand committed to work for a better republic. Designed for people with purpose who share a passion for life, Banana Republic is redefining luxury by using the finest materials with the latest fabric innovations to create timeless, modern and versatile clothing, eyewear, jewelry, shoes, handbags, and fragrances. Customers can purchase Banana Republic products globally in our specialty stores, factory stores, online, and franchise stores.
Athleta.  Athleta is a premium fitness and lifestyle brand creating beautiful, technical, sustainable apparel to inspire a community of active, confident women and girls. Established in 1998 and acquired by Gap Inc. in 2008, Athleta integrates technical features and innovative design across its women's collection to carry her through a life in motion, from yoga, training and sports, to everyday activities and travel. In 2016, Athleta launched Athleta Girl, mirroring its signature performance in styles for the next generation. In 2020, Athleta introduced its first sleep collection, expanded its offerings to include inclusive sizing and launched franchise stores in the UK, expanding its reach and bringing the brand to new customers.
Athleta has been certified as a benefit corporation ("B Corp"), furthering its commitment to using the business as a force for good to drive social and environmental impact. The Company met rigorous standards across social and environmental performance, accountability, and transparency. Additionally, Athleta's legal charter was amended to become a Delaware public benefit corporation, further demonstrating its commitment to people and the planet. With this accreditation, Gap Inc. has become one of the largest publicly-traded retail companies with a B Corp certified subsidiary apparel brand.
Intermix. Intermix is a curated, omni-channel, women's fashion business comprised of 31 boutiques with hyper-localized assortments and a growing e-commerce channel. The brand is known for curating the most sought-after styles from a compelling mix of both established and emerging designers. Founded in 1993 and acquired by Gap Inc. in 2012, Intermix delivers a highly personalized shopping experience across both channels, with complementary personal stylists on-hand to work one-on-one with clients to create looks that make them feel confident while making fashion fun and inspiring.
Janie and Jack. Janie and Jack is a premium children's apparel brand acquired by Gap Inc. in 2019. Janie and Jack is a design house with every kid at heart that encourages individual style from the start. Janie and Jack creates collections featuring modern twists on classic fashion and is known for family moments, thoughtful details and memorable gifts. Customers can purchase Janie and Jack products in stores throughout the United States and online.
Hill City. Hill City launched in 2018 and was a premium-performance men's apparel brand offering highly technical clothing for every part of life. In January 2021, the Company closed the Hill City brand.
The range of merchandise displayed in each store varies depending on the selling season and the size and location of the store. Stores are generally open seven days per week (where permitted by law) and most holidays.
We ended fiscal 2020 with 3,100 Company-operated stores and 615 franchise store locations. For more information on the number of stores by brand and region, see the table included in Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Form 10-K.
2

Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, and Athleta each have a private label credit card program and a co-branded credit card program through which frequent customers receive benefits. Private label and co-branded credit cards are provided by a third-party financing company, with associated revenue sharing arrangements reflected in Gap Inc. operations. During the year, we expanded our multi-tender loyalty rewards programs across the U.S. and Puerto Rico, with branded expressions across each of our purpose-led brands. Although each brand expression has a different look and feel, customers can earn and redeem rewards across all of our purpose-led brands. All of our brands issue and redeem gift cards.
Certain financial information about international operations is set forth under the heading "Segment Information" in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Form 10-K.

Product Development
We design, develop, market, and sell a wide range of apparel, footwear and accessories products reflecting a mix of basics and fashion items based on widely accepted fashion trends, striving to bring product to market quickly and provide unrivaled value to customers. We are committed to pursuing technology and product innovation that supports our sustainability efforts while also delivering great quality products to our customers. Our product teams research, test, and iterate each season to deliver the latest styles in fabrics and silhouettes that are made to last while remaining conscious of the types of materials being sourced and the suppliers they work with. We leverage feedback and purchasing data from our customer database, along with market trend insight, to guide our product and merchandising decision-making.

Marketing and Advertising
We use a variety of marketing and advertising mediums to drive brand health, customer acquisition, and engagement. We leverage our growing customer database and respond to shopping behaviors and needs with personalized content across email, site, and digital media to drive relevance and urgency. Our diversified media mix spans traditional to digital to social media. We focus on productivity of marketing investment to drive increased effectiveness.

Merchandise Vendors
We purchase private label and non-private label merchandise from over 800 vendors. Our vendors have factories in about 30 countries. Our two largest vendors accounted for about 7 percent each of the dollar amount of our total fiscal 2020 purchases. Of our merchandise purchased during fiscal 2020, substantially all purchases, by dollar value, were from factories outside the United States. Approximately 32 percent of our fiscal 2020 purchases, by dollar value, were from factories in Vietnam. Approximately 16 percent of our fiscal 2020 purchases, by dollar value, were from factories in China. Product cost increases or events causing disruption of imports from Vietnam, China, or other foreign countries, including the imposition of additional import restrictions or taxes, or vendors potentially failing due to political, financial, or regulatory issues, or public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could have an adverse effect on our operations. Substantially all of our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars. Also see the sections entitled "Risk Factors - The novel coronavirus disease (or COVID-19) pandemic is expected to continue to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations", “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing," "Risk Factors—Risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our Code of Vendor Conduct, could harm our business,” “Risk Factors—Trade matters may disrupt our supply chain” and "Risk Factors—Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Seasonal Business
Our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking during the end-of-year holiday period. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have an impact on customer behavior that could result in temporary changes in the seasonality of our business.
3


Brand Building
Our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. We believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. Virtually all aspects of brand development, from product design and distribution to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments, are controlled by Gap Inc. employees. We continue to invest in our business and enhance the customer experience through significant investments in our supply chain and digital capabilities, investments in marketing, and enhancement of our omni-channel shopping experience.

Trademarks and Service Marks
Old Navy, Gap, Gap Kids, babyGap, Gap Body, GapFit, Gap Teen, Banana Republic, Athleta, Intermix, Janie and Jack, and Hill City trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks and service marks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications, with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law.

Franchising
We have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate Old Navy, Gap, Banana Republic, and Athleta stores in a number of countries throughout Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. Under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. For additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the sections entitled “Risk Factors—Our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful” and “Risk Factors—Our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Inventory
The nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we, along with other retailers, generally build up inventory levels. We maintain a large part of our inventory in distribution centers. We review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes or colors) and we primarily use promotions and markdowns to clear merchandise. The COVID-19 related temporary store closures led to excess inventory levels. To strategically manage excess inventory, select seasonal product is being stored at our distribution centers for introduction into the market primarily in fiscal 2021. See the sections entitled “Risk Factors—We must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed,” "Risk Factors—If we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected," and "Risk Factors—Our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events" in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Competitors
The global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. We compete with local, national, and global apparel retailers. Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our business is highly competitive” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Human Capital
As of January 30, 2021, we had a workforce of approximately 117,000 employees. We also hire seasonal employees, primarily during the peak holiday selling season. As of that date, approximately 84 percent worked in retail locations, approximately 9 percent worked in headquarters locations, and approximately 7 percent worked in distribution centers. In addition, approximately 80 percent of employees were located in the U.S., with approximately 20 percent of employees located outside of the U.S. - with a majority of those non-U.S. based employees located in Canada, Asia, and Europe.
4

We know that in order to remain competitive in the retail apparel industry, we must attract, develop, and retain skilled employees in our design, merchandising, supply chain, marketing, information technology, and other functions, as well as in our stores and distribution centers. Competition for such personnel is intense. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. We understand the importance of human capital and prioritize building talent, diversity, equity and inclusion, pay equity, as well as gathering employee feedback across the company.
Building Talent. We invest in our employees through accessible resources and structured training programs that offer all employees opportunities for development. We create, manage or offer a large collection of courses for employees that cover a range of subjects such as goal setting, how to be an effective leader, situational leadership, unconscious bias and inclusive leadership, and effective communication. In addition, through a virtual platform, employees ranging from manager to vice president connect with experienced coaches to receive customized guidance that takes into account each participant's unique situation. We also offer a LinkedIn Learning program providing employees with access to micro-courses on topics from strategic thinking and mental agility, to equality and belonging and communicating with confidence.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. In addition to offering our employees extensive programs and resource groups that foster diversity and inclusion, we made important changes in 2020, including establishing nine new commitments to foster racial justice. More information on these commitments is available at www.gapinc.com/en-us/commitments1. We have also taken an important step toward greater transparency. Since 2007, we have publicly reported our global employee gender data and overall U.S. race and ethnicity data. Beginning this year, we will regularly share additional data on how our employees identify their race and ethnicity at both stores and headquarters. We will publish a dedicated Equality & Belonging report in 2021 to talk openly about our progress and the lessons we have learned along the way.
Pay Equity. Improving representation is one step, but hiring the right talent alone is not enough. We will also continue our efforts and increase our investment in pay equity. Since 2014, we have conducted annual reviews of our pay data by gender. In 2020, we began using an external firm to assess our pay data by race for all U.S. employees.
Employee Feedback. We value our employees' feedback and use opinion surveys as a critical component of our ongoing listening strategy. We use these insights to understand what is important to our employees and to determine where we should focus our investments and build new programs and strategies that help us create a thriving, productive work environment. We have modernized our approach to soliciting employee feedback, shifting from an annual company-wide opinion survey to more frequent pulse surveys on topical issues. This allows us to capture real-time data so we can understand and respond faster to employees' immediate needs. We now issue monthly surveys to representative samples of employees based on the topic, with an aim to have all employees participate in at least one survey every quarter.
Health and Safety. We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our employees and their families, as well as the health and safety of our customers. In connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented measures such as temporary store closures, increased sanitization efforts at our stores, distribution centers and headquarters offices, physical distancing, temperature checks, a mask policy for all customers and employees, and remote work arrangements for certain employees. We are committed to following strict safety protocols based on Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization as well as federal, state and local government mandates.
1 The information contained, or referred to, on our website, is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted.
5

Human Capital Oversight. The Board of Directors, as well as the Compensation and Management Development Committee, oversee human capital issues. The Compensation and Management Development Committee has formal oversight over the company's policies and strategies relating to its human capital management, including policies, processes and strategies relating to employee recruitment, retention and development of management resources; executive personnel appraisal, development and selection; talent management; workforce diversity; and workplace and employment practices, as outlined in its charter. The Committee regularly receives reports on talent, succession planning, and diversity and inclusion. On a quarterly basis, the Committee receives a talent dashboard with key metrics, including employee survey feedback and turnover information. The Committee engages periodically on compensation program design for all employees at all levels.
Also see the section entitled “Risk Factors—Our failure to manage key executive succession and retention and to continue to attract qualified personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations” in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Government Regulation
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive position as compared to prior periods. Also see the section entitled "Risk Factors - The COVID-19 pandemic is expected to have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations." in Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K.

Available Information
We make available on our website, www.gapinc.com, under “Investors,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC.
Our Board of Directors Committee Charters (Audit and Finance, Compensation and Management Development, and Governance and Sustainability Committees) and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also available on our website under “Investors, Governance.” Our Code of Business Conduct can be found on our website under “Investors, Corporate Compliance, Code of Business Conduct.” Any amendments and waivers to the Code will also be available on the website.
Sustainability
Information about our sustainability efforts is available online at www.gapincsustainability.com, which provides information on our policies, social impact and environmental programs, as well as our sustainability strategy and data. Also available at www.gapincsustainability.com is a Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) table, which provides comparable data for our industry.
6

Information about our Executive Officers
The following are our executive officers:
Name, Age, Position, and Principal Occupation:
Mark Breitbard, 53, President and Chief Executive Officer, Gap Brand effective September 2020; President and Chief Executive Officer, Specialty Brands, March 2020 to September 2020; President and Chief Executive Officer, Banana Republic from May 2017 to March 2020; Chief Executive Officer, The Gymboree Corporation from January 2013 to April 2017; President, Gap North America from 2012 to January 2013; Executive Vice President, Gap North America Merchandising from 2011 to 2012; and Executive Vice President, GapKids and babyGap from 2010 to 2011.
Shawn Curran, 57, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer effective March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations from October 2017 to March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain - Logistics and Product Operations from April 2016 to October 2017; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from August 2015 to April 2016; and Senior Vice President, Logistics from 2012 to August 2015.
Nancy Green, 59, President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Navy effective October 5, 2020; interim head of Old Navy from March 2020 to October 5, 2020; President and Chief Creative Officer of the Old Navy brand from August 2019 to March 2020; President and Chief Executive Officer, Athleta from April 2013 to August 2019; and various roles at the Company’s Old Navy brand from 2009 to April 2013 including as Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer, Old Navy, leading the merchandising, design and visual merchandising teams.
Julie Gruber, 55, Executive Vice President, Global General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer since February 2016; Senior Vice President and General Counsel from March 2015 to February 2016; Vice President and Deputy General Counsel from 2007 to March 2015; and Associate General Counsel from 2003 to 2007.
Katrina O'Connell, 51, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective March 23, 2020; Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Strategy & Innovation, Old Navy from January 2017 to March 23, 2020; and Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Strategy, Banana Republic from March 2015 to January 2017. Ms. O'Connell has previously held various roles at the Company focused on both financial budgeting and forecasting for the Company's portfolio of brands, as well as roles in supply chain, IT, treasury and investor relations.
Asheesh Saksena, 56, Chief Growth Officer effective January 11, 2021; Senior Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer of Best Buy Co., Inc. from August 2020 to November 2020; President of Best Buy Health of Best Buy Co., Inc. from December 2018 to August 2020; Chief Strategic Growth Officer of Best Buy Co., Inc. from June 2016 to December 2018; and Executive Vice President, Chief Strategy Officer of Cox Communications, an American company that provides digital cable television, telecommunications and home automation services and a wholly owned subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, Inc. from October 2011 to May 2016.
Sheila Peters, 68, Executive Vice President and Chief People Officer effective March 23, 2020; Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Talent and Communications from October 2016 to March 2020; Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources and Communications from February 2013 to October 2016; and Senior Vice President, Human Resources from July 2011 to February 2013.
Sandra Stangl, 53, President and Chief Executive Officer, Banana Republic effective December 14, 2020; Co-Founder and Chief Merchant of MINE (Pearl Design Co.) from February 2019 to November 2020; Co-President, Chief Merchandising and Business Development Officer at Restoration Hardware, Inc. from December 2017 to August 2018; Co-President, New Business Development at Restoration Hardware, Inc. from May 2017 to December 2017; and President, Pottery Barn Kids and Pottery Barn Teen of Williams-Sonoma, Inc. from 2013 to January 2017.
7

Sonia Syngal, 51, Chief Executive Officer effective March 23, 2020; President and Chief Executive Officer, Old Navy from April 2016 to March 23, 2020; Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain and Product Operations from February 2015 to April 2016; and Executive Vice President, Global Supply Chain from November 2013 to January 2015. Since joining the Company in 2004, Ms. Syngal has served in key leadership and general management roles including Managing Director for the Company's Europe business, Senior Vice President for the Company's International division and Senior Vice President for the Company's International Outlet division. Prior to joining the Company, Sonia had a long career in Fortune 500 product companies, including Sun Microsystems where she led manufacturing operations, logistics and supply chain management, and at Ford Motor Co. where she held roles in product design, quality and manufacturing engineering.