Company Overview
Hanesbrands Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “Hanesbrands,” “we,” “us,” “our” or the “Company”) is a socially responsible leading marketer of everyday basic innerwear and activewear apparel in the Americas, Europe, Australia and Asia/Pacific under some of the world’s strongest apparel brands, including Hanes, Champion, Bonds, DIM, Bali, Maidenform, Playtex, Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra, Lovable, Alternative, Berlei, L’eggs and Gear for Sports. Our products are marketed to consumers shopping in mass merchants, mid-tier and department stores, specialty stores and the consumer-directed channel, which includes our owned retail locations, as well as e-commerce sites.
Unlike most apparel companies, Hanesbrands primarily operates its own manufacturing facilities. Over 70% of the apparel units that we sell are manufactured in our own plants or those of dedicated contractors. Owning the majority of our supply chain not only impacts cost, scale and flexibility, but also the ability to adhere to best-in-class management and environmental practices.
We operate in the global innerwear and global activewear apparel categories. These are stable, heavily branded categories where we have a strong consumer franchise based on a global portfolio of industry-leading brands that we have built over multiple decades, through hundreds of millions of direct interactions with consumers. With the arrival of our new Chief Executive Officer in August of 2020, we undertook a comprehensive global business review focused on building consumer-centric growth. The review resulted in our Full Potential plan, which is our multi-year growth strategy that focuses on four pillars to drive growth and enhance long-term profitability and identifies the initiatives to unlock growth. Our four pillars of growth are to grow the Champion brand globally, drive growth in Innerwear with brands and products that appeal to younger consumers, build e-commerce excellence across channels and streamline our global portfolio. In order to deliver this growth and create a more efficient and productive business model, we have launched a multi-year cost savings program intended to substantially self-fund the investments necessary to achieve the Full Potential plan’s objectives. We remain highly confident that our strong brand portfolio, world-class supply chain and diverse category and geographic footprint will help us unlock our full potential, deliver long-term growth and create stockholder value.
We take great pride in our strong reputation for ethical business practices and the success of our corporate responsibility program for community and environmental improvement. Hanesbrands earned a leadership level A score in the 2020 CDP Climate Change Report and has been a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award winner for 11 consecutive years. We are also a recognized leader for our community-building, philanthropy and workplace practices. We are continuing our commitment to make the world a more comfortable, livable and inclusive place by establishing new, wide-ranging 2030 global sustainability goals and launching a new sustainability website, www.HBISustains.com, that is designed to increase our transparency and reporting on key metrics. We approach sustainability from a broad, holistic perspective and focus our efforts in areas addressed by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, such as: good health and well-being; quality education; gender equality; climate action; clean water and sanitation; affordable and clean energy; economic growth; reduced inequalities; and responsible consumption and production.
1

Table of Contents

Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to December 31. All references to “2020”, “2019” and “2018” relate to the 53-week fiscal year ended on January 2, 2021, and the 52-week fiscal years ended on December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, respectively.
We make available copies of materials we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge at www.Hanes.com/investors (in the “Investors” section). By referring to our corporate website, www.Hanes.com/corporate, our sustainability website, www.HBISustains.com, or any of our other websites, we do not incorporate any such website or its contents into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our Brands
Our portfolio of leading brands is designed to address the needs and wants of various consumer segments across a broad range of basic apparel products. Our brands have strong consumer positioning that helps distinguish them from competitors and guides their advertising and product development. We discuss some of our most important brands in more detail below.
Hanes is the largest and most widely recognized brand in our portfolio. Hanes is the number one selling apparel brand in the United States and is found in nine out of 10 U.S. households. The Hanes brand covers all of our product categories, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear, bras, socks, T-shirts, fleece, shapewear and sheer hosiery. Hanes stands for outstanding comfort, style and value. Hanes is one of the most widely distributed brands in apparel, with a presence across mass merchandise retailers, e-commerce sites, discount stores and department stores. Through collaborations with third parties, the brand has also gained distribution with specialty retailers like Urban Outfitters and in high-end retail establishments like Nordstrom and Bloomingdales.
Champion is our second-largest brand. Founded in Rochester, New York in 1919, Champion has always been known for authentic American style and performance and helped pioneer some of the most important innovations in athleticwear, including reverse weave sweatshirts, mesh practice uniforms and sports bras. Champion athleticwear can be found in sporting goods retailers, e-commerce sites, department stores, college bookstores and specialty retailers, including Urban Outfitters, Zumiez and PacSun. In addition, Champion has collaborated with designers and other iconic brands around the world, including Coca-Cola, Dr. Seuss, Todd Snyder, Off-White, Beams and Coach. We believe the Champion brand continues to be a powerful global growth platform for Hanesbrands.
Our global portfolio includes two other megabrands with strong heritage and deep household penetration in their respective markets. The Bonds brand is over a century old and is the number one brand of men’s underwear, women’s underwear, children’s underwear, socks and babywear in Australia. DIM is a flagship European brand and a mass market leader in hosiery, men’s underwear, intimate apparel and socks in France.
Our portfolio also includes a number of iconic intimate apparel brands. Bali offers a range of bras, panties and shapewear sold in the department store channel and is the number one bra brand in U.S. department stores. Maidenform is America’s number one shapewear brand and has been trusted for stylish, modern bras, panties and shapewear since 1922. Playtex is the leading full-figure wirefree support bra brand in the United States and is sold everywhere from mass merchandise retailers to department stores.
In addition, we offer a variety of products under the following well-known brands: Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra, Lovable, Alternative, Berlei, L’eggs, and Gear for Sports.
These brands complement our primary product offerings, allowing us to give consumers a variety of options to meet their diverse needs.
Our Segments
Our operations are managed and reported in three operating segments, each of which is a reportable segment for financial reporting purposes: Innerwear, Activewear and International. These segments are organized principally by product category and geographic location. Each segment has its own management team that is responsible for the operations of the segment’s businesses, but the segments share a common supply chain and media and marketing platforms.
2

Table of Contents

The following table summarizes our operating segments by product category:
Segment	Primary Products	Primary Brands	Innerwear	Basics, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear and socks	
Hanes, Champion, JMS/Just My Size, Bali, Maidenform, Polo Ralph Lauren*
Intimate apparel, such as bras and shapewear	
Bali, Maidenform, Hanes, Playtex, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra
Activewear	T-shirts, fleece, sport shirts, performance T-shirts and shorts, sports bras, thermals and teamwear	
Champion, Hanes, Alternative, JMS/Just My Size, Gear for Sports, Hanes Beefy-T
International	Activewear, men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear, intimate apparel, socks, hosiery and home goods	
Champion, Bonds, DIM, Sheridan, Bras N Things, Hanes, Nur Die/Nur Der, Playtex, Lovable, Wonderbra, Berlei, Shock Absorber, Maidenform, Zorba, Rinbros, Abanderado, Sol y Oro, Polo Ralph Lauren*
 
 
*	Brand used under a license agreement. 
In 2020, we leveraged our product development expertise and global supply chain capabilities to quickly pivot to large-scale production of personal protective equipment (“PPE”), such as cloth face coverings and gowns, to supply to governments, large organizations, business-to-business customers and consumers for use to help mitigate the spread of the COVID-19 virus. During 2020, sales of PPE are included in our Innerwear and International segments.
Innerwear
Our Innerwear segment includes core apparel products, such as men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear, socks and intimate apparel which includes bras and shapewear, sold in the United States, under well-known brands that are trusted by consumers. We are the intimate apparel category leader in the United States with our Hanes, Bali, Maidenform, Playtex, Champion and JMS/Just My Size brands, and we are also the leading manufacturer and marketer of men’s underwear and children’s underwear in the United States under the Hanes, Champion and Polo Ralph Lauren brands. In 2020, Innerwear also includes sales of PPE including products such as cloth face coverings and gowns. During 2020, net sales from our Innerwear segment were $3.0 billion, representing approximately 45% of total net sales.
Activewear
Our Activewear segment includes activewear products, such as T-shirts, fleece, performance apparel, sport shirts and thermals, sold in the United States. We are a leader in the activewear market through our Champion, Hanes, Alternative, and JMS/Just My Size brands, where we sell products such as T-shirts and fleece to both retailers and wholesalers. We also license our Champion name for footwear and sports accessories. In our American Casualwear business, we supply our T-shirts, sport shirts and fleece products, including brands such as Hanes, Champion, Alternative and Hanes Beefy-T, to customers, primarily wholesalers, who then resell to the embellishment channel, and the consumer-directed channel. We sell licensed logo apparel in the mass retail channel and in collegiate bookstores and other channels under our Champion, Gear for Sports, Knights Apparel and Alternative Apparel brands. During 2020, net sales from our Activewear segment were $1.2 billion, representing approximately 18% of total net sales.
International
Our International segment includes innerwear, activewear, hosiery and home goods products, sold outside of the United States, that are primarily marketed under the Champion, Bonds, DIM, Sheridan, Bras N Things, Hanes, Nur Die/Nur Der, Playtex, Lovable, Wonderbra, Berlei, Shock Absorber, Maidenform, Zorba, Rinbros, Abanderado, Sol y Oro, Polo Ralph Lauren, and Bellinda brands. Our Innerwear brands are market leaders across Australia and Western and Central Europe. In the intimate apparel category, we hold the number one market share in Australia and the number two market share in France and Italy. We are also the category leader in men’s underwear in Australia, France and Spain, and in hosiery in France and Germany. In 2020, the International segment also includes sales of PPE. During 2020, net sales from our International segment were $2.3 billion, representing approximately 35% of total net sales and included sales primarily in Europe, Australasia, Asia, Canada, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Our largest international markets are Europe, Australasia, Japan, Canada, China, Mexico and South Korea.
3

Table of Contents

The following table summarizes our brands and product categories sold within each international region:
International Country/Region	Primary Products	Primary Brands	Australasia	Basics, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear and socks	
Bonds, Explorer
Intimate apparel, such as bras and shapewear	
Bonds, Bras N Things, Berlei
Activewear	Champion	Home goods	Sheridan				Europe	Basics, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear and socks	
DIM, Nur Die/Nur Der, Abanderado, Bellinda
Intimate apparel, such as bras and shapewear	
DIM, Playtex, Lovable, Wonderbra, Maidenform, Shock Absorber
Hosiery	
DIM, Nur Die/Nur Der, Bellinda
Activewear	Champion				Asia	Basics, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear and socks	
Hanes, Champion, Polo Ralph Lauren*
Intimate apparel, such as bras and shapewear	
Playtex, Wonderbra
Activewear	Champion				Americas (excluding the United States)	Basics, including men’s underwear, women’s panties, children’s underwear and socks	
Hanes, Rinbros, Zorba
Intimate apparel, such as bras and shapewear	
Wonderbra, Sol y Oro
 
*	Brand used under a license agreement. 
Customers and Distribution Channels
Our products are primarily distributed through two main channels: indirectly through our third-party brick-and-mortar wholesale customers and directly through consumer-directed sales. Third-party brick-and-mortar wholesale revenue is primarily generated by sales of our products to retailers to support their brick-and-mortar operations, as well as by royalty revenue from licensing agreements. Consumer-directed revenue is primarily generated by sales to individual consumers through our own stores or e-commerce platforms, which include both our owned sites and the sites of our retail customers. In 2020, approximately 72% of our total net sales were to third-party brick-and-mortar customers and 28% of our total net sales were consumer-directed. Additionally, third-party brick-and-mortar wholesale revenue for the year ended January 2, 2021 includes $646 million of revenue from contracts with governments in the United States and abroad generated from the sale of both cloth face coverings and gowns for use to help mitigate the spread of the coronavirus during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2020, approximately 65% of our total net sales were in the United States and approximately 35% were outside the United States. Within the United States, approximately 75% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers and wholesalers and 25% were consumer-directed. Our largest customer is Walmart Inc. (“Walmart”), accounting for 15% of our total net sales and 17% of our total apparel net sales in 2020. As is common in the basic apparel industry, we generally do not have purchase agreements that obligate our customers to purchase our products. However, the majority of our key customer relationships have been in place for 10 years or more. Walmart is our only customer with sales that exceeded 10% of our total net sales and total apparel net sales in 2020, with substantially all Walmart sales reported within our Innerwear and Activewear segments.
Sales to mass merchants in the United States accounted for approximately 18% of our total net sales in 2020 and included all of our product categories under our Hanes, Champion, Playtex, Maidenform and JMS/Just My Size brands, as well as licensed logo apparel. Mass merchants feature high-volume, low-cost sales of basic apparel items along with a diverse variety of consumer goods products, such as grocery and drug products and other hard lines, and are characterized by large retailers, such as Walmart and Target Corporation. Our largest mass merchant customer is Walmart.
Sales to mid-tier and department stores in the United States accounted for approximately 5% of our total net sales in 2020. Mid-tier stores target a higher-income consumer than mass merchants, focus more on sales of apparel items rather than other consumer goods such as grocery and drug products and are characterized by large retailers such as Kohl’s Corporation. We sell all of our product categories in mid-tier stores. Traditional department stores target higher-income consumers and carry more high-end, fashion conscious products than mid-tier stores or mass merchants and tend to operate in higher-income areas and commercial centers. Traditional department stores are characterized by large retailers such as Macy’s, Inc. and Nordstrom Inc. We sell products in our intimate apparel, underwear, socks, hosiery and activewear categories through department stores.
4

Table of Contents

Consumer-directed sales in the United States accounted for approximately 16% of our total net sales in 2020. We sell products that span across the Innerwear and Activewear product categories in the e-commerce environment through our owned e-commerce websites and through pure play e-commerce sites, such as Amazon.com (“Amazon”). We also sell a range of our products through our retail and value-based outlet stores, as well as through the e-commerce sites of our brick-and-mortar retail customers.
Sales to other customers in the United States represented approximately 26% of our total net sales in 2020. We sell T-shirts, golf and sport shirts and fleece sweatshirts to wholesalers and third-party embellishers primarily under our Hanes, Champion and Hanes Beefy-T brands. We also sell a significant range of our underwear, activewear and socks products under the Champion brand to wholesale clubs, such as Costco Wholesale Corporation, and sporting goods stores, such as DICK’S Sporting Goods Inc. We sell primarily legwear and underwear products under the Hanes and L’eggs brands to food, drug and variety stores. We also sell licensed logo apparel in collegiate bookstores. We sell products that span across our Innerwear and Activewear segments to the United States military for sale to servicemen and servicewomen and through discount retailers, such as the Dollar General Corporation. In 2020, we also sold reusable PPE, including cloth face coverings and gowns, to national, state and local government agencies to supplement supplies of nonsurgical personal protection and to large organizations, business-to-business customers and consumers for use during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Internationally, approximately 65% of our net sales were wholesale sales to retailers and 35% of our net sales were consumer-directed sales through our owned retail stores and e-commerce sites. For more information about our sales on a geographic basis, see Note, “Geographic Area Information,” to our consolidated financial statements.
Manufacturing, Sourcing and Distribution
During 2020, over 70% of the apparel units we sold were from finished goods manufactured through a combination of facilities we own and operate, and facilities owned and operated by dedicated third-party contractors who perform some of the steps in the manufacturing process for us, such as dyeing, cutting and/or sewing. We sourced the remainder of our finished goods from third-party manufacturers who supply us with finished products based on our designs. In making decisions about the location of manufacturing operations and third-party sources of supply, we consider a number of factors, including labor, local operating costs, geopolitical factors, product quality, regional infrastructure, applicable quotas and duties and freight costs. We believe that our balanced approach to product supply, which relies on a combination of owned, contracted and sourced manufacturing located across different geographic regions, increases the efficiency of our operations, reduces product costs and offers customers a reliable source of supply.
Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Hanesbrands
The manufacturing process for the finished goods that we manufacture begins with raw materials we obtain from suppliers. The principal raw materials in our product categories are cotton and synthetics. Cotton and synthetic materials are typically spun into yarn by our suppliers, which is then knitted into cotton, synthetic and blended fabrics. We source all of our yarn requirements from large-scale domestic and international suppliers. To a lesser extent, we purchase fabric from several domestic and international suppliers in conjunction with our scheduled production. In addition to cotton yarn and cotton-based textiles, we use thread, narrow elastic and trim for product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps and lace. These fabrics are cut and sewn into finished products, either by us or by third-party contractors. We currently operate 39 manufacturing facilities. Most of our cutting and sewing operations are strategically located in Asia, Central America and the Caribbean Basin. Alternate sources of these materials and services are readily available.
Finished Goods That Are Manufactured by Third Parties
In addition to our own manufacturing capabilities, we also source finished goods from third-party manufacturers, also referred to as “turnkey products.” Many of these turnkey products are sourced from international suppliers by our strategic sourcing hubs in Asia.
All contracted and sourced manufacturing must meet our high-quality standards. Further, all contractors and third-party manufacturers must be preaudited and adhere to our strict supplier and business practices guidelines. These requirements provide strict standards that, among other things, cover hours of work, age of workers, health and safety conditions, freedom of association and conformity with local laws (including wage and hour laws) and Hanesbrands’ standards. Each new supplier must be inspected and agree to comprehensive compliance terms prior to commencing any production on our behalf. We audit compliance with these standards against our 265-question, scored audit protocol using both internal and external audit teams. We are also a fully accredited participating company in the Fair Labor Association. For more information, visit www.HBISustains.com.
5

Table of Contents

Distribution
As of January 2, 2021, we distributed our products from 45 distribution centers. These facilities include 15 facilities located in the United States and 30 facilities located outside the United States, primarily in regions where we sell our products. We internally manage and operate 31 of these facilities, and we use third-party logistics providers who operate the other 14 facilities on our behalf. International distribution operations use a combination of third-party logistics providers, as well as owned and operated distribution operations, to distribute goods to our various international markets.
Inventory
Effective inventory management is key to our success. Because our customers generally do not purchase our products under long-term supply contracts, but rather on a purchase order basis, effective inventory management requires close coordination with the customer base. We seek to ensure that products are available to meet customer demands while effectively managing inventory levels. We employ various types of inventory management techniques that include collaborative forecasting and planning, supplier-managed inventory, key event management and various forms of replenishment management processes. Our supplier-managed inventory initiative is intended to shift raw material ownership and management to our suppliers until consumption, freeing up cash and improving response time. We have demand management planners in our customer management group who work closely with customers to develop demand forecasts that are passed to the supply chain. We also have professionals within the customer management group who coordinate daily with our larger customers to help ensure that our customers’ planned inventory levels are in fact available at their individual retail outlets. Additionally, within our supply chain organization we have dedicated professionals who translate the demand forecast into our inventory strategy and specific production plans. These individuals work closely with our customer management team to balance inventory investment/exposure with customer service targets.
Seasonality and Other Factors
Absent the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, our operating results are subject to some variability due to seasonality and other factors. For instance, we generally have higher sales during the back-to-school and holiday shopping seasons and during periods of cooler weather, which benefits certain product categories such as fleece. Our diverse range of product offerings, however, provides some mitigation to the impact of seasonal changes in demand for certain items. Sales levels in any period are also impacted by customer decisions to increase or decrease their inventory levels in response to anticipated consumer demand. Our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice to us. Media, advertising and promotion expenses may vary from period to period during a fiscal year depending on the timing of our advertising campaigns for retail selling seasons and product introductions.
Product Innovation and Marketing
A significant component of our business strategy is our strong product research and development and innovation capabilities, including the development of new and improved products, including our Tagless apparel platform, Comfort Flex Fit apparel platform, ComfortBlend fabric platform, temperature-control X-Temp fabric platform, FreshIQ advanced odor protection technology fabric platform, SmoothTec fabric technology, Cool Comfort fabric technology, DreamWire underwire technology and Reverse Weave StormShell Fleece fabric technology.
Driving innovation platforms across brands and categories is a major element of our business strategy as it is designed to meet key consumer needs and leverage advertising dollars. During 2020, our advertising and promotion expense was approximately $130 million, representing 2% of our total net sales. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, television and through digital initiatives including social media, online video and mobile platforms on the Internet. We also participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print and digital media and television.
Competition
The basic apparel market is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. Competition generally is based upon brand, comfort, fit, style and price. Our businesses face competition today from other large domestic and foreign corporations and manufacturers. In the United States, Fruit of the Loom, Inc., a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., competes with us across our Innerwear and Activewear segments through its own offerings and those of its Russell Corporation and Vanity Fair Intimates offerings. Other competitors in our Innerwear segment include L Brands Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret brand and Jockey International, Inc. Other competitors in our Activewear segment include Gildan Activewear, Inc. and Gap Inc. Large European intimate apparel distributors such as Triumph International and Calzedonia S.p.A. Group, as well as international activewear retailers such as Nike, Adidas, Puma, Under Armour and Converse, compete with us in our International segment. We also compete with many small manufacturers across all of our business segments, including our International segment. Additionally, mass merchant retailers, department stores and other retailers, including many of our customers, market and sell basic apparel
6

Table of Contents

products under private labels and controlled brands that compete directly with our brands. Our competitive strengths include our strong brands with leading market positions, our industry-leading innovation, our high-volume, core products focus, our significant scale of operations, our global supply chain and our strong customer relationships. We continually strive to improve in each of these areas.
Intellectual Property
We market our products under hundreds of our own trademarks in the United States and other countries around the world, the most widely recognized of which are Hanes, Champion, Bonds, DIM, Bali, Maidenform, Playtex, Sheridan, Bras N Things, Nur Die/Nur Der, JMS/Just My Size, Wonderbra, Lovable, Alternative, Berlei, L’eggs, Gear for Sports, Shock Absorber, Zorba, Rinbros and Abanderado. Some of our products are sold under trademarks that have been licensed from third parties, such as Polo Ralph Lauren men’s underwear, and licensed apparel for a number of colleges and universities, including the University of Georgia and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Some of our trademarks are licensed to third parties, such as Champion for athletic-oriented accessories. In the United States and Canada, the Playtex trademark is owned by Playtex Marketing Corporation, of which we own a 50% interest and which grants to us a perpetual royalty-free license to the Playtex trademark on and in connection with the sale of apparel in the United States and Canada. Outside the United States and Canada, we own the Playtex trademark and perpetually license such trademark to an unaffiliated third party for non-apparel products. We own the Berlei trademark in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and a limited number of smaller jurisdictions. Apart from these jurisdictions, the Berlei trademark is owned by an unaffiliated third party in most major markets, including Japan, China, the United States and the European Union. Our trademarks are important to our marketing efforts and have substantial value.
We aggressively protect these trademarks from infringement and dilution through appropriate measures, including court actions and administrative proceedings. Although the laws vary by jurisdiction, trademarks generally remain valid as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. Most of the trademarks in our portfolio, including our core brands, are covered by trademark registrations in the countries of the world in which we do business, in addition to many other jurisdictions around the world, with a registration period of 10 years in most countries. Generally, trademark registrations can be renewed indefinitely as long as the trademarks are in use. We have an active program designed to ensure that our trademarks are registered, renewed, protected and maintained. We plan to continue to use all of our core trademarks and plan to renew the registrations for such trademarks as needed.
We also own a number of copyrights. Most of our copyrights are unregistered, although we have a sizable portfolio of copyrighted lace designs that are the subject of a number of registrations at the United States Copyright Office.
We place high importance on product innovation and design, and a number of these innovations and designs are the subject of patents. However, we do not regard any segment of our business as being dependent upon any single patent or group of related patents. In addition, we own proprietary trade secrets, technology and know-how that we have not patented.
Governmental Regulation and Environmental Matters
We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States that could affect our business, including those promulgated under the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Consumer Product Safety Act, the Flammable Fabrics Act, the Textile Fiber Product Identification Act, the rules and regulations of the Consumer Products Safety Commission and various environmental laws and regulations. Some of our international businesses are subject to similar laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate. Certain of our products, including compression hosiery, face coverings and gowns, are required to be manufactured in compliance with applicable governmental standards. Our operations also are subject to various international trade agreements and regulations. While we believe that we are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable governmental regulations, current governmental regulations may change or become more stringent or unforeseen events may occur, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations.
We are also subject to various domestic and international laws and regulations relating to generating emissions, water discharges, waste, product and packaging content and workplace safety. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may result in substantial monetary penalties and criminal sanctions. We are aware of hazardous substances or petroleum releases at certain of our facilities and are working with the relevant environmental authorities to investigate and address such releases. We also have been identified as a “potentially responsible party” at certain waste disposal sites in the United States undergoing investigation and cleanup under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as Superfund) or state Superfund equivalent programs. Where we have determined that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can reasonably be estimated, we have accrued amounts on our balance sheet for losses related to these sites. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and our remedial environmental obligations historically have not had a material impact on our operations, and we are not aware of any proposed regulations or remedial obligations that could trigger significant costs or capital expenditures in connection with such compliance.
7

Table of Contents

Compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on our capital expenditures (including expenditures for environmental control facilities), earnings or competitive position. However, laws and regulations may be changed, accelerated or adopted that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon our company and which could negatively impact our operating results. See Item 1A - "Risk Factors.”
Sustainability
Unlike most apparel companies, we primarily self-manufacture our own products in facilities that we own and operate or those of our dedicated third-party contractors. Owning the majority of our supply chain not only impacts cost, scale and flexibility, but also allows us to adhere to best-in-class management and environmental practices. We are protective of our strong reputation for corporate citizenship and social responsibility and proud of our significant achievements in the areas of environmental stewardship, workplace quality and community building.
Issues such as climate change, water stress and unethical labor or human rights practices within supply chains pose risks to our business and our ability to produce our products in an ethical and sustainable manner. We assess and evaluate these risks annually as part of our Enterprise Risk Management process, which is overseen by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We also have a dedicated team responsible for managing our global sustainability program. Our Chief Executive Officer is responsible for setting overall business strategy, including our commitment to sustainability. He directly oversees our Corporate Social Responsibility Executive Steering Committee which has ultimate management oversight of our global sustainability program and meets quarterly to assess the program’s effectiveness. To drive the program across our entire organization on a global basis, we have also put in place a Global Sustainability Consortium comprising over 75 employees from multiple countries and functional areas who are responsible for executing our global sustainability initiatives and goals.
We approach sustainability from a broad, holistic perspective and focus our efforts in areas addressed by the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals, such as: good health and well-being; quality education; gender equality; climate action; clean water and sanitation; affordable and clean energy; economic growth; reduced inequalities; and responsible consumption and production. We are continuing our commitment to make the world a more comfortable, livable and inclusive place by establishing new, wide-ranging 2030 global sustainability goals and launching a new sustainability website, www.HBISustains.com, that is designed to increase our transparency and reporting on key metrics. Key highlights of our 2030 global sustainability goals include:
•People: By 2030, improve the lives of at least 10 million people through health and wellness programs, diversity and inclusion initiatives, improved workplace quality, and philanthropic efforts that improve local communities.
•Planet: By 2030, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% to align with science-based targets, reduce water use by 25%, use 100% renewable electricity in company-owned operations, and bring landfill waste to zero.
•Product: At an even quicker pace, eliminate all single-use plastics and reduce packaging weight by 25% while also moving to 100% recycled polyester and sustainably sourced cotton.
These efforts build upon our long-standing commitment to sustainability. Hanesbrands earned an industry-leading A score in the 2020 CDP Climate Change Report, following strong “A-” scores in 2018 and 2019, and has been a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star Sustained Excellence Award winner for 11 consecutive years. We are members of the Fair Labor Association, the Sustainable Apparel Coalition, The Sustainability Consortium and the Corporate Eco Forum, and we have been recognized for our socially responsible business practices by such organizations as social compliance rating group Free2Work, the United Way, Corporate Responsibility magazine and others.
Human Capital Management
Employees and Labor Relations
As of January 2, 2021, we had approximately 61,000 employees, over 88% of whom (approximately 54,000) are located outside the United States. Over 80% of our workforce (approximately 49,000 employees) is employed in our large-scale supply chain facilities located primarily in Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia. Over 93% of our workforce (approximately 56,000 employees) consists of full-time employees. As of January 2, 2021, less than 10 employees in the United States were covered by collective bargaining agreements. A significant portion of our employees based in foreign countries are represented by works councils or unions or are subject to trade-sponsored or governmental agreements. We believe our relationships with our employees are good.
Health and Safety
We prioritize the health and safety of our employees. We have created and implemented processes and training programs to maintain safe and healthy work environments in our offices, manufacturing facilities, distribution centers and retail stores,
8

Table of Contents

and we review and monitor our performance closely. During the year ended January 2, 2021, our Occupational Safety and Health Administration ("OSHA") recordable rate was 0.34, a decrease of 13% over the prior year. In response to the COVID-19 global pandemic, we enhanced our health and safety operating procedures by, among other things:
•Providing additional sanitation and enhanced ventilation;
•Implementing mandatory mask usage and social distancing measures;
•Installing protective barriers, such as sneeze guards;
•Limiting building occupancy and staggering work schedules;
•Zoning employees to segregate work teams;
•Instituting temperature checks and daily digital health self-assessments; and
•Rigorous contact tracing, testing and quarantining of employees when needed.
In addition, we provided enhanced employee benefits to our global workforce to ensure access to care, including onsite wellness clinics, payment of health insurance premiums for furloughed employees, free COVID-19 testing and mental health resources.
Diversity and Inclusion
As a global company operating in more than 40 countries on six continents, our employees represent different backgrounds, ethnicities, cultures, religions, genders, sexual orientations and ages. We believe these different perspectives strengthen our business and we strive to build an inclusive culture. As of January 2, 2020, our global workforce was approximately 33% male and 67% female, and of our domestic workforce, our employees were approximately 56% white, approximately 22% Black or African American, approximately 13% Hispanic or Latino, approximately 3.5% Asian, approximately 0.5% American Indian or Alaskan Native and approximately 2% two or more races.
Talent Development
Our talent strategy is focused on attracting the best talent, recognizing and rewarding their performance, and continually developing, engaging and retaining them. We regularly review succession plans and conduct annual assessments to identify talent needs, assess how we are positioned from a talent perspective, and prioritize actions to identify and develop talent. We also cultivate a learning environment that drives individual and business results by developing employees to reach their full potential. HBI University, our global learning platform, provides employees with access to thousands of e-learning courses, as well as instructor-led and virtual courses to strengthen technical skills, leadership, productivity, business acumen and soft skills. During 2020, over 10,000 online courses were taken globally and over 1,000 people attended in-person or virtual learning sessions in the United States. In addition, world-class management and leadership development programs in our large manufacturing hubs in Central America, the Caribbean Basin and Asia provide the foundational skills required for key talent and rising managers in our global supply chain and develop capacities for current and future leaders of the organization.
Culture and Engagement
In order to ensure that we are meeting our human capital objectives, we regularly conduct employee surveys to understand the effectiveness of our employee and compensation programs and where we can improve across our company. Our latest survey completed in 2020 had a participation rate of 59% of the 9,500 employees surveyed (which is nearly double the benchmark participation rate). The survey results indicated that we excel in areas including: overall engagement, clear expectations and a link between individuals’ work and Hanesbrands’ goals and objectives, and understanding strategic goals of the organization. Our focus on work culture has led to strong employee satisfaction and pride that has been recognized across the globe, as evidenced by many awards, including: Forbes America’s Best Large Employers in 2016 and 2017 and Great Place to Work recognition in Central America.