Introduction
The Home Depot, Inc. is the world’s largest home improvement retailer based on net sales for fiscal 2020. We offer our customers a wide assortment of building materials, home improvement products, lawn and garden products, décor products, and facilities maintenance, repair and operations products and provide a number of services, including home improvement installation services and tool and equipment rental. As of the end of fiscal 2020, we had 2,296 The Home Depot stores located throughout the U.S. (including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories of the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam), Canada, and Mexico. The Home Depot stores average approximately 104,000 square feet of enclosed space, with approximately 24,000 additional square feet of outside garden area. We also maintain a network of distribution and fulfillment centers, as well as a number of e-commerce websites. When we refer to “The Home Depot,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” or “our” in this report, we are referring to The Home Depot, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The Home Depot, Inc. is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in 1978. Our Store Support Center (corporate office) is located at 2455 Paces Ferry Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30339. Our telephone number at that address is (770) 433-8211.
Our Business
Our Strategy
The retail landscape has changed rapidly over the past several years, with customer expectations constantly evolving and the agility required to meet these expectations increasing. In fiscal 2020, this trend was accelerated due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which both spurred significant growth in home improvement demand and drove operational changes required to promote customer and associate safety.
Our ability to operate successfully and meet the needs of our customers in the pandemic environment successfully was due in significant part to the transformational journey we began in 2017 to create the One Home Depot experience, our vision of an interconnected, frictionless shopping experience that enables our customers to seamlessly blend the digital and physical worlds. Our multi-year accelerated investment program to create this experience is now largely complete. Our investments have been guided by the following strategies:
•Invest using a “customer-back” approach
•Reinforce our position as the product authority in home improvement
•Deliver a best-in-class, interconnected shopping experience
•Extend our low-cost provider position
These strategic investments are designed to extend our current competitive advantages. We believe our primary competitive advantages are: (1) our culture and associates, (2) our premium real estate, (3) our world-class merchandising organization, (4) our flexible supply chain, and (5) our digital experience. Taken together, our One Home Depot vision and execution of the related strategies are helping us to meet our two principal business objectives: continue to grow our share of the highly competitive market in which we operate and deliver shareholder value. We believe that our efforts to build the One Home Depot experience, and the groundwork we laid in these areas over the past decade, position us well to meet our objectives in any environment and have been particularly important in navigating the challenges created by the pandemic. We achieved record sales in fiscal 2020, while remaining focused on two key priorities: the safety and well-being of our associates and customers and providing our customers and communities with the products and services they need.
We also remained focused on our objective to return value to our shareholders. We are steadfast in this commitment, while also recognizing that exercising corporate responsibility and being informed by the needs of our other stakeholders, including our customers, associates, supplier partners, and communities, creates value for all stakeholders, including our shareholders.
Our Customers
We serve two primary customer groups, consumers (including both DIY and DIFM customers) and professional customers, and have developed different approaches to meet their diverse needs:
DIY Customers. These customers are typically homeowners who purchase products and complete their own projects and installations. Our associates assist these customers both in our stores and through online resources
1
Table of Contents
and other media designed to provide product and project knowledge. We also offer a variety of clinics and workshops both to share this knowledge and to build an emotional connection with our DIY customers.
Professional Customers (or “Pros”). These customers are primarily professional renovators/remodelers, general contractors, handymen, property managers, building service contractors and specialty tradesmen, such as electricians, plumbers and painters. These customers build, renovate, remodel, repair and maintain residential properties, multifamily properties, hospitality properties and commercial facilities, including education, healthcare, government, institutional, and office buildings and facilities.
We have a number of initiatives to drive growth with our Pro customers, including a customized online experience, a dedicated sales force, an extensive delivery network, enhanced credit offerings and inventory management programs. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, we extended our reach in the MRO marketplace with our acquisition of HD Supply, a leading national distributor of MRO products in the multifamily and hospitality end markets. Our MRO operations use a distribution center-based model that sells products primarily through a professional sales force, e-commerce and print catalogs. We recognize the great value our Pro customers provide to their clients, and we strive to make their jobs easier and help them grow their businesses. We believe that investments aimed at deepening our relationships with our Pro customers are yielding increased engagement and will continue to translate into incremental spend.
DIFM Customers. Intersecting our DIY customers and our Pros are our DIFM customers. These customers are typically homeowners who use Pros to complete their project or installation. Currently, we offer installation services in a variety of categories, such as flooring, cabinets and cabinet makeovers, countertops, furnaces and central air systems, and windows. DIFM customers can purchase these services in our stores, online, or in their homes through in-home consultations. In addition to serving our DIFM customer needs, we believe our focus on the Pros who perform services for these customers helps us drive higher product sales.
Our Products and Services
We believe our merchandising organization is a key competitive advantage, which we maintain by delivering product innovation, assortment and value, which reinforces our position as the product authority in home improvement. In fiscal 2020, we continued to invest in merchandising resets in our stores to refine assortments, introduce a wide range of innovative new products to our DIY and Pro customers, and improve visual merchandising to drive a better shopping experience. At the same time, we remain focused on offering everyday values in our stores and online.
A typical The Home Depot store stocks approximately 30,000 to 40,000 items during the year, including both national brand name and proprietary products. Our online product offerings complement our stores by serving as an extended aisle, and we offer a significantly broader product assortment through our websites, including homedepot.com, our primary website; blinds.com, our online site for custom window coverings; and thecompanystore.com, our online site for textiles and décor products.
To help our merchandising organization keep pace with changing customer expectations and increasing desire for innovation, localization and personalization, we are continuing to invest in tools to better leverage our data and drive a deeper level of collaboration with supplier partners. As a result, we have continued to focus on enhanced merchandising information technology tools to help us: (1) build an interconnected shopping experience that is tailored to our customers’ personas, shopping context, and location; (2) ensure we have the best value in the market; and (3) optimize our product assortments.
To complement our merchandising efforts, we offer a number of services for our customers, including special programs for our Pro customers to meet their particular needs and installation services for our DIY and DIFM customers. We also provide tool and equipment rentals at over 1,300 locations across the U.S. and Canada, providing value and convenience for both our Pro and DIY customers. To improve the customer experience and continue to grow this differentiated service offering, we are continuing to invest in more locations, more tools, and better technology.
Sourcing and Quality Assurance. We maintain a global sourcing program to obtain high-quality and innovative products directly from manufacturers around the world. During fiscal 2020, in addition to our U.S. sourcing operations, we maintained sourcing offices in Mexico, Canada, China, India, Vietnam and Europe. To ensure that suppliers adhere to our high standards of social and environmental responsibility, we also have a global responsible sourcing program. Our suppliers are contractually obligated to ensure that their products comply with applicable international, federal, state and local laws. All of our suppliers must also comply with our responsible sourcing standards, which cover a variety of expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency, health and safety, environment, compensation, hours of work, and prohibitions on child and forced
2
Table of Contents
labor. To drive accountability with our suppliers, we conduct factory audits and compliance visits. Our 2020 Responsible Sourcing Report, available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility/sourcing-responsibility, provides more information about this program. In addition, we have both quality assurance and engineering resources dedicated to establishing criteria and overseeing compliance with safety, quality and performance standards for our proprietary branded products.
Intellectual Property. Our business has one of the most recognized brands in North America. As a result, we believe that The Home Depot® trademark has significant value and is an important factor in the marketing of our products, e-commerce, stores and business. We have registered or applied for registration of trademarks, service marks, copyrights and internet domain names, both domestically and internationally, for use in our business, including our proprietary brands such as HDX®, Husky®, Hampton Bay®, Home Decorators Collection®, Glacier Bay®, Vigoro®, Everbilt® and Lifeproof®. The duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. However, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained.
We also maintain patent portfolios relating to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect innovations we incorporate into our products or business operations. Patents generally have a term of twenty years from the date they are filed. As our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. Although our patents have value, no single patent is essential to our business. We will continue to assess our merchandising departments and product lines for opportunities to expand the assortment of products offered within The Home Depot’s portfolio of proprietary and exclusive brands.
Competition and Seasonality
Our industry is highly competitive, very fragmented, and evolving. As a result, we face competition for our products and services from a variety of retailers, suppliers, distributors and manufacturers that sell products directly to their respective customer bases, and service providers, ranging from traditional brick-and-mortar, to multichannel, to exclusively online. These competitors include a number of other home improvement retailers; electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses; and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO companies, home décor retailers, and other retailers, as well as with providers of home improvement services and tool and equipment rental. The internet facilitates competitive entry, price transparency, and comparison shopping, increasing the level of competition we face.
We compete primarily based on customer experience, price, quality, availability, product assortment, and delivery options, both in-store and online. We also compete based on store location and appearance, presentation of merchandise, and ease of shopping experience. Furthermore, with respect to delivery options, customers are increasingly seeking faster and/or guaranteed delivery times, low-price or free shipping, and/or convenient pickup options, including curbside pickup. Our ability to be competitive on delivery and pickup times, options and costs depends on many factors, including the success of our supply chain investments, described more fully under “One Supply Chain” below.
Our business is subject to seasonal influences. Generally, our highest volume of sales occurs in our second fiscal quarter, and the lowest volume occurs either during our first or fourth fiscal quarter.
Interconnected Shopping Experience
Our customers are shopping and interacting with us differently today than they did several years ago. As a result, we have taken a number of steps to provide our customers with a seamless and frictionless interconnected shopping experience across our stores, online, on the job site, and in their homes, focusing on continued investments in our website and mobile apps to enhance the digital customer experience.
Digital Experience. Enhancements to our digital properties are critical for our increasingly interconnected customers, who research products online and check available inventory before going into one of our stores to view the products in person or talk to an associate and then make their purchase in store or online. While in the store, customers may also go online to access ratings and reviews, compare prices, view our extended assortment, and purchase additional products. Our investments in a truly interconnected experience are focused on bringing together the power of our physical retail presence and the frictionless interaction of our digital capabilities.
Many of our interconnected customers are also comfortable with a purely online shopping experience. A significant majority of the traffic in our digital channels is on a mobile device. Mobile customers expect more simplicity and relevancy in their digital interactions. As a result, we have made significant investments to our digital properties to
3
Table of Contents
improve the overall presentation and ease of navigation for the user. We have also enhanced the “shopability” of an online product by including more information on the product’s landing page, including related products and/or parts of a collection, and a multitude of fulfillment options. Our focus on improving search capabilities, site functionality, category presentation, product content, speed to checkout, and enhanced fulfillment options has yielded higher traffic, better conversion and continued sales growth. It has also been critical during the pandemic, as customers have gravitated even more to the digital environment.
Further, we do not view the interconnected shopping experience as a specific transaction; rather, we believe it encompasses an entire journey from inspiration and know-how, to purchase and fulfillment, to post-purchase care and support, most of which takes place in the digital world. From the inspirational point of the purchase journey to providing product know-how, we are investing in the infrastructure and capabilities needed to deliver the most relevant marketing messages to our customers based upon what is important for them today. Customers expect more personalized messaging, so we are focusing on connecting marketing activities with the online and in-store experiences to create a seamless series of engagements across channels.
Store Experience. Our stores remain the hub of our business, and we are investing to improve the customer shopping experience through easier navigation and increasing the convenience and speed of checkout. For several years, our associates have used our FIRST phones to help expedite the online order checkout process, locate products in the aisles and online, and check inventory on hand. To improve the customer’s experience in our stores, we have also empowered our customers with additional self-help tools, including mobile app-enabled store navigation. Our app provides store-specific maps, which allow customers to pinpoint the exact location of an item on their mobile devices.
We have also made significant progress in our strategic store investments. In fiscal 2020, we completed the implementation of our wayfinding sign and store refresh package in all of our U.S. stores. This package included more intuitive signage, better lighting, and other store enhancements. To support our interconnected growth, we continued the roll out of self-service lockers and online order storage areas at the front entrance to offer convenient pickup of online orders. We also tested our electronic shelf label capabilities, used initially in our appliance department, in additional merchandising departments. Our store investments also include the re-design of the front end area, including reconfigured service desks, improved layouts in all checkout areas, and expanded and enhanced self-checkout options. We completed the upgrade to our self-checkout machines in fiscal 2019; however, due to the unique challenges presented by the pandemic, we paused the updates of the rest of our front ends. As we continue to learn the new ways our customers interact with our stores, we will resume upgrades as appropriate. We believe the investments we have made to date are driving higher customer satisfaction scores.
Investing in Associate Productivity. We continually strive to improve our store operations for our associates. Our goal is to remove complexity and inefficient processes from the stores to allow our associates to focus on our customers. To this end, we have focused our efforts in such areas as optimizing product flow to decrease the amount of time a store associate spends locating product and to improve on-shelf product availability; creating a simpler order management system; expanding in-aisle, real-time mobile learning tools for our associates’ own development and to assist with customer questions; and using labor model tools to better align associate activity with customer needs.
Investing in Safety. We are committed to maintaining a safe shopping and working environment for our customers and associates. We empower trained EH&S associates to evaluate, develop, implement and enforce policies, processes and programs on a Company-wide basis. Our EH&S policies are woven into our everyday operations and are part of The Home Depot culture. Some common program elements include: daily store inspection checklists (by department); routine follow-up audits from our store-based safety team members and regional, district and store operations field teams; equipment enhancements and preventative maintenance programs to promote physical safety; departmental merchandising safety standards; training and education programs for all associates, with varying degrees of training provided based on an associate’s role and responsibilities; and awareness, communication and recognition programs designed to drive operational awareness and an understanding of EH&S matters. We also implemented a number of additional measures for the safety of our associates and customers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
4
Table of Contents
One Supply Chain
We continue to focus on building best-in-class competitive advantages in our information technology and supply chain to be responsive to our customers’ expectations for how, when and where they choose to receive our products and services. As part of creating the One Home Depot experience, we are investing approximately $1 billion in the multi-year development of our One Supply Chain network, with the goal of achieving the fastest, most efficient delivery capabilities in home improvement. Our efforts are focused on ensuring product availability and increasing the speed and reliability of delivery for our customers while managing our costs.
We centrally forecast and replenish the vast majority of our store products through sophisticated inventory management systems and utilize our network of distribution centers to serve both our stores’ and customers’ needs. Our supply chain includes multiple distribution center platforms in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico tailored to meet the needs of our stores and customers based on types of products, location, transportation, and delivery requirements. These platforms primarily include rapid deployment centers, stocking distribution centers, bulk distribution centers, and direct fulfillment centers. As part of building One Supply Chain, we have invested to further automate and mechanize our rapid deployment center network to drive efficiency and faster movement of product.
We are also expanding our fulfillment network, investing in a significant number of new fulfillment facilities to drive speed and reliability of delivery for our customers and to help us meet our goal of reaching 90% of the U.S. population with same or next day delivery for extended home improvement and MRO product offerings, including big and bulky products. These facilities include omni-channel fulfillment centers, which deliver product directly to customers, and market delivery operations, which function as local hubs to consolidate freight for dispatch to customers for the final mile of delivery, with a focus on items like appliances. We are also adding flatbed distribution centers, which handle large items like lumber that are transported on flatbed trucks. As of the end of fiscal 2020, we have opened several of these various types of fulfillment facilities and will continue to build out our fulfillment network over the next few years. This network is designed to create a competitive advantage with unique, industry-leading capabilities for home improvement needs.
In addition to our distribution and fulfillment centers, we leverage our approximately 2,000 U.S. stores as a network of convenient customer pickup, return, and delivery fulfillment locations. Our premium real estate footprint provides a distinct structural and competitive advantage. For customers who shop online and wish to pick up or return merchandise at, or have merchandise delivered from, our U.S. stores, we have fully implemented our four interconnected retail programs: BOSS, BOPIS, BODFS, and BORIS. In fiscal 2020, to meet customer needs due to the pandemic, we rapidly rolled out curbside pickup to complement our BOPIS offerings, in addition to the self-service lockers at the front entrance of many of our stores. We also offer express car and van delivery service that covers over 70% of the U.S. population. As of the end of fiscal 2020, approximately 60% of our U.S. online orders were fulfilled through a store. We also continue to focus on developing new capabilities to improve both efficiency and customer experience in our store delivery program. Our strategic intent is to have a portfolio of efficient, timely and reliable sources and methods of delivery to choose from, optimizing order fulfillment and delivery based on customer needs, inventory locations and available transportation links.
Corporate Responsibility and Human Capital Management
We organize our environmental, social and governance efforts around three pillars: (1) Focus on People, (2) Operate Sustainably, and (3) Strengthen our Communities. Highlights of each of these pillars are set forth below. These pillars are reflective of our commitment to ESG and are fundamentally embedded in our operations and culture. We believe this approach creates value for all of our stakeholders, including our customers, associates, supplier partners, and the communities we serve, in turn creating long-term value for our shareholders. For further information on our three pillars and other ESG-related matters, see our annual Responsibility Report, available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility.
Focus on People. Our culture and our associates provide intangible and hard-to-replicate competitive advantages. We leverage these competitive advantages to provide an outstanding customer experience by putting customers first and taking care of our associates.
Culture and Values. The Home Depot has a strong commitment to ethics and integrity, and we are a values- and culture-centric business. Our commitment to our core values drives our approach to human capital management. Our culture is based on our servant leadership philosophy represented by the inverted pyramid, which puts primary importance on our customers and our associates by positioning them at the top, with senior management at the base in a support role. We bring our culture to life through our core values, which serve as the foundation of our business and the guiding principles behind the decisions we make every day.
5
Table of Contents
hd-20210131_g2.gif
We empower our associates to deliver a superior customer experience by living our values, and we position our associates to embody our core values by integrating the importance of our culture into ongoing development programs, performance management practices, and rewards programs. Leaders participate in programs designed to build and strengthen our culture, such as training on leadership skills, cross-functional collaboration, inclusiveness, associate engagement, and unconscious bias. Our core values are at the root of all of our human capital management programs.
Our Workforce. At the end of fiscal 2020, we employed approximately 504,800 associates, of whom approximately 35,700 were salaried, with the remainder compensated on an hourly basis. Set forth below is the geographic makeup of our workforce.
Geographic Location	Number of Associates	% of Total Workforce	United States	451,500	89.4%	Canada	34,400	6.8%	Mexico	18,600	3.7%	
Other(1)
300	0.1%	Total	504,800	100%	
(1) Includes associates in our sourcing organization located in China, Vietnam, India, Italy, Poland and Turkey.
 
Talent Attraction and Development. As we attract and hire new associates, we strive to create a customer-like experience for jobseekers as they progress through the steps of our recruiting process by focusing on speed and personalization. We employ targeted marketing practices through our careers website, which personalizes the user’s experience based on jobseeker location and searching behavior. Jobseekers can also apply for roles from anywhere using any device. Once a jobseeker has applied for a role, we prioritize self-service by allowing candidates to schedule or reschedule interviews directly from their mobile device. Lastly, we create a quick hiring process for candidates by leveraging job-matching automation.
We offer all of our associates the opportunity to benefit from robust development opportunities. We invest in ongoing growth and development by integrating our culture and values into our performance management practices, providing coaching through continuous leader support, and empowering our associates to learn new skills at their own pace through mobile applications our associates can access at any time. We equip our leaders with the tools they need to develop themselves and their teams through several programs designed to help them lead inclusively, empower their teams, and serve as mentors for our associates.
Associate Engagement. Associate engagement is the emotional commitment associates have to The Home Depot and our goals. It is vital to our culture and to our success. We create an engaging workplace by continuously listening to and acting on associate feedback. We provide several pulse check surveys to groups of associates throughout the year that help us determine how emotionally connected those associates are to our customers, the Company, their jobs, fellow associates, and leaders. In addition, our annual Voice of the Associate survey, which includes all associates, serves as our primary means of gauging associates’ level of engagement within their roles. We use the feedback from these surveys to help improve the overall associate experience. Through the years, the results from our surveys have consistently indicated that, on average, four out of five associates are emotionally committed and fully engaged. We also maintain a digital associate engagement platform that links associates with
6
Table of Contents
common interests and fuels connections to co-workers and company leaders. Additionally, we have a number of programs to recognize stores and individual associates for exceptional customer service.
Diversity and Inclusion. We believe that a diverse and inclusive workplace is key to our success. We are committed to our core values, and we strive to foster a diverse and inclusive environment where our associates are valued and respected. We work to build a workplace, retail space, and Company that reflects the customers and communities we serve. In particular, in 2020 we elevated and expanded our Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion to enhance our focus on associate diversity, supplier diversity, and our support of community- and education-related programs designed to close the wealth gap and enhance education outcomes across underserved and under-represented communities.
2020 Diversity & Inclusion Data(1)
Associate Population	Race/Ethnicity	Gender	% Minority	% White	% Female	% Male	U.S. Workforce	47%	53%	38%	62%	
U.S. Managers & Above(2)
35%	65%	32%	68%	U.S. Officers	25%	75%	29%	71% 
(1)        Information as of December 1, 2020, consistent with the date used to collect comparable data for our reporting of workforce diversity data to the Equal Opportunity Employment Commission.
(2)        Does not include officers.
As a Company, we have identified several priorities designed to guide our efforts to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion. We believe these associate- and supplier-focused priorities also enhance our customers’ experience:
•Associates
◦Increase diverse representation throughout our organization
◦Create an environment where every associate feels included and valued for who they are
◦Promote equal opportunity in recruitment, hiring, training, development and advancement
•Suppliers
◦Increase use of and spend with diverse suppliers
◦Develop diverse suppliers by providing mentorship and sharing resources
Compensation and Benefits. Consistent with our core values, we take care of our people by offering competitive compensation and comprehensive benefits programs. We continuously make wage investments to ensure our compensation packages reflect the evolving circumstances across our markets, and our profit-sharing program for hourly associates provides semi-annual cash awards for performance against our business plan. In the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to transition from the temporary COVID-19 benefits we provided to our associates during the pandemic (as discussed in more detail below) to permanent compensation enhancements for our frontline, hourly associates. In addition, our associates can take advantage of a range of benefits, including healthcare and wellness programs, a 401(k) match, personal finance education and advisory services, assistance programs to help with managing personal and work-life challenges, family support programs, and educational assistance.
Our Response to COVID-19. Our decisions and actions throughout the pandemic have been guided by our culture and rooted in our commitment to our values of doing the right thing and taking care of our associates. In fiscal 2020, we provided enhanced pay and benefits to our associates to help alleviate some of the challenges they may have been facing because of the pandemic. Over the course of the year, the enhanced pay and benefits included the following:
•An additional 80 hours of paid time off for all full-time hourly associates and 40 hours of paid time off for part-time hourly associates to be used at their discretion and paid out if not used.
•For associates 65 years of age or older or who fell into a high-risk category according to guidelines of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, we provided a total of 160 additional hours of paid time off for full-time hourly associates and 80 additional hours for part-time hourly associates.
•Additional weekly bonuses to hourly associates in stores and distribution and fulfillment centers.
•Double pay for overtime hours worked by hourly associates.
•Extended dependent care benefits with the related co-pays waived.
•Unlimited emotional and mental health counseling visits for associates.
7
Table of Contents
As noted above, in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we began to transition from these temporary COVID-19 benefits to permanent compensation enhancements for our frontline, hourly associates. For fiscal 2020, the enhanced pay and benefits collectively resulted in additional expense of approximately $2.0 billion.
Operating Sustainably. We have a long-standing and substantial commitment to sustainable business operations, from the products and services we offer to our customers; to our store construction, maintenance and operations; to our supply chain and packaging initiatives; to an ethical sourcing program. As we strive to operate sustainably, we have focused on protecting the climate, reducing our environmental impact, and sourcing responsibly, and we have set specific, measurable goals to drive progress in these areas.
Our 2020 Responsibility Report, available on our website at https://corporate.homedepot.com/responsibility, includes more information on our goals, as well as specific initiatives we have in place to help achieve these goals. Below are highlights of our sustainability program.
Our Environmental Goals. We currently have several major commitments to help combat climate change and reduce our environmental footprint:
Year Announced	Goal	Progress	2015	
Store Energy Usage: Reduce our U.S. stores’ kilowatt-hour energy use by 20% over 2010 levels by 2020
Completed	2015	
Renewable/Alternative Energy Sources: Produce and procure, on an annual basis, 135 megawatts of energy through renewable or alternative energy sources, such as wind, solar and fuel cell technology, by 2020
Completed	2017	
Customer Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Help reduce North American customers’ greenhouse gas emissions by 20 million metric tons by 2020
Completed	2017	
Customer Energy and Water Savings: Help customers save $2.5 billion in electricity costs and reduce water use by 250 billion gallons by 2020
Completed	2017	
Paint Chemical Reduction: Reduce suspect chemicals in paints by 2020
Completed	2018	
Cleaning Products Chemical Reduction: Reduce suspect chemicals in cleaning products by 2022
In Process	2018	
Science-Based Carbon Emissions Targets: Commit to a 2.1% annual reduction in carbon emissions, with the goal to achieve a 40% reduction by 2030 and a 50% reduction by 2035
In Process	2019	
Recyclable Packaging: Exclude expanded polystyrene foam (EPS) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film from the packaging of private-brand products we sell, replacing them with easier-to-recycle materials by 2023
In Process	2020	
NEW GOAL for Renewable/Alternative Energy Sources: Produce or procure, on an annual basis, 335 megawatts of renewable or alternative energy by 2025
In Process 
Our Environmental Programs and Initiatives. In order to progress against these goals, we have a large number of environmentally-focused programs and initiatives, including:
•Store Operations and Renewable/Alternative Energy. We have reduced store energy consumption through initiatives such as LED lighting upgrades; installation of energy efficient HVAC systems; participation in demand mitigation; on-site alternative or renewable energy projects such as fuel cells and solar panels; and contracts with off-site wind and solar power providers.
•Product Offerings. Through our Eco Options® program introduced in 2007, we have helped our customers more easily identify products that meet specifications for energy efficiency, water conservation, healthy home, clean air, and sustainable forestry. Beginning in 2019, we added circular economy, which targets the reduction of waste through recycling and reuse. Under our Eco Options program, we sell ENERGY STAR® certified appliances; WaterSense®-labeled bath faucets, showerheads, aerators, toilets, and irrigation controllers; LED light bulbs; tankless water heaters, and many other products. These products, through proper use, help our customers save money on their utility bills and reduce their environmental impact.
•In-Store Recycling Programs. We offer recycling programs in the U.S., including in-store recycling programs for CFL bulbs, rechargeable batteries, and cardboard, and a lead acid battery exchange program.
8
Table of Contents
•Chemical Strategy. We are committed to increasing our assortment of products that meet high environmental standards, and we encourage our suppliers to invest in developing environmentally-innovative products. Each year, we evaluate our Chemical Strategy, first published in 2017, to ensure our approach and goals are appropriate.
•Sustainable Packaging. In addition to our goal related to EPS and PVC, we are continually working with suppliers to find ways to make product packaging more recyclable or simply use less materials, such as the reduction of single-use plastics.
•Supply Chain Optimization. Through our One Supply Chain initiatives, we are working to optimize every load and maximize every mile to make our supply chain more efficient. We also utilize hydrogen fuel cell technology in our forklifts and have started using electric 18-wheelers for deliveries to make our supply chain even more environmentally friendly.
•CDP Participation. We are a long-standing participant in the annual CDP reporting process. CDP is an independent, international, not-for-profit organization providing a global system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage, and share environmental information. In January 2021, we received a score of “A-” from CDP, reflecting leadership and a high level of action on climate change mitigation, adaptation and transparency.
Over the past several years, our commitment to sustainable operations has resulted in a number of environmental awards and recognitions, including EPA Retail Partner of the Year – Sustained Excellence for our overall excellence in energy efficiency; EPA WaterSense® Sustained Excellence Award for our overall excellence in water efficiency; and EPA SmartWay Excellence Award, which recognized us as an industry leader in freight supply chain environmental performance and energy efficiency.
Strengthen our Communities. One of our core values is “Giving Back,” and we support our communities in a number of ways. The Home Depot Foundation focuses on improving the lives of U.S. veterans, assisting communities affected by natural disasters, and training skilled tradespeople to fill the labor gap. Our Team Depot associate volunteers provide hundreds of thousands of volunteer hours each year on a wide variety of projects. We partner with diverse suppliers and organizations to further support our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts. We have also contributed more than $50 million to support community needs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Please see our 2020 Responsibility Report for additional information.
Deliver Shareholder Value
We deliver on our objective to create shareholder value through our disciplined approach to capital allocation. Our first use of cash is to reinvest in our business to drive growth faster than the market. In fiscal 2020, we achieved this growth through our continued investments to create the One Home Depot experience. We also focus on driving productivity throughout the business to lower our costs. The combination of reinvesting in the business to drive higher sales and lowering costs creates what we refer to as a virtuous cycle, which has allowed us to improve the customer experience, increase our competitiveness in the market, and deliver shareholder value.
The use of the remainder of our cash is guided by our shareholder return principles:
•Dividend Principle. We look to increase our dividend every year as we grow earnings.
•Return on Invested Capital Principle. Our goal is to maintain a high return on invested capital, benchmarking all uses of excess liquidity against the value created for our shareholders through share repurchases.
•Share Repurchase Principle. After meeting the needs of the business, we will look to return excess cash to shareholders in the form of share repurchases.
Following these principles, we increased our dividend in February 2020, returning value to shareholders through $6.5 billion in cash dividends, which we maintained throughout the year. We had cash payments of $791 million for share repurchases in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, until we suspended share repurchases in March 2020 to ensure sufficient liquidity to meet the needs of the business during the pandemic. Share repurchases remain part of our strategy for returning value to shareholders, and we resumed our share repurchases in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Our capital allocation is discussed further in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Government Regulation
As a company with both U.S. and international operations, we are subject to the laws of the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among
9
Table of Contents
jurisdictions. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position as compared to prior periods.
Available Information
Our internet website is www.homedepot.com. We make available on the Investor Relations section of our website, free of charge, our Annual Reports to shareholders, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and Forms 3, 4 and 5, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such documents with, or furnishing such documents to, the SEC.
We include our website addresses throughout this report for reference only. The information contained on our websites is not incorporated by reference into this report.
