COMPANY OVERVIEW

References herein to HollyFrontier Corporation (“HollyFrontier”) include HollyFrontier and its consolidated subsidiaries. In accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's (“SEC”) “Plain English” guidelines, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been written in the first person. In this document, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” refer only to HollyFrontier and its consolidated subsidiaries or to HollyFrontier or an individual subsidiary and not to any other person, with certain exceptions. Generally, the words “we,” “our,” “ours” and “us” include Holly Energy Partners, L.P. (“HEP”) and its subsidiaries as consolidated subsidiaries of HollyFrontier, unless when used in disclosures of transactions or obligations between HEP and HollyFrontier or its other subsidiaries. This document contains certain disclosures of agreements that are specific to HEP and its consolidated subsidiaries and do not necessarily represent obligations of HollyFrontier. When used in descriptions of agreements and transactions, “HEP” refers to HEP and its consolidated subsidiaries.

We are principally an independent petroleum refiner that produces high-value light products such as gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, specialty lubricant products, and specialty and modified asphalt. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1947 and maintain our principal corporate offices at 2828 N. Harwood, Suite 1300, Dallas, Texas 75201-1507. Our telephone number is 214-871-3555, and our internet website address is www.hollyfrontier.com. The information contained on our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A print copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K will be provided without charge upon written request to the Vice President, Investor Relations at the above address. A direct link to our SEC filings is available on our website under the Investor Relations tab. Also available on our website are copies of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter, Nominating / Corporate Governance Committee Charter, Environmental, Health, Safety, and Public Policy Committee Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, all of which will be provided without charge upon written request to the Vice President, Investor Relations at the above address. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applies to all of our officers, employees and directors, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “HFC.”

In November 2019, we announced our plans to construct a new renewable diesel unit (“RDU”) at our Artesia facility. The RDU will have a production capacity of approximately 120 million gallons a year and allow us to process soybean oil and other renewable feedstocks into renewable diesel. This investment will provide us the opportunity to meet the demand for low-carbon fuels while covering the cost of our annual RINs purchase obligation under current market conditions.

In the third quarter of 2020, we permanently ceased petroleum refining operations at our Cheyenne Refinery and subsequently began converting certain assets at our Cheyenne Refinery to renewable diesel production. The Cheyenne RDU will have a production capacity of approximately 90 million gallons a year. This decision was primarily based on a positive outlook in the market for renewable diesel and the expectation that future free cash flow generation at our Cheyenne Refinery would be challenged due to lower gross margins resulting from the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and compressed crude differentials due to dislocations in the crude oil market. Additional factors included uncompetitive operating and maintenance costs forecasted for our Cheyenne Refinery and the anticipated loss of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) small refinery exemption.

Additionally, we are constructing a pre-treatment unit (“PTU”) at our Artesia facility that will provide feedstock flexibility for both our Artesia and Cheyenne RDUs. The RDUs and PTU, along with corresponding rail infrastructure and storage tanks, are estimated to have a total capital cost of $650 million to $750 million. The RDUs are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2022 and the PTU in the first half of 2022.

On November 12, 2018, we entered into an equity purchase agreement to acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Sonneborn US Holdings Inc. and 100% of the membership rights in Sonneborn Coöperatief U.A. (collectively, “Sonneborn”). The acquisition closed on February 1, 2019. Cash consideration paid was $662.7 million. Sonneborn is a producer of specialty hydrocarbon chemicals such as white oils, petrolatums and waxes with manufacturing facilities in the United States and Europe.

On July 10, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Red Giant Oil Company LLC (“Red Giant Oil”), a privately-owned lubricants company. The acquisition closed on August 1, 2018. Cash consideration paid was $54.2 million. Red Giant Oil is one of the largest suppliers of locomotive engine oil in North America and is headquartered in Council Bluffs, Iowa.

6
Table of Content
On October 29, 2016, we entered into a share purchase agreement with Suncor Energy Inc. (“Suncor”) to acquire 100% of the outstanding capital stock of Petro-Canada Lubricants Inc. (“PCLI”). The acquisition closed on February 1, 2017. Cash consideration paid was $862.1 million, or $1.125 billion Canadian dollars. PCLI, located in Mississauga, Ontario, is the largest producer of base oils in Canada with a plant having 15,600 BPD of lubricant production capacity and is one of the largest manufacturers of high margin Group III base oils in North America.

As of December 31, 2020, we:
•owned and operated a petroleum refinery in El Dorado, Kansas (the “El Dorado Refinery”), two refinery facilities located in Tulsa, Oklahoma (collectively, the “Tulsa Refineries”), a refinery in Artesia, New Mexico that is operated in conjunction with crude oil distillation and vacuum distillation and other facilities situated 65 miles away in Lovington, New Mexico (collectively, the “Navajo Refinery”) and a refinery in Woods Cross, Utah (the “Woods Cross Refinery”);
•owned a facility in Cheyenne, Wyoming, which operated as a petroleum refinery until early August 2020, at which time its assets began to be converted to renewable diesel production (the “Cheyenne Refinery”);
•owned and operated PCLI located in Mississauga, Ontario, which produces base oils and other specialized lubricant products;
•owned and operated Sonneborn with manufacturing facilities in Petrolia, Pennsylvania and the Netherlands, which produce specialty lubricant products such as white oils, petrolatums and waxes;
•owned and operated Red Giant Oil, which supplies locomotive engine oil and has storage and distribution facilities in Iowa and Wyoming, along with a blending and packaging facility in Texas;
•owned and operated HollyFrontier Asphalt Company LLC (“HFC Asphalt”), which operates various asphalt terminals in Arizona, New Mexico and Oklahoma; and
•owned a 57% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in HEP. HEP owns and operates logistic assets consisting of petroleum product and crude oil pipelines, terminals, tankage, loading rack facilities and refinery processing units that principally support our refining and marketing operations in the Mid-Continent, Southwest and Rocky Mountain geographic regions of the United States.

HEP is a variable interest entity (“VIE”) as defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Information on HEP's assets and acquisitions completed in the past three years can be found under the “Holly Energy Partners, L.P.” section provided later in this discussion of Items 1 and 2, “Business and Properties.”

Our operations are currently organized into three reportable segments, Refining, Lubricants and Specialty Products and HEP. The Refining segment includes the operations of our El Dorado, Tulsa, Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries and HFC Asphalt. The Lubricants and Specialty Products segment includes the operations of our Petro-Canada Lubricants business, Red Giant Oil and Sonneborn in addition to specialty lubricant products produced at our Tulsa Refinery. The HEP segment involves all of the operations of HEP. See Note 20 “Segment Information” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our reportable segments.


REFINERY OPERATIONS

Our refinery operations serve the Mid-Continent, Southwest and Rocky Mountain geographic regions of the United States. We own and operate four complex refineries having a combined crude oil processing capacity of 405,000 barrels per stream day. Each of our refineries has the complexity to convert discounted, heavy and sour crude oils into a high percentage of gasoline, diesel and other high-value refined products.

The tables presented below and elsewhere in this discussion of our refinery operations set forth information, including non-GAAP performance measures, about our refinery operations. The cost of products and refinery gross and net operating margins do not include the non-cash effects of long-lived asset impairment charges, lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments and depreciation and amortization. Reconciliations to amounts reported under GAAP are provided under “Reconciliations to Amounts Reported Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” following Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K.

7
Table of Content
As of December 31, 2020, our refinery operations included the El Dorado, Tulsa, Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries. In the third quarter of 2020, we permanently ceased petroleum refining operations at our Cheyenne Refinery and subsequently began converting certain assets at our Cheyenne Refinery to renewable diesel production. The disaggregation of our refining geographic operating data is presented in two regions, Mid-Continent and West, to best reflect the economic drivers of our refining operations. The Mid-Continent region will continue to be comprised of the El Dorado and Tulsa Refineries, and the new West region will be comprised of the Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries. All prior period geographic operating data included below has been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the revised regional groupings.
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	Consolidated							
Crude charge (BPD) (1)
365,190 			388,860 			384,380 		
Refinery throughput (BPD) (2)
395,080 			417,570 			413,780 		
Sales of produced refined products (BPD) (3)
391,670 			414,370 			408,390 		
Refinery utilization (4)
90.2 	%		96.0 	%		94.9 	% 
Average per produced barrel sold (5)
Refinery gross margin		$	7.29 			$	15.92 			$	16.50 		
Refinery operating expenses (6)
6.05 			6.12 			6.06 		Net operating margin		$	1.24 			$	9.80 			$	10.44 									
Refinery operating expenses per throughput barrel (7)
$	6.00 			$	6.07 			$	5.98 									Feedstocks:							Sweet crude oil		48 	%		45 	%		44 	%	Sour crude oil		29 	%		34 	%		35 	%	Heavy sour crude oil		11 	%		10 	%		10 	%	Black wax crude oil		4 	%		4 	%		4 	%	Other feedstocks and blends		8 	%		7 	%		7 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

(1)Crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at our refineries.
(2)Refinery throughput represents the barrels per day of crude and other refinery feedstocks input to the crude units and other conversion units at our refineries.
(3)Represents barrels sold of refined products produced at our refineries (including HFC Asphalt) and does not include volumes of refined products purchased for resale or volumes of excess crude oil sold.
(4)Represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (BPSD). Our consolidated crude capacity is 405,000 BPSD.
(5)Represents average amount per produced barrel sold, which is a non-GAAP measure. Reconciliations to amounts reported under GAAP are provided under “Reconciliations to Amounts Reported Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles” following Item 7A of Part II of this Form 10-K.
(6)Represents total Mid-Continent and West regions operating expenses, exclusive of long-lived asset impairment charges and depreciation and amortization, divided by sales volumes of refined products produced at our refineries.
(7)Represents total Mid-Continent and West regions operating expenses, exclusive of long-lived asset impairment charges and depreciation and amortization, divided by refinery throughput.

8
Table of Content
Products and Customers
Set forth below is information regarding refined product sales:
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	Consolidated							Sales of refined products:							Gasolines		54 	%		52 	%		52 	%	Diesel fuels		34 	%		34 	%		34 	%	Jet fuels		3 	%		4 	%		4 	%	Fuel oil		1 	%		2 	%		2 	%	Asphalt		4 	%		3 	%		3 	%	Base oils		2 	%		2 	%		3 	%	LPG and other		2 	%		3 	%		2 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

Light products are shipped to customers via product pipelines or are available for loading at our refinery truck facilities and terminals. Light products are also made available to customers at various other locations via exchange with other parties.

Our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers and retailers. Diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers and railroads. Jet fuel is sold for commercial airline use. Base oils are intercompany sales to our Lubricants and Specialty Products segment. LPG's are sold to LPG wholesalers and LPG retailers. We produce and purchase asphalt products that are sold to governmental entities, paving contractors or manufacturers. Asphalt is also blended into fuel oil and is either sold locally or is shipped to the Gulf Coast. See Note 5 “Revenues” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our significant customers.


Mid-Continent Region (El Dorado and Tulsa Refineries)

Facilities
The El Dorado Refinery is a high-complexity coking refinery with a 135,000 barrels per stream day processing capacity and the ability to process significant volumes of heavy and sour crudes. The integrated refining processes at the Tulsa West and East refinery facilities provide us with a highly complex refining operation having a combined crude processing rate of approximately 125,000 barrels per stream day.

The following table sets forth information about our Mid-Continent region operations, including non-GAAP performance measures.
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	Mid-Continent Region (El Dorado and Tulsa Refineries)							
Crude charge (BPD) (1)
241,140 			254,010 			249,240 		
Refinery throughput (BPD) (2)
257,030 			268,500 			264,730 		
Sales of produced refined products (BPD) (3)
248,320 			259,310 			255,800 		
Refinery utilization (4)
92.7 	%		97.7 	%		95.9 	%								
Average per produced barrel sold (5)
Refinery gross margin		$	5.17 			$	13.71 			$	14.44 		
Refinery operating expenses (6)
5.46 			5.77 			5.51 		Net operating margin		$	(0.29)			$	7.94 			$	8.93 									
Refinery operating expenses per throughput barrel (7)
$	5.27 			$	5.58 			$	5.33 	 

Footnote references are provided under our Consolidated Refinery Operating Data table on page 8.

9
Table of Content
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	Mid-Continent Region (El Dorado and Tulsa Refineries)							Feedstocks:							Sweet crude oil		58 	%		55 	%		54 	%	Sour crude oil		19 	%		24 	%		24 	%	Heavy sour crude oil		17 	%		16 	%		16 	%	Other feedstocks and blends		6 	%		5 	%		6 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

The El Dorado Refinery is located on 1,100 acres south of El Dorado, Kansas and is a fully integrated refinery. The principal processing units at the El Dorado Refinery consist of crude and vacuum distillation; hydrodesulfurization of naphtha, kerosene, diesel, and gas oil streams; isomerization; catalytic reforming; aromatics recovery; catalytic cracking; alkylation; delayed coking; hydrogen production; and sulfur recovery.

The Tulsa West facility is located on a 750-acre site in Tulsa, Oklahoma situated along the Arkansas River. The principal processing units at the Tulsa West facility consist of crude and vacuum distillation (with light ends recovery), naphtha hydrodesulfurization, propane de-asphalting, lubes extraction, MEK dewaxing, delayed coker and butane splitter units.

The Tulsa East facility is located on a 466-acre site also in Tulsa, Oklahoma situated along the Arkansas River. The principal processing units at the Tulsa East facility consist of crude and vacuum distillation, naphtha hydrodesulfurization, FCC, isomerization, catalytic reforming, alkylation, scanfiner, diesel hydrodesulfurization and sulfur units.

Markets and Competition
The primary markets for the El Dorado Refinery's refined products are Colorado and the Plains States, which include the Kansas City metropolitan area. The gasoline, diesel and jet fuel produced by the El Dorado Refinery are primarily shipped via pipeline to terminals for distribution by truck or rail. We ship product via the NuStar Pipeline Operating Partnership L.P. Pipeline to the northern Plains States, via the Magellan Pipeline Company, L.P. (“Magellan”) mountain pipeline to Denver, Colorado, and on the Magellan mid-continent pipeline to the Plains States. Additionally, HEP's on-site truck and rail racks facilitate access to local refined product markets.

The El Dorado Refinery faces competition from other Plains States and Mid-Continent refiners, but the principal competitors for the El Dorado Refinery are Gulf Coast refiners. Our Gulf Coast competitors typically have lower production costs due to greater economies of scale; however, they incur higher refined product transportation costs, which allows the El Dorado Refinery to compete effectively in the Plains States and Rocky Mountain region with Gulf Coast refineries.

The Tulsa Refineries serve the Mid-Continent geographic region of the United States. Distillates and gasolines are primarily delivered from the Tulsa Refineries to market via pipelines owned and operated by Magellan. These pipelines connect the refinery to distribution channels throughout Colorado, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska and Arkansas. Additionally, HEP's on-site truck and rail racks facilitate access to local refined product markets.

The Tulsa Refineries’ principal customers for conventional gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers and retailers. Truck stop operators and railroads are the primary diesel customers. Jet fuel is sold primarily for commercial use. The refinery's asphalt and roofing flux products are sold via truck or railcar directly from the refineries or to customers throughout the Mid-Continent geographic region primarily to paving contractors and manufacturers of roofing products.

10
Table of Content
Products
Set forth below is information regarding refined product sales attributable to our Mid-Continent region:
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	Mid-Continent Region (El Dorado and Tulsa Refineries)							Sales of refined products:							Gasolines		52 	%		51 	%		51 	%	Diesel fuels		34 	%		32 	%		33 	%	Jet fuels		4 	%		7 	%		6 	%	Fuel oil		1 	%		1 	%		1 	%	Asphalt		3 	%		3 	%		3 	%	Base oils		4 	%		4 	%		4 	%	LPG and other		2 	%		2 	%		2 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

Crude Oil and Feedstock Supplies
Both of our Mid-Continent Refineries are connected via pipeline to Cushing, Oklahoma, a significant crude oil pipeline trading and storage hub. The El Dorado Refinery and the Tulsa Refineries are located approximately 125 miles and 50 miles, respectively, from Cushing, Oklahoma. Local pipelines provide direct access to regional Oklahoma crude production as well as access to United States onshore and Canadian crudes. The proximity of the refineries to the Cushing pipeline and storage hub provides the flexibility to optimize their crude slate with a wide variety of crude oil supply options. Additionally, we have transportation service agreements to transport Canadian crude oil on the Spearhead and Keystone Pipelines, enabling us to transport Canadian crude oil to Cushing for subsequent shipment to either of our Mid-Continent Refineries.

We also purchase isobutane, natural gasoline, butane and other feedstocks for processing at our Mid-Continent Refineries. The El Dorado Refinery is connected to Conway, Kansas, a major gas liquids trading and storage hub, via the Oneok Pipeline. From time to time, other feedstocks such gas oil, naphtha and light cycle oil are purchased from other refiners for use at our refineries.


West Region (Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries)

Facilities
The Navajo Refinery has a crude oil processing capacity of 100,000 barrels per stream day and has the ability to process sour crude oils into high-value light products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel.

The Woods Cross Refinery has a crude oil processing capacity of 45,000 barrels per stream day and processes regional sweet and black wax crude into high-value light products.

The following table sets forth information about our West region operations, including non-GAAP performance measures.
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	West Region (Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries)							
Crude charge (BPD) (1)
124,050 			134,850 			135,140 		
Refinery throughput (BPD) (2)
138,050 			149,070 			149,050 		
Sales of produced refined products (BPD) (3)
143,350 			155,060 			152,590 		
Refinery utilization (4)
85.6 	%		93.0 	%		93.2 	%								
Average per produced barrel sold (5)
Refinery gross margin		$	10.97 			$	19.62 			$	19.96 		
Refinery operating expenses (6)
7.07 			6.69 			6.99 		Net operating margin		$	3.90 			$	12.93 			$	12.97 									
Refinery operating expenses per throughput barrel (7)
$	7.34 			$	6.96 			$	7.15 	 

Footnote references are provided under our Consolidated Refinery Operating Data table on page 8.

11
Table of Content
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	West Region (Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries)							Feedstocks:							Sweet crude oil		30 	%		26 	%		27 	%	Sour crude oil		49 	%		52 	%		52 	%	Black wax crude oil		11 	%		12 	%		12 	%	Other feedstocks and blends		10 	%		10 	%		9 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

The Navajo Refinery's Artesia, New Mexico facility is located on a 561-acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, vacuum distillation, FCC, ROSE (solvent deasphalter), HF alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, mild hydrocracking, isomerization, sulfur recovery and product blending units.

The Artesia facility is operated in conjunction with a refining facility located in Lovington, New Mexico, approximately 65 miles east of Artesia. The principal equipment at the Lovington facility consists of a crude distillation unit and associated vacuum distillation units. The Lovington facility processes crude oil into intermediate products that are transported to Artesia by means of three intermediate pipelines owned by HEP. These products are then upgraded into finished products at the Artesia facility. The combined crude oil capacity of the Navajo Refinery facilities is 100,000 BPSD and it typically processes or blends an additional 10,000 BPSD of natural gasoline, butane, gas oil and naphtha.

The Woods Cross Refinery facility is located on a 200-acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, solvent deasphalter, FCC, HF alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery and product blending units. The facility typically processes or blends an additional 2,000 BPSD of natural gasoline, butane and gas oil over its 45,000 BPSD capacity.

Markets and Competition
The Navajo Refinery primarily serves the southwestern United States market, including the metropolitan areas of El Paso, Texas; Albuquerque, Moriarty and Bloomfield, New Mexico; Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona; and portions of northern Mexico. Our products are shipped through HEP's pipelines from Artesia, New Mexico to El Paso, Texas and from El Paso to Albuquerque and to Mexico via products pipeline systems owned by Magellan and from El Paso to Tucson and Phoenix via a products pipeline system owned by Kinder Morgan's subsidiary, SFPP, L.P. (“SFPP”). In addition, petroleum products from the Navajo Refinery are transported to markets in northwest New Mexico, to Moriarty, New Mexico, near Albuquerque, via HEP's pipelines running from Artesia to San Juan County, New Mexico, and to Bloomfield, New Mexico. We have refined product storage through our pipelines and terminals agreement with HEP at terminals in Artesia and Moriarty, New Mexico.

The Woods Cross Refinery's primary market is Utah, which is currently supplied by a number of local refiners and the Pioneer Pipeline. It also supplies a small percentage of the refined products consumed in the combined Idaho, Wyoming, eastern Washington and Nevada markets. Our Woods Cross Refinery ships refined products over a common carrier pipeline system owned by Andeavor Logistics Northwest Pipelines LLC to numerous terminals, including HEP's terminal at Spokane, Washington and to third-party terminals at Pocatello and Boise, Idaho and Pasco, Washington as well as to Cedar City, Utah and Las Vegas, Nevada via the UNEV Pipeline.

Products
Set forth below is information regarding refined product sales attributable to our West region:
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	West Region (Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries)							Sales of refined products:							Gasolines		56 	%		53 	%		53 	%	Diesel fuels		35 	%		37 	%		38 	%Fuel oil		3 	%		3 	%		3 	%	Asphalt		4 	%		4 	%		3 	%	LPG and other		2 	%		3 	%		3 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

12
Table of Content
Crude Oil and Feedstock Supplies
The Navajo Refinery is situated near the Permian Basin, an area that has historically, and continues to have, abundant supplies of crude oil available both for regional users and for export to other areas. We purchase crude oil from independent producers in southeastern New Mexico and west Texas as well as from major oil companies. The crude oil is gathered through HEP's pipelines and through third-party tank trucks and crude oil pipeline systems for delivery to the Navajo Refinery.

We also purchase volumes of isobutane, natural gasoline and other feedstocks to supply the Navajo Refinery from sources in Texas and the Mid-Continent area that are delivered to our region on a common carrier pipeline owned by Enterprise Products, L.P. Ultimately all volumes of these products are shipped to the Artesia refining facilities on HEP's intermediate pipelines running from Lovington to Artesia. From time to time, we purchase gas oil, naphtha and light cycle oil from other refiners for use as feedstock.

The Woods Cross Refinery currently obtains crude oil from suppliers in Canada, Wyoming and Utah as delivered via common carrier pipelines, including the SLC Pipeline and Frontier Pipeline owned by HEP. Supplies of black wax crude oil are shipped via truck.


HollyFrontier Asphalt Company

We manufacture commodity and modified asphalt products at our manufacturing facilities located in Glendale, Arizona; Albuquerque, New Mexico; Artesia, New Mexico and Catoosa, Oklahoma. Our Albuquerque and Artesia facilities manufacture modified hot asphalt products and commodity and modified asphalt emulsions from base asphalt materials provided by our refineries and third-party suppliers. Our Glendale facility manufactures modified hot asphalt products from base asphalt materials provided by our refineries and third-party suppliers. Our Catoosa facility manufactures specialty modified asphalt and commodity asphalt products. We market these asphalt products in Arizona, California, Colorado, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Kansas, Missouri, Texas, Arkansas and northern Mexico. Our products are shipped via third-party trucking companies to commercial customers that provide asphalt based materials for commercial and government projects.


LUBRICANTS AND SPECIALTY PRODUCTS OPERATIONS

Our lubricants and specialty products operations consist of our Petro-Canada Lubricants, Red Giant Oil, Sonneborn and the Tulsa rack forward businesses.

Our Petro-Canada Lubricants business produces automotive, industrial and food grade lubricants and greases, base and process oils and specialty fluids. It is one of the largest manufacturers of high margin Group III base oils in North America. Products are marketed in over 80 countries worldwide to a diverse customer base through a global sales force and distributor network.

Our Red Giant Oil business provides high quality lubricants to the railroad industry, which represents a market of a small number of high-value customers who associate the Red Giant Oil name with a niche suite of products.

Sonneborn is a producer of specialty hydrocarbon chemicals such as white oils, petrolatums and waxes for the personal care, cosmetic, pharmaceutical and food processing industries. Combined with Petro-Canada Lubricants, it is one of the world's largest producers of pharmaceutical white oils.

Our Tulsa Refinery produces high quality base oils, process oils, waxes, horticultural oils and asphalt performance products. Products are marketed worldwide through strategically located terminals in the United States and selected distributors internationally.

The following table sets forth information about our lubricants and specialty products operations and includes Red Giant Oil for the period August 1, 2018 (date of acquisition) through December 31, 2020, and Sonneborn for the period February 1, 2019 (date of acquisition) through December 31, 2020.
13
Table of Content
Years Ended December 31,			2020		2019		2018	Lubricants and Specialty Products							Throughput (BPD)		19,645 			20,251 			19,590 	Sales of produced refined products (BPD)		32,902 			34,827 			30,510 									Sales of produced refined products:							Finished products		49 	%		49 	%		48 	%	Base oils		26 	%		27 	%		31 	%	Other		25 	%		24 	%		21 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

PCLI owns and operates a production facility located in Mississauga, Ontario having lubricant production capacity of 15,600 BPD and has the flexibility to match unique lubricant product formulations. The primary operating units are high-pressure hydrotreating and hydrofinishing, solvent dewaxing and catalytic dewaxing. In addition, the facility operates a hydrogen plant, naphtha hydrotreater and catalytic reformer, along with other utility units to support production. The Mississauga plant also includes packaging facilities and has extensive distribution capabilities with marine, truck and rail access.

Red Giant Oil, headquartered in Council Bluffs, Iowa, owns and operates blending and distribution facilities in Council Bluffs, Iowa; Joshua, TX and Newcastle, Wyoming.

Sonneborn has manufacturing facilities in Petrolia, Pennsylvania and the Netherlands. The Sonneborn Petrolia site has a production capacity of 6,000 BPD with flexibility to produce a full range of finished specialty products. The primary operating unit is a high-pressure hydrotreater with hydrofinishing. In addition, the facility operates a hydrogen plant along with other utility units to support production. The Petrolia plant also includes packaging facilities with distribution capabilities through rail and trucking. The Sonneborn Netherlands sites include processing facilities in Amsterdam and Koog with a production capacity of approximately 1,500 BPD. The primary operating units include base oil acid treating, percolation filtration, and bleaching & steaming operations. The Netherlands sites include packaging facilities with distribution capabilities through truck and marine.


HOLLY ENERGY PARTNERS, L.P.

HEP is a Delaware limited partnership that trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading symbol “HEP.” HEP owns and operates logistic assets consisting of petroleum product and crude oil pipelines, terminals, tankage, loading rack facilities and refinery processing units that principally support our refining and marketing operations, as well as other third-party refineries, in the Mid-Continent, Southwest and Rocky Mountain geographic regions of the United States. Additionally, HEP owns a 75% interest in UNEV Pipeline, LLC (“UNEV”), the owner of a pipeline running from Woods Cross, Utah to Las Vegas, Nevada (the “UNEV Pipeline”) and associated product terminals, and a 50% ownership interest in each of Osage Pipe Line Company, LLC, the owner of a pipeline running from Cushing, Oklahoma to El Dorado, Kansas (the “Osage Pipeline”), Cheyenne Pipeline, LLC, the owner of a pipeline running from Fort Laramie, Wyoming to Cheyenne, Wyoming (the “Cheyenne Pipeline”) and Cushing Connect Pipeline & Terminal LLC (“Cushing Connect”), the owner of a crude oil storage terminal in Cushing, Oklahoma and a pipeline under construction that will run from Cushing, Oklahoma to our Tulsa Refineries.

HEP generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, by charging fees for terminalling and storing refined products and other hydrocarbons and providing other services at its storage tanks, terminals and refinery processing units. HEP does not take ownership of products that it transports, terminals, stores or refines; therefore, it is not directly exposed to changes in commodity prices.

14
Table of Content
Investment in Joint Venture

Cushing Connect Joint Venture
In October 2019, HEP Cushing LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HEP, and Plains Marketing, L.P., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Plains All American Pipeline, L.P. (“Plains”), formed a 50/50 joint venture, Cushing Connect, for (i) the development, construction, ownership and operation of a new 160,000 barrel per day common carrier crude oil pipeline (the “Cushing Connect Pipeline”) that will connect the Cushing, Oklahoma crude oil hub to our Tulsa Refineries and (ii) the ownership and operation of 1.5 million barrels of crude oil storage in Cushing, Oklahoma (the “Cushing Connect Terminal”). The Cushing Connect Terminal was fully in service beginning in April 2020, and the Cushing Connect Pipeline is expected to be placed in service during the second quarter of 2021. Long-term commercial agreements have been entered into to support the Cushing Connect assets.

Cushing Connect will contract with an affiliate of HEP to manage the construction and operation of the Cushing Connect Pipeline and with an affiliate of Plains to manage the operation of the Cushing Connect Terminal. The total investment in Cushing Connect will be shared proportionately among the partners, and HEP estimates its share of the cost of the Cushing Connect Terminal contributed by Plains and Cushing Connect Pipeline construction costs are approximately $65.0 million. However, any Cushing Connect Pipeline construction costs exceeding 10% of the budget are borne solely by HEP.

Transportation Agreements

Agreements with HEP
HEP serves our refineries under long-term pipeline, terminal and tankage throughput agreements and refinery processing tolling agreements expiring from 2021 through 2036. Under these agreements, we pay HEP fees to transport, store and process throughput volumes of refined products, crude oil and feedstocks on HEP's pipelines, terminals, tankage, loading rack facilities and refinery processing units that result in minimum annual payments to HEP, including UNEV (a consolidated subsidiary of HEP). Under these agreements, the agreed upon tariff rates are subject to annual tariff rate adjustments on July 1 at a rate based upon the percentage change in Producer Price Index (“PPI”) or Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) index. As of December 31, 2020, these agreements required minimum annualized payments to HEP of $351.1 million. However, as previously disclosed, subsequent to year end these agreements were modified to account for the conversion of our Cheyenne Refinery to renewable diesel production, and as of January 1, 2021, require minimum annualized payments to HEP of $341.9 million.

Our transactions with HEP including the transactions discussed above and fees paid under our transportation agreements with HEP and UNEV are eliminated and have no impact on our consolidated financial statements.

As of December 31, 2020, HEP's assets included:

Pipelines
•approximately 800 miles of refined product pipelines, including 340 miles of leased pipelines, that transport gasoline, diesel and jet fuel principally from our Navajo Refinery in New Mexico to our customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado, Utah and northern Mexico;
•approximately 510 miles of refined product pipelines that transport refined products from Delek's Big Spring refinery in Texas to its customers in Texas and Oklahoma;
•two 65-mile pipelines that transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from our Navajo Refinery crude oil distillation and vacuum facilities in Lovington, New Mexico to our petroleum refinery facilities in Artesia, New Mexico;
•one 65-mile intermediate pipeline that is used for the shipment of crude oil from the gathering systems in Barnsdall and Beeson, New Mexico to our Navajo Refinery;
•the SLC Pipeline, a 95-mile intrastate crude oil pipeline system that transports crude oil into the Salt Lake City, Utah area from the Utah terminus of the Frontier Pipeline, as well as crude oil flowing from Wyoming and Utah via Plains Rocky Mountain Pipeline;
•the Frontier Pipeline, a 289-mile crude oil pipeline running from Casper, Wyoming to Frontier Station, Utah through a connection to the SLC Pipeline;
•approximately 940 miles of crude oil trunk, gathering and connection pipelines located in west Texas, New Mexico and Oklahoma that primarily deliver crude oil to our Navajo Refinery;
•approximately 8 miles of refined product pipelines that support our Woods Cross Refinery located near Salt Lake City, Utah;
•gasoline and diesel connecting pipelines that support our Tulsa East facility;
•five intermediate product and gas pipelines between our Tulsa East and Tulsa West facilities;
15
Table of Content
•crude receiving assets located at our Cheyenne facility;
•a 75% interest in the UNEV Pipeline, a 427-mile, 12-inch refined products pipeline running from Woods Cross, Utah to Las Vegas, Nevada;
•a 50% interest in the Osage Pipeline, a 135-mile pipeline that transports crude oil from Cushing, Oklahoma to our El Dorado Refinery and also has a connection to the Jayhawk pipeline that services the CHS refinery in McPherson, Kansas;
•a 50% interest in the Cheyenne Pipeline, an 87-mile crude oil pipeline running from Fort Laramie, Wyoming to Cheyenne, Wyoming; and
•a 50% interest in Cushing Connect, a joint venture formed to construct a 160,000 BPD pipeline to connect the Cushing, Oklahoma crude oil hub to our Tulsa Refineries.

Refined Product Terminals and Refinery Tankage
•three refined product terminals located in Orla, Texas and Moriarty and Bloomfield, New Mexico, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 458,000 barrels, that are integrated with HEP's refined product pipeline system that serves our Navajo Refinery;
•one refined product terminal located in Spokane, Washington, with a capacity of approximately 420,000 barrels, that serves third-party common carrier pipelines;
•one refined product terminal near Mountain Home, Idaho, with a capacity of 120,000 barrels, that serves a nearby United States Air Force Base;
•two refined product terminals, located in Wichita Falls and Abilene, Texas, and one tank farm in Orla, Texas with aggregate capacity of approximately 600,000 barrels, that are integrated with HEP's refined product pipelines that serve Delek's Big Spring, Texas refinery;
•a refined product terminal in Catoosa, Oklahoma that stores specialty lubricant products and is utilized by our Tulsa Refineries;
•a refined product loading rack facility at each of our El Dorado, Tulsa, Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries and our Cheyenne facility, heavy product / asphalt loading rack facilities at our Tulsa East facility, Navajo Refinery Lovington facility and Cheyenne facility, LPG loading rack facilities at our El Dorado Refinery, Tulsa West facility and Cheyenne facility, lube oil loading racks at our Tulsa West facility and crude oil Leased Automatic Custody Transfer units located at our Cheyenne facility;
•on-site crude oil tankage at our Tulsa, Navajo and Woods Cross Refineries and Cheyenne facility having an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 1,530,000 barrels;
•on-site refined and intermediate product tankage at our El Dorado and Tulsa and Refineries and Cheyenne facility having an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 8,600,000 barrels;
•eleven crude oil tanks adjacent to our El Dorado Refinery with a capacity of approximately 1,100,000 barrels that primarily serve our El Dorado Refinery;
•crude oil tankage with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 480,000 barrels that primarily serve our Navajo Refinery;
•Frontier Pipeline's tankage with an aggregate capacity of approximately 380,000 barrels;
•a 75% interest in UNEV Pipeline's product terminals near Cedar City, Utah and Las Vegas, Nevada with an aggregate capacity of approximately 660,000 barrels; and
•a 50% interest in Cushing Connect's crude oil tankage with a capacity of approximately 1,500,000 barrels in Cushing, Oklahoma.

Refinery Processing Units
•a naphtha fractionation tower at our El Dorado Refinery, with a capacity of 50,000 BPD of desulfurized naphtha;
•a hydrogen generation unit at our El Dorado Refinery, with a capacity of 6.1 million standard cubic feet per day of natural gas.
•a crude unit, which is primarily an atmospheric distillation tower, a desalter and heat exchangers, at our Woods Cross Refinery, with a feedstock capacity of 15,000 BPD of crude oil;
•a FCC unit at our Woods Cross Refinery, which converts crude oil to high-value refined products such as gasoline, diesel and liquefied petroleum gases, with a capacity of 8,000 BPD; and
•a polymerization unit at our Woods Cross Refinery, that uses the output of the fluid cracking unit and converts them into gasoline blendstock, with a capacity of 2,500 BPD.
16
Table of Content
ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS AND OTHER INFORMATION

Corporate Offices
Our principal corporate offices are leased and located in Dallas, Texas. Functions performed in our Dallas office include overall corporate management, refinery and HEP management, planning and strategy, corporate finance, crude acquisition, logistics, contract administration, marketing, investor relations, governmental affairs, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, legal and human resources support functions.

Human Capital
Our People
Our people differentiate us from our peers. Our “One HFC Culture” focuses on four key values – safety, integrity, teamwork and ownership. These values influence our decisions, shape our behaviors and provide the opportunity for our employees to thrive. Safety is our first priority. We care about our people and have implemented policies and procedures designed to help make sure they return home safely every day. We focus on integrity and doing the right thing. We champion a culture of teamwork and ownership by supporting each other and empowering employees to take action where they see a need or opportunity.

As of December 31, 2020, we had 3,891 employees located in the following geographies: 2,933 employees in the United States, 711 employees in Canada and 247 employees in Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2020, 1,306 employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates ranging between 2021 and 2024. We have experienced no material interruptions of operations due to disputes with our employees and management attempts to have and believes that we have positive working relationships with our local unions and their members.

Oversight
Our Board of Directors and Board committees provide oversight on our strategies and policies related to human capital management. Our Compensation Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing HollyFrontier’s strategies and policies regarding the promotion of employee diversity, equity and inclusion, talent and performance management, pay equity and employee engagement, as well as our executive succession planning. Our Nominating, Governance and Social Responsibility Committee oversees our policies and practices regarding human rights in our operations and supply chain. This high level oversight is designed to ensure that our actions are well aligned with our strategies in attracting, retaining and developing a workforce that aligns with our values and strategies.

Diversity & Inclusion
Our leadership is committed to attracting, retaining and developing a highly engaged, high-performing, diverse workforce and cultivating an inclusive workplace where all employees feel valued and have a sense of belonging. Increasing our diversity and inclusion efforts is an organizational priority and strategic oversight of our efforts is provided by our Compensation Committee. We have introduced diversity awareness programs focused on increasing the number of underrepresented persons in engineering roles in our refineries and corporate office. Our university recruiting team has partnered with historically Black colleges and universities to offer full-time and summer internship opportunities and various diversity and inclusion organizations at universities to sponsor and participate in events, such as the North Texas Women’s Energy Network and the National Society of Black Engineers Convention. In addition, to help foster a culture of inclusion, we have two employee resource groups focused on strengthening our support of women and veterans in the workplace.

Health & Safety
The safety of our employees, contractors and communities is an overarching priority and fundamental to our operational success. We are grounded by our “Goal Zero” vision, which reflects our belief that safe production can be achieved each and every day. Our commitment to safety is embedded throughout our organization, from frontline employees and contractors to our executive leadership and board of directors. Our Operational Excellence Management System provides the framework through which we identify, monitor and reduce risks. Our Environment, Health and Safety (“EHS”) Leadership Council, comprised of company executives, including our CEO, business unit leaders and corporate safety specialists, sets EHS strategy and reviews performance. The Environmental, Health, Safety and Public Policy Committee of our Board of Directors provides board-level oversight of our strategies and performance in these areas.

To achieve Goal Zero, our employee and contractor safety education and training programs are conducted on an ongoing basis. We set specific goals for workplace safety and measure attainment of those goals. Over the past five years ended December 31, 2020, our OSHA total recordable incident rate (“TRIR”) declined by 35 percent. In response to the coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic, and with the health and safety of our employees as a top priority, we have temporarily modified our business practices by limiting employee and contractor presence at our facilities to essential operating personnel, using a work from home policy, restricting travel, and quarantining employees when necessary.
17
Table of Content

Total Rewards & Development
We believe that the health of our company is linked to the performance and health of our people. We want to inspire and empower our employees to feel confident in their long-term well-being and are committed to offering a comprehensive and competitive total rewards programs for our employees, as benchmarked against our peers. While our benefit offerings vary depending on each country’s market practices, they are designed to support employee health, financial and emotional needs. Our benefits include comprehensive coverage for health care, a competitive retirement savings benefit, vacation and holiday time and other income protection and work life benefits. We also provide tools to help recognize and reward employee performance consistent with our One HFC Culture.

Consistent with our culture of ownership and growth, we offer training, development and engagement programs across every level of our organization to provide employees the opportunity to develop their career by enhancing skills and capabilities consistent with the needs of the business. In 2019, we launched HFC LEAD. “LEAD” stands for Leadership, Excellence and Development and is comprised of a number of programs focused on developing current and future leaders, including the Future HFC Leader Development, Front Line Leader, and Leading the HFC Way programs. We invested $6.0 million in our employee training and development programs in fiscal 2020.

Governmental Regulation
We are subject to numerous international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations regulating worker health and safety, the discharge of substances into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment and natural resources. Permits or other authorizations are required under these laws and regulations for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related facilities, which can result in the imposition of costly reporting, installation of pollution control equipment and maintenance obligations. Moreover, these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal, as well as challenges from third parties.

Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of sanctions, including administrative, civil and criminal penalties; the imposition of investigatory, remedial or corrective action obligations or the incurrence of capital expenditures; the occurrence of delays in the permitting, development or expansion of projects; the issuance of injunctive relief limiting or prohibiting certain operations; and reputational harm. In addition, many environmental laws provide a mechanism for citizens to file suit against regulated facilities for alleged environmental violations. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits or other authorizations will continue to have an impact on our operations, the results of our operations and our capital expenditures.

Rate Regulation - Some of HEP’s existing pipelines are considered interstate common carrier pipelines subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) under the Interstate Commerce Act (the “ICA”). The ICA requires that tariff rates for oil pipelines, a category that includes crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. The ICA permits interested persons to challenge newly proposed or changed rates and authorizes FERC to suspend the effectiveness of such rates for a period of up to seven months and to investigate such rates. If, upon completion of an investigation, FERC finds that the new or changed rate is unlawful, it is authorized to require the carrier to refund the revenues in excess of the prior tariff collected during the pendency of the investigation. FERC also may investigate, upon complaint or on its own motion, rates that are already in effect and may order a carrier to change its rates prospectively. Upon an appropriate showing, a shipper may obtain reparations for damages sustained during the two years prior to the filing of a complaint.

The Energy Policy Act of 1992 deemed petroleum products pipeline tariff rates that were (i) in effect for the 365-day period ending on the date of enactment or (ii) in effect on the 365th day preceding enactment and had not been subject to complaint, protest or investigation during the 365-day period, in each case, to be just and reasonable or “grandfathered” under the ICA. The Energy Policy Act also limited the circumstances under which a complaint can be made against such grandfathered rates. Petroleum products pipelines may change their rates within prescribed ceiling levels that are tied to an inflation index. Shippers may protest rate increases made within the ceiling levels, but such protests must show that the portion of the rate increase resulting from application of the index is substantially in excess of the pipeline’s increase in costs from the previous year. A pipeline must, as a general rule, utilize the indexing methodology to change its rates. Cost-of-service ratemaking, market-based rates and settlement rates are alternatives to the indexing approach and may be used in certain specified circumstances to change rates.

18
Table of Content
Clean Air Act - Our operations are subject to certain requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act (“CAA”) as well as related state and local laws and regulations. Certain CAA regulatory programs applicable to our facilities require capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices, operational procedures to minimize emissions, and monitoring and reporting of emissions. Additionally, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) has the authority under the CAA to modify the formulation of the refined transportation fuel products we manufacture in order to limit the emissions associated with their final use. Also, the EPA has reduced several National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”), and implementation of such revised NAAQS could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or the inability to obtain such permits, and increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. Moreover, in February 2016, a new EPA rule became effective that requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line beginning in January 2018 and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the EPA on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure release devices, and analysis and remedy of flare release events; compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units; and requirements related to air emissions resulting from startup, shutdown and maintenance events. These new rules, as well as subsequent rulemaking under the CAA or similar laws, or new agency interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years and result in increased costs on our operations.

Fuel Quality Regulation - We are subject to the EPA’s Control of Hazardous Air Pollutants from Mobile Sources (also known as the Mobile Source Air Toxics rule, or “MSAT2”) regulations that impose reductions in the benzene content of our produced gasoline. In addition to reducing benzene concentration in our gasoline, our refineries currently purchase benzene credits to meet these requirements. If economically justified or otherwise determined to be beneficial, we may implement additional benzene reduction projects to eliminate or reduce the need to purchase benzene credits.

Pursuant to the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (“EISA”), and the EPA’s corresponding Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS”) regulations, most refiners are required to blend increasing amounts of biofuels with refined products through 2022 or purchase Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”) in lieu of blending. Under the RFS, the percentage of renewable fuels that refineries are obligated to blend into their finished petroleum products is adjusted annually. In November 2018, the EPA finalized the RFS targets for 2019, which maintained the volume required for conventional (i.e., corn ethanol) renewable fuel, increased the volume required for advanced biofuels, and increased the volume required for cellulosic biofuel compared to the 2018 RFS requirements. The EPA also increased the biomass-based diesel volume for 2020 compared to 2019. The EPA has not yet finalized the 2021 RFS requirements for any fuel other than biodiesel, creating some uncertainty regarding our compliance obligations for 2021. Because the EISA requires specified volumes of biofuels, if the demand for motor fuels decreases in future years, even higher percentages of biofuels may be required.

The EPA has historically used its waiver authority to establish volumes lower than the statutory volumes required by EISA, but the EPA’s interpretation of its waiver authority, as well as its implementation of the RFS, has been subject to numerous court challenges. Lawsuits have been filed by the renewable fuel industry challenging the EPA's grant of small refinery exemptions. For additional information regarding risks relating to our small refinery exemptions, see Item 1A, “Risk Factors - The availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.” Legal challenges of the EPA's decision are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcome of these matters or whether they may result in increased RFS compliance costs. There also continues to be a shortage of advanced biofuel production resulting in increased difficulties meeting RFS mandates. As a result, we may be unable to blend sufficient quantities of renewable fuel to meet our requirements and, therefore, may have to purchase an increasing number of RINs. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty what those volumes or costs may be, but given the potential increase in volumes and the volatile price of RINs, increases in renewable volume requirements could have an adverse impact on our results of operations.

Finally, while there is no current regulatory standard that authenticates RINs that may be purchased on the open market from third parties, we believe that the RINs we purchase are from reputable sources, are valid and serve to demonstrate compliance with applicable RFS requirements. However, if any of the RINs purchased by us on the open market are subsequently found by the EPA to be invalid, we could incur significant costs, penalties, or other liabilities in connection with replacing any invalid RINs and resolving any enforcement action brought by the EPA.

In April 2014, the EPA promulgated the Tier 3 Motor Vehicle Emission and Fuel Standards, which requires a reduction in annual average gasoline sulfur content from 30 ppm to 10 ppm. These requirements, other CAA requirements, and other presently existing or future environmental regulations may cause us to make substantial capital expenditures and purchase sulfur credits at significant cost to enable our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements.

19
Table of Content
Climate Change - In recent years, various legislative and regulatory measures to address climate change and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) have been discussed or implemented. They include proposed and enacted federal regulation and state actions to develop statewide, regional or nationwide programs designed to control and reduce GHG emissions from fixed sources, such as our refineries, as well as power plants, mobile transportation sources and fuels. Measures to date have included but are not limited to cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, vehicle efficiency standards, electric vehicle mandates, combustion engine phaseouts and low carbon fuel standards. Although it is not possible to predict the requirements of any GHG legislation that may be enacted, any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce GHG emissions will likely require us to incur increased operating and capital costs. In August 2015, the EPA finalized the “Clean Power Plan” requiring states to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants that will likely result in a combination of plant closures, switching to renewable energy and natural gas, and demand reduction. However, in July 2019, the EPA issued a replacement rule titled the Affordable Clean Energy (“ACE”) Rule, which replaced the Clean Power Plan and is focused solely on electric generating units. However, in January 2021, the D.C. Circuit vacated the ACE rule, and the Biden Administration may consider reimplementing the Clean Power Plan or a similar rule. Neither the Clean Power Plan nor the Affordable Clean Energy Rule would directly affect our operations. To the extent the EPA fully implements a rule that imposes higher costs on electricity generating units it could result in increased power costs for our refineries in future years.

EPA rules require us to report GHG emissions from our refinery operations and consumer use of fuel products produced at our refineries on an annual basis. While the cost of compliance with the reporting rule is not material, data gathered under the rule may be used in the future to support additional regulation of GHG. Moreover, the EPA directly regulates GHG emissions from refineries and other major sources through the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (“PSD”) and Federal Operating Permit programs and may require Best Available Control Technology (“BACT”) for GHG emissions above a certain threshold if emissions of other pollutants would otherwise require PSD permitting. While this does not impose any limits or controls on GHG emissions from current operations, future projects or operational changes that increase GHG emissions, such as capacity increases, may be subject to emission limits or technological requirements pertaining to GHG emissions, such as BACT.

Severe limitations on GHG emissions could also adversely affect demand for the gasoline that we produce. Recently, activists concerned about the potential effects of climate change have directed their attention at sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in oil and natural gas activities. There is also a risk that financial institutions will be required to adopt policies that have the effect of reducing the funding provided to the fossil fuel sector. Recently, the Federal Reserve announced that it has joined the Network for Greening the Financial System, a consortium of financial regulators focused on addressing climate-related risks in the financial sector. Ultimately, this could make it more difficult to secure funding for exploration and production activities and result in decreased production of oil, which indirectly could have an adverse impact on our operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other extreme weather events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our operations.

The incoming administration is proposing an “all of government” approach to climate change in which the federal government would use not only its regulatory and enforcement authority but also its policy and purchasing power to encourage investment and use of renewable energy sources and to otherwise impede and reduce fossil fuel use. This approach may include elements that could directly or indirectly result in decreased demand for transportation fuel and could have an adverse impact on our operations. For example, on January 27, 2021, President Biden issued an executive order that commits to substantial action on climate change, calling for, among other things, the increased use of zero-emissions vehicles by the federal government, the elimination of subsidies provided to the fossil fuel industry, and increased emphasis on climate-related risks across governmental agencies and economic sectors.

Water Discharges - Our operations are also subject to the Federal Clean Water Act (“CWA”), the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”) and comparable state and local requirements. The CWA, the SDWA and analogous laws prohibit any discharge into surface waters, ground waters, injection wells and publicly-owned treatment works except in conformance with legal authorization, such as pre-treatment permits and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permits, issued by federal, state and local governmental agencies. The EPA commenced a study from 2015-2017 related to the discharges of metals and dioxin from petroleum refining operations and wastewater discharges from refineries in connection with the consideration of new effluent limitation guidelines that would be incorporated into refinery sector NPDES permits. To date, the EPA has not proposed any new effluent limitation guidelines applicable to our operations, but future rulemakings related to this issue could require us to incur increased costs related to the treatment of wastewater resulting from our operations.

20
Table of Content
The CWA also regulates filling or discharges to wetlands and other “waters of the United States.” On January 23, 2020, the EPA, in conjunction with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (the “Corps”), issued a final rule regarding the definition of “waters of the United States,” which narrowed the regulatory reach of the CWA regulations relative to a prior 2015 rulemaking. The final rule became effective June 22, 2020. Because the rule does not expand the scope of the CWA’s jurisdiction, it will not likely adversely impact our operations; however, the final rule is subject to litigation, and multiple challenges to the EPA's prior rulemakings remains pending, both of which create uncertainty. Additionally, the new administration may seek to revise or withdraw the final rule, creating further uncertainty.

Hazardous Substances and Wastes - We generate wastes that may be subject to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and comparable state and local requirements. The EPA and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. Although the EPA is currently working on several rulemakings that could impact how our refineries manage various waste streams, it does not appear that these rules will significantly impact our refineries.

The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), also known as “Superfund,” imposes strict, and under certain circumstances, joint and several liability on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the cost of cleaning up hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources. These persons include current and former owners or operators of property where a release has occurred, and any persons who disposed of, or arranged for the transport or disposal of, hazardous substances at the property. In the course of our historical operations, as well as in our current operations, we have generated waste, some of which falls within the statutory definition of a “hazardous substance” and some of which may have been disposed of at sites that may be subject to cleanup and cost recovery actions under CERCLA in the future. Similarly, locations now owned or operated by us, where third parties have disposed such hazardous substances in the past, may also be subject to cleanup and cost recovery actions under CERCLA. Some states have enacted laws similar to CERCLA which impose similar responsibilities and liabilities on responsible parties. It is also not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims under state law for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment.

Oil Pollution Act - The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) and regulations thereunder generally subject owners and operators of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs, natural resource damages, and potential governmental oversight costs arising from oil spills into the waters of the U.S. The OPA also imposes ongoing requirements on a responsible party, including the preparation of oil spill response plans and proof of financial responsibility to cover environmental cleanup and restoration costs that could be incurred in connection with an oil spill.

Other Environmental Regulations - Our Canadian assets and operations are also required to comply with various Canadian federal, provincial and municipal regulations. The regulations are in many cases conceptually similar to those described above for our U.S. operations. The principal legislation affecting our Canadian operations is the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, the Fisheries Act, the Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act and their regulations at a federal level and various provincial statutes and regulations such as the Ontario Environmental Protection Act, the Ontario Occupational Health and Safety Act and the Ontario Water Resources Act. All these laws contain broad prohibitions against causing harm to air, land, water, people or any other living organism and in many cases contain detailed prescriptive rules governing many aspects of our operations. Regulatory trends towards more stringent emission requirements and operating controls are expected to continue at federal, provincial and local levels.

21
Table of Content
Additionally, our assets and operations in the Netherlands are required to comply with Dutch regulations that are similar to, and in some cases more stringent than, those described above for our U.S. operations. The statutes to which our Dutch assets and operations are subject include the Environmental Protection Act, the Activities Decree, the Environmental Licensing (General Provisions) Act, the Water Act, the Soil Protection Act, the Major Accidents (Risks) Decree, the European Birds and Habitats Directive, the Economic Offences Act and other subordinate decrees and regulations relative to environmental control, permitting and enforcement. However, a large legislative operation is being developed that should lead to the integration of all environmental laws in one, being the Environment and Planning Act, which is expected to enter into force in January 2022. Generally, these regulations create a system of environmental permits covering the most significant emissions to water, air and soil, as well as other environmental impacts. The Netherlands also participates in certain broader European legal initiatives, including GHG cap and trade programs. Additionally, in December 2019, the High Council of the Netherlands upheld a court order for the government of the Netherlands to reduce the country's GHG emissions by 25% (compared to 1990) by 2020, and in January 2020,the Climate Act came into force, with the goal of significantly reducing GHG emissions by 49% (compared to 1990) by 2030 and by at least 95% (compared to 1990) by 2050. Furthermore, the target is that 100% of the electricity production will be CO2 neutral in 2050. The Climate Act also establishes that the government must prepare a Climate Plan. The first Climate Plan covers the period between 2021 and 2030 and includes measures in view of a reduction of 49% of GHG emissions in 2030. It is unclear what further measures the Dutch government will take to reduce GHG emissions pursuant to this law.

Enforcement and Litigation Proceedings - As is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. These matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, GHG emissions, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances that we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. We currently have environmental remediation projects that relate to recovery, treatment and monitoring activities resulting from past releases of refined product and crude oil into the environment. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accrual of $115.0 million related to such environmental liabilities.

We are and have been the subject of various local, state, provincial, federal and private proceedings and inquiries relating to compliance with environmental laws and regulations and conditions, including those discussed above. Compliance with current and future environmental regulations is expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant. To the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued, if applicable.

Occupational Health and Safety - Our operations are subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”), comparable state statutes, Canadian regulations applicable to our operations in Canada and Dutch regulations, including the Health and Safety Act, applicable to our operations in the Netherlands. We maintain a comprehensive safety program, including mechanical integrity and safety-related maintenance programs and training, to ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations to protect the safety of our workers and the public. Some of our operations are also subject to OSHA Process Safety Management (“PSM”) regulations and EPA Risk Management Plan (“RMP”) regulations, both of which are designed to prevent or minimize chemical accidents and any resulting releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. In January 2017, the EPA revised the RMP requirements for incident investigation and accident history reporting, emergency preparedness, and the performance of process hazard analyses and third party compliance audits. Many of the revised requirements do not become effective until 2021, and the EPA issued a final rule in December 2019 that rescinded several of the requirements of the 2017 rule. The new administration may consider reissuing some of the rescinded requirements or making other changes. Also in January 2017, OSHA announced changes to its National Emphasis Program, which specifically identified oil refineries as facilities for increased inspections and instructed inspectors to use data gathered from EPA RMP inspections to identify refiners for additional PSM inspections. Compliance with applicable state and federal occupational health and safety laws and regulations, as well as environmental regulations, has required, and continues to require, substantial expenditures.

Occupational health and environmental legislation, regulations and regulatory programs change frequently. We cannot predict what additional occupational health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing laws or regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on our financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess.

22
Table of Content
Insurance
Our operations are subject to hazards of operations, including fire, explosion and weather-related perils. We maintain various insurance coverages, including business interruption insurance, subject to certain deductibles. We are not fully insured against certain risks because such risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable, or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures.

We have a risk management oversight committee consisting of members from our senior management. This committee oversees our risk enterprise program, monitors our risk environment and provides direction for activities to mitigate identified risks that may adversely affect the achievement of our goals.
