General Henry Schein, Inc. is a solutions company for health care professionals powered by a network of people andtechnology. We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care. Our philosophy is grounded in ourcommitment to help customers operate a more efficient and successful business so the practitioner can providebetter clinical care. With more than 88 years of experience distributing health care products, we have built a vast set of small, mid-sizedand large customers in the dental and medical markets, serving more than one million customers worldwide acrossdental practices and laboratories and physician practices, as well as government, institutional health care clinics andother alternate care clinics.  We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 19,000 people (of which approximately 9,800 arebased outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 31 countries and territories, including theUnited States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany,Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, NewZealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emiratesand the United Kingdom. This broad global footprint has evolved over time through our organic success as well asthrough contribution from strategic acquisitions. Our business extends far beyond our supply chain capabilities across the globe. We provide a wide breadthof products, value-added solutions and support to customers, including consumables and equipment. ThroughHenry Schein One, we offer dental practice management, patient engagement and demand creation softwaresolutions. We also offer a broad range of financial services for our customers to help them operate and expand theirbusiness operations. We believe our hands-on consultative approach to support practice decision-making is a keydifferentiator for our business. We offer a comprehensive selection of more than 120,000 branded products and Henry Schein private brandproducts in stock, as well as more than 180,000 additional products available as special-order items. As the market continues to evolve toward solutions that offer ease and convenience for ordering products andcommunicating with our solutions teams, we are investing in digital enhancements to our e-commerce platformsand our web capabilities. We have established over 3.5 million square feet of space in 28 strategically located distribution centers around theworld to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. Our infrastructure allows usto provide rapid and accurate order fulfillment. Historically, approximately 99% of items have been shippedwithout back ordering and were shipped on the same business day the order is received. Due to the significantincrease in demand for personal protective equipment (“PPE”), as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, during theyear ended December 26, 2020, approximately 93% of items ordered were shipped without back ordering and 90%were shipped on the same business day the order was received. As the demand for PPE stabilizes, we expect ourpercentage of items shipped without back ordering and shipped on the same day to return to historic levels. Thisinfrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment tocustomer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology andvalue-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base.  The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental and medical operating segments. Thiscombined dental and medical segment distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, largeequipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic
Table of Contents  4tests, infection-control products and vitamins. Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners,dental laboratories, schools, government and other institutions. Our global medical group serves physician offices,urgent care centers, ambulatory care sites, emergency medical technicians, dialysis centers, home health, federaland state governments and large enterprises, such as group practices and integrated delivery networks, among otherproviders across a wide range of specialties. While our primary go-to-market strategy is in our capacity as adistributor, we also manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics andendodontics. We have achieved scale in these global businesses primarily through acquisitions as manufacturers ofthese products typically do not utilize a distribution channel to serve customers.  As an alternative to branded product options, we also market under our own private label portfolio of cost-effective,high-quality consumable merchandise products for our dental and medical customers. Sales of our private labelproducts generally achieve gross profit margins that are higher than the average margin on the other products wesell.  Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-addedservices to health care practitioners. Henry Schein One, the largest contributor of sales to this category, offerssoftware systems for dental practitioners. This segment also includes a small medical software business known asMicroMD. In addition, we offer physicians a broad suite of electronic health records, integrated revenue cyclemanagement, and patient communication services. Finally, our value-added practice solutions include financialservice offerings, which include practice finance solutions such as credit card billing and facilitation of customerloans (on a non-recourse basis) to acquire equipment and technology, as well as solutions to broker dental practicetransitions. We do not take on the liability of such loans but instead receive an origination fee for coordinatingloans between practice customers and third-party banking groups. Recent Developments See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – RecentDevelopments” herein for a discussion related to the COVID-19 pandemic and recent corporate transactions. Industry The global health care distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented anddiverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to mid-sized and largegroup practices ranging in size from a few practitioners to several hundred practices owned or operated by dentalsupport organizations (DSOs), hospital systems, or integrated delivery networks (IDNs). Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of suppliesin their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitionershas been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially completeorder fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by thepractitioner, hygienist or office manager. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more thanone distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The health care distribution industry continues to experience growth due to demand driven by the aging population,increased health care awareness and the importance of preventative care, an increasing understanding of theconnection between good oral health and overall health, improved access to care globally, the proliferation ofmedical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage,partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage and technological improvements, includingthe advancement of software and services, prosthetic solutions and telemedicine. In addition, the non-acute marketcontinues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-caresites, particularly physicians’ offices and ambulatory surgery centers. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularlythose with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that canprovide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire
Table of Contents  5companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broadercustomer base.  In addition, customer consolidation will likely lead to multiple locations under common management and themovement of more procedures from the hospital setting to the physician or alternate care setting as the health careindustry is increasingly focused on efficiency and cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capableof providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs,group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis onobtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized managementinformation support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affectdemand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practicemanagement. Competition  The distribution and manufacture of health care supplies and equipment is highly competitive. Many of the healthcare products we sell are available to our customers from a number of suppliers. In addition, our competitors couldobtain exclusive rights from manufacturers to market particular products. Manufacturers also could seek to selldirectly to end-users, and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. In certain parts of thedental end market, such as those related to dental specialty products, manufacturers already sell directly to endcustomers. In North America, we compete with other distributors, as well as several manufacturers, of dental and medicalproducts, primarily on the basis of price, breadth of product line, e-commerce capabilities, customer service andvalue-added products and services. In the dental market, our primary competitors in the U.S. are the PattersonDental division of Patterson Companies, Inc. and Benco Dental Supply Company. In addition, we compete againsta number of other distributors that operate on a national, regional and local level. Our primary competitors in theU.S. medical market, which accounts for the large majority of our global medical sales, are McKesson Corporationand Medline Industries, Inc., which are national distributors. We also compete with a number of regional and localmedical distributors, as well as a number of manufacturers that sell directly to physicians. With regard to our dentalsoftware, we compete against numerous companies, including the Patterson Dental division of PattersonCompanies, Inc., Carestream Health, Inc., Open Dental Software, Inc., PlanetDDS LLC, Good Methods Global Inc.(d.b.a. CareStack) and Curve Dental, LLC. In other software end markets, including revenue cycle management,patient relationship management and patient demand generation, we compete with companies such as VyneTherapeutics Inc., EDI-Health Group, Inc. (d.b.a. Dental X Change, Inc.), Weave Communications,Inc., Solutionreach, Inc., ZocDoc, Inc., LocalMed Inc. and Prosites Inc. The medical practice management andelectronic medical records market is very fragmented and we compete with numerous companies such as theNextGen division of Quality Systems, Inc., eClinicalWorks, Allscripts Healthcare Solutions, Inc., and Epic SystemsCorporation.  Outside of the U.S., we believe we are the only global distributor of supplies and equipment to dental practices, andour competitors are primarily local and regional companies. We also face significant competition internationally,where we compete on the basis of price and customer service against several large competitors, including theGACD Group, Proclinic SA, Lifco AB, Planmeca Oy and Billericay Dental Supply Co. Ltd., as well as a largenumber of other dental and medical product distributors and manufacturers in international countries and territorieswe serve. Competitive Strengths We have more than 88 years of experience in distributing products to health care practitioners resulting in strongawareness of the Henry Schein® brand. Our competitive strengths include: A focus on meeting our customers’ unique needs. We are committed to providing customized solutions to ourcustomers that are driven by our understanding of the end markets we serve and reflect the technology-drivenproducts and services best suited for their practice needs. We are committed to continuing to enhance these
Table of Contents  6offerings through organic investment in our products and our teams, as well through as the acquisition of newproducts and services that may help us better serve our customers. Direct sales and marketing expertise. Our sales and marketing efforts are designed to establish and solidifycustomer relationships through personal or virtual visits by field sales representatives, frequent direct marketing andtelesales contact, emphasizing our broad product lines, including exclusive distribution agreements, competitiveprices and ease of order placement, particularly through our e-commerce platforms. The key elements of our directsales and marketing efforts are: • Field sales consultants. We have over 3,450 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists,covering major North American, European and other international markets. These consultants complementour direct marketing and telesales efforts and enable us to better market, service and support the sale ofmore sophisticated products and equipment. • Marketing. During 2020, we marketed to existing and prospective office-based health care providersthrough a combination of owned, earned and paid digital channels, as well as through catalogs, flyers,direct mail, and other promotional materials. Our strategies included an emphasis on educational contentthrough webinars and content marketing initiatives. We continue to enhance our marketing technology toimprove our targeting capability and the relevance of messaging and offers. • Telesales. We support our direct marketing effort with approximately 2,250 inbound and outboundtelesales representatives, who facilitate order processing, generate new sales through direct and frequentcontact with customers and stay abreast of market developments and the hundreds of new products,services and technologies introduced each year to educate practice personnel. • Electronic commerce solutions. We provide our customers and sales teams with innovative andcompetitive e-commerce solutions. We continue to invest in our e-commerce platform to offer enhancedcontent management so customers can more easily find the products they need and to enable an engagingpurchase experience, supported by excellent customer service.  • Social media. Our operating entities and employees engage our customers and supplier partners throughvarious social media platforms, which are an important element of our communications and marketingefforts. We continue to expand our social media presence to raise awareness about issues, engagecustomers beyond a sale and deliver services and solutions to specialized audiences. Broad product and service offerings at competitive prices. We offer a broad range of products and services to ourcustomers, at competitive prices, in the following categories: • Consumable supplies and equipment. We offer over 120,000 Stock Keeping Units, or SKUs, to ourcustomers. We offer over 180,000 additional SKUs to our customers in the form of special order items. • Technology and other value-added products and services. We sell practice management, patientengagement, and patient demand creation software solutions to our dental customers. Our practicemanagement solutions provide practitioners with electronic medical records, patient treatment history,billing, accounts receivable analyses and management, appointment calendars, electronic claims processingand word processing programs, network and hardware services, e-commerce and electronic marketingservices, sourcing third party patient payment plans, transition services and training and educationprograms for practitioners. We also sell medical software for practice management, certified electronichealth records (“EHR”) and e-Prescribe medications and prescription solutions through MicroMD®. Wehave approximately 800 technical representatives supporting customers using our practice managementsolutions and services. As of December 26, 2020, we had an active user base of approximately 94,500practices and 374,000 consumers, including users of AxiUm, Dentally®, Dentrix Ascend®, DentalVision®, Dentrix® Dental Systems, Dentrix® Enterprise, Easy Dental®, EndoVision®, Evolution® andEXACT®, Gesden®, Julie® Software, Oasis, OMSVision®, Orisline®, PerioVision®, Power Practice®Px, PowerDent, and Viive® and subscriptions for Demandforce®, Sesame, and Lighthouse360® for dentalpractices and DentalPlans.com® for dental patients; and MicroMD® for physician practices.
Table of Contents  7 • Repair services. We have over 140 equipment sales and service centers worldwide that provide a variety ofrepair, installation and technical services for our health care customers. Our over 2,000 technicians provideinstallation and repair services for: dental handpieces; dental and medical small equipment; table topsterilizers; and large dental equipment. • Financial services. We offer our customers solutions in operating their practices more efficiently byproviding access to a number of financial services and products provided by third party vendors (includingnon-recourse financing for equipment, technology and software products; non-recourse patient financing;collection services and credit card processing) at rates that we believe are generally lower than what ourcustomers would be able to secure independently. We also provide consulting services, dental practicevaluation and brokerage services. Commitment to superior customer service. We maintain a strong commitment to providing superior customerservice. We frequently monitor our customer service through customer surveys, focus groups and statisticalreports. Our customer service policy primarily focuses on: • Exceptional order fulfillment. We ship an average of approximately 128,000 cartons daily. Historically,approximately 99% of items have been shipped without back ordering and were shipped on the samebusiness day the order is received. Due to the significant increase in demand for PPE, as a result ofCOVID-19, during the year ended December 26, 2020, approximately 93% of items ordered were shippedwithout back ordering and 90% were shipped on the same business day the order was received. As thedemand for PPE stabilizes, we expect our percentage of items shipped without back ordering and shippedon the same day to return to historical levels. • Comprehensive ordering process. Customers may place orders 24 hours a day, 7 days a week via e-commerce solutions, telephone, fax, e-mail, and mail. Integrated management information systems. Our information systems generally allow for centralized managementof key functions, including accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, payroll, purchasing, sales, orderfulfillment and financial and operational reporting. These systems allow us to manage our growth, deliver superiorcustomer service, properly target customers, manage financial performance and monitor daily operational statistics. Cost-effective purchasing. We believe that cost-effective purchasing is a key element to maintaining and enhancingour position as a competitively priced provider of health care products. We continuously evaluate our purchaserequirements and suppliers’ offerings and prices in order to obtain products at the lowest possible cost. In 2020,our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 30% and4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. Efficient distribution. We distribute our products from our strategically located distribution centers. We strive tomaintain optimal inventory levels in order to satisfy customer demand for prompt delivery and complete orderfulfillment. These inventory levels are managed on a daily basis with the aid of our management informationsystems. Once an order is entered, it is electronically transmitted to the distribution center nearest the customer’slocation for order fulfillment.
                                       Table of Contents  8Products The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net sales by principal categories of products offeredthrough our health care distribution and technology reportable segments: December 26,December 28,December 29,202020192018Health care distribution:Dental products(1)58.4%64.2%67.4%Medical products(2)35.829.828.3Total health care distribution 94.294.095.7Technology and value-added services:Software and related products and other value-added products(3)5.15.24.3Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues99.399.2100.0Corporate TSA revenues(4)0.70.8-Total100.0100.0100.0(1) Includes infection-control products, handpieces, preventatives, impression materials, composites, anesthetics, teeth, dental implants,gypsum, acrylics, articulators, abrasives, dental chairs, delivery units and lights, X-ray supplies and equipment, personal protectiveequipment, equipment repair and high-tech and digital restoration equipment.(2) Includes branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, X-ray products,equipment, personal protective equipment, and vitamins.(3) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, andfinancial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services.(4) Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into inconnection with the Animal Health spin-off, which ended in December 2020. Business Strategy Our objective is to continue to expand as a global value-added provider of health care products and services tooffice-based dental and medical practitioners by increasing their efficiency and success. To accomplish this, wewill apply our competitive strengths in executing the following strategies: • Increase penetration of our existing customer base. We have over 1 million customers worldwide and weintend to increase sales to our existing customer base and enhance our position as their primary supplier.We believe our offering of a broad range of products, services and support, including software solutionsthat can help drive improved workflow efficiency and patient communications for practices, coupled withour full-service value proposition, helps us to retain and grow our customer base. • Increase the number of customers we serve. This strategy includes increasing the productivity of our fieldsales consultants and telesales team, as well as using our customer database to focus our marketing effortsin all of our operating segments. In the dental business, we provide products and services to independentpractices, mid-market groups, and large DSOs as well as community health centers and government sites ofcare. Leveraging our broad array of assets and capabilities, we offer solutions to address these newmarkets. In the medical business, we have expanded to serve customers located in settings outside of thetraditional office, such as urgent care clinics, retail, occupational health and home health settings. Assettings of health care shift, we remain committed to serving these practitioners and providing them withthe products and services they need. • Leverage our value-added products and services. We continue to increase cross-selling efforts for keyproduct lines utilizing a consultative selling process. In the dental business, we have significant cross-selling opportunities between our dental software users and our dental distribution customers. In themedical business, we have opportunities to expand our vaccine, injectables and other pharmaceuticals salesto health care practitioners, as well as cross-selling electronic health record and software when we sell ourcore products. Our strategy extends to providing health systems, integrated delivery networks and otherlarge group and multi-site health care organizations, including physician clinics, these same value added
Table of Contents  9products and services. As physicians and health systems closely align, we have increased access toopportunities for cross-marketing and selling our product and service portfolios. • Pursue strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Our acquisition strategy is focused on investments incompanies that add new customers and sales teams, increase our geographic footprint (whether entering anew country, such as emerging markets, or building scale where we have already invested in businesses),and finally, those that enable us to access new products and technologies. Markets Served  Demographic trends indicate that our markets are growing, as an aging U.S. population is increasingly using healthcare services. Between 2020 and 2030, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2020 and 2040, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 22%. This compares with expectedtotal U.S. population growth rates of approximately 7% between 2020 and 2030 and approximately 12% between2020 and 2040.  In the dental industry, there is predicted to be a rise in oral health care expenditures as the 45-and-older segment ofthe population increases. There is increasing demand for new technologies that allow dentists to increaseproductivity, and this is being driven in the U.S. by lower insurance reimbursement rates. At the same time, there isan expected increase in dental insurance coverage. We support our dental professionals through the many SKUs that we offer, as well as through important value-added services, including practice management software, electronic claims processing, financial services andcontinuing education, all designed to help maximize a practitioner’s efficiency.  In the medical market, there continues to be a migration of procedures from acute-care settings to physicians’offices and home health settings, a trend that we believe provides additional opportunities for us. There also is thecontinuing use of vaccines, injectables and other pharmaceuticals in alternate-care settings. We believe we haveestablished a leading position as a vaccine supplier to the office-based physician practitioner. Additionally, we seek to expand our dental full-service model and our medical offerings in countries whereopportunities exist. Through our “Schein Direct” program, we also have the capability to provide door-to-door airpackage delivery to practitioners in over 190 countries around the world.  For information on revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area, seeNote 18 – Segment and Geographic Data of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.”  Seasonality and Other Factors Affecting Our Business and Quarterly Results We experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations ofsecurities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. Revenues and profitability generally have beenhigher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine,equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-endpromotions. Revenues and profitability may also be impacted by the timing of certain annual and biennial dentaltradeshows where equipment promotions are offered. In addition, some dental practices delay equipment purchasesin the U.S. until year-end due to tax incentives. Revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the firstquarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. We expect our historical seasonality of sales tocontinue in the foreseeable future. 
Table of Contents  10Governmental Regulations We strive to be substantially compliant with the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below, andbelieve we have effective compliance programs and other controls in place to ensure substantial compliance.However, compliance is not guaranteed either now or in the future, as certain laws, regulations and guidance maybe subject to varying and evolving interpretations that could affect our ability to comply, as well as future changes,additions, and enforcement approaches, including in light of political changes. For example, President Biden’sadministration has authorized and encouraged a freeze on certain federal regulations that have been published butare not yet effective, as well as a review of all federal regulations issued during President Trump’s administration. Changes with respect to the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below may require us to update orrevise our operations, services, marketing practices, and compliance programs and controls, and may imposeadditional and unforeseen costs on us, pose new or previously immaterial risks to us, or may otherwise have amaterial adverse effect on our business. Government Certain of our businesses involve the distribution, importation, exportation, marketing and sale of, and third partypayment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard, we are subject to extensive local, state,federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations, including as applicable to our wholesale distribution ofpharmaceuticals and medical devices, and as part of our specialty home medical supply business that distributes andsells medical equipment and supplies directly to patients. The federal government and state governments have alsoincreased enforcement activity in the health care sector, particularly in areas of fraud and abuse, anti-bribery andcorruption, controlled substances prescribing, medical device regulation, and data privacy and security standards.  Government and private insurance programs fund a large portion of the total cost of medical care, and there havebeen efforts to limit such private and government insurance programs, including efforts, thus far unsuccessful, toseek repeal of the entire United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Careand Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, as amended (the “ACA”). In addition, activities tocontrol medical costs, including laws and regulations lowering reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals, medicaldevices, and/or medical treatments or services, are ongoing. Many of these laws and regulations are subject tochange and their evolving implementation may impact our operations and our financial performance. Our businesses are also generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financialperformance, including securities, antitrust, consumer protection, anti-bribery and anti-kickback, customerinteraction transparency, data privacy, data security, government contracting and other laws and regulations.  Failure to comply with law or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Operating, Security and Licensure Standards  Certain of our businesses involve the distribution, importation, exportation, marketing and sale of, and third partypayment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and in this regard we are subject to various local, state, federaland foreign governmental laws and regulations, including as applicable to our wholesale distribution and sale ofpharmaceuticals and medical devices, and, as part of our specialty home medical supply business that distributesand sells medical equipment and supplies directly to patients. Among the United States federal laws applicable tous are the Controlled Substances Act, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (“FDC Act”), andSection 361 of the Public Health Service Act, as well as laws regulating the billing of and reimbursement fromgovernment programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and from commercial payers. We are also subject tocomparable foreign regulations. The FDC Act, the Controlled Substances Act, their implementing regulations, and similar foreign laws generallyregulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, marketing and promotion, sampling, pricing andreimbursement, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, returning or recalling, reporting, and distribution of, andrecord keeping for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices shipped in interstate commerce, and states may similarlyregulate such activities within the state. Furthermore, Section 361 of the Public Health Service Act, which providesauthority to prevent the introduction, transmission or spread of communicable diseases, serves as the legal basis for
Table of Contents  11the United States Food and Drug Administration’s (“FDA”) regulation of human cells, tissues and cellular andtissue-based products, also known as “HCT/P products.” The Federal Drug Quality and Security Act of 2013 brought about significant changes with respect topharmaceutical supply chain requirements. Title II of this measure, known as the Drug Supply Chain Security Act(“DSCSA”), is being phased in over a period of ten years, and is intended to build a national electronic,interoperable system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the United States. The law’s track and trace requirements applicable to manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers (e.g.,pharmacies) of prescription drugs took effect in January 2015, and continues to be implemented. The DSCSAproduct tracing requirements replace the former FDA drug pedigree requirements and pre-empt certain staterequirements that are inconsistent with, more stringent than, or in addition to, the DSCSA requirements. The DSCSA also establishes certain requirements for the licensing and operation of prescription drug wholesalersand third-party logistics providers (“3PLs”), and includes the eventual creation of national wholesaler and 3PLlicenses in cases where states do not license such entities. The DSCSA requires that wholesalers and 3PLsdistribute drugs in accordance with certain standards regarding the recordkeeping, storage and handling ofprescription drugs. The DSCSA requires wholesalers and 3PLs to submit annual reports to the FDA, which includeinformation regarding each state where the wholesaler or 3PL is licensed, the name and address of each facility andcontact information. According to FDA guidance, states are pre-empted from imposing any licensing requirementsthat are inconsistent with, less stringent than, directly related to, or covered by the standards established by federallaw in this area. Current state licensing requirements concerning wholesalers will remain in effect until the FDAissues new regulations as directed by the DSCSA. In addition, with respect to our specialty home medical supplybusiness, we are subject to certain state licensure laws (including state pharmacy laws), and also certainaccreditation standards, including to qualify for reimbursement from Medicare and other third-party payers. The Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 and the Food and Drug Administration Safety andInnovation Act of 2012 amended the FDC Act to require the FDA to promulgate regulations to implement a uniquedevice identification (“UDI”) system. The UDI rule phased in the implementation of the UDI regulations,generally beginning with the highest-risk devices (i.e., Class III medical devices) and ending with the lowest-riskdevices. Most compliance dates were reached as of September 24, 2018, with a final set of requirements for lowrisk devices being reached on September 24, 2022, which will complete the phase in. The UDI regulations require“labelers” to include unique device identifiers (“UDIs”), with a content and format prescribed by the FDA andissued under a system operated by an FDA-accredited issuing agency, on the labels and packages of medicaldevices (including, but not limited to, certain software that qualifies as a medical device under FDA rules), and todirectly mark certain devices with UDIs. The UDI regulations also require labelers to submit certain informationconcerning UDI-labeled devices to the FDA, much of which information is publicly available on an FDA database,the Global Unique Device Identification Database. The UDI regulations and subsequent FDA guidance regardingthe UDI requirements provide for certain exceptions, alternatives and time extensions. For example, the UDIregulations include a general exception for Class I devices exempt from the Quality System Regulation (other thanrecord-keeping requirements and complaint files). Regulated labelers include entities such as devicemanufacturers, repackagers, reprocessors and relabelers that cause a device’s label to be applied or modified, withthe intent that the device will be commercially distributed without any subsequent replacement or modification ofthe label, and include certain of our businesses. Under the Controlled Substances Act, as a distributor of controlled substances, we are required to obtain and renewannually registrations for our facilities from the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”)permitting us to handle controlled substances. We are also subject to other statutory and regulatory requirementsrelating to the storage, sale, marketing, handling, reporting, record-keeping and distribution of such drugs, inaccordance with the Controlled Substances Act and its implementing regulations, and these requirements have beensubject to heightened enforcement activity in recent times. We are subject to inspection by the DEA. Certain of ourbusinesses are also required to register for permits and/or licenses with, and comply with operating and securitystandards of, the DEA, the FDA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), andvarious state boards of pharmacy, state health departments and/or comparable state agencies as well as comparableforeign agencies, and certain accrediting bodies, depending on the type of operations and location of productdistribution, manufacturing or sale. These businesses include those that distribute, manufacture and/or repackage
Table of Contents  12prescription pharmaceuticals and/or medical devices and/or HCT/P products, or own pharmacy operations, orinstall, maintain or repair equipment.  In addition, Section 301 of the National Organ Transplant Act, and a number of comparable state laws, impose civiland/or criminal penalties for the transfer of certain human tissue (for example, human bone products) for valuableconsideration, while generally permitting payments for the reasonable costs incurred in procuring, processing,storing and distributing that tissue. We are also subject to foreign government regulation of such products. TheDEA, the FDA and state regulatory authorities have broad inspection and enforcement powers, including the abilityto suspend or limit the distribution of products by our distribution centers, seize or order the recall of products andimpose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. Foreignregulations subject us to similar foreign enforcement powers. EU Regulation of Medicinal and Dental Products  EU member states regulate their own healthcare systems, as does EU law. The latter regulates certain matters,most notably medicinal products and medical devices. Medicinal products are defined, broadly, as substances orcombinations of substances having certain functionalities and may not include medical devices. EU “regulations”apply in all Member States, whereas “directives” are implemented by the individual laws of member states.  On medicines for humans, we are regulated under Directive No. 2001/83/EC of 6 November 2001 and EURegulation No. 726/2004 of 31 March 2004. These rules provide for the authorization of products, and regulatetheir manufacture, importation, marketing, and distribution. It implements requirements which may beimplemented without warning, as well as a national pharmacovigilance system under which marketingauthorizations may be withdrawn, and includes potential sanctions for breaches of the rules, and on other basessuch as harmfulness or inefficiency.  EU Regulation No. 1223/2009 of 30 November 2009on cosmetic products requires that cosmetic products (whichincludes dental products) be safe for human health when used under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions ofuse and comply with certain obligations which apply to manufacturer, importer and distributor. It includes marketsurveillance, and non-compliance may result in the recall or withdrawal of products, along with other sanctions.  In the European Union, the EU Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745 (“EU MDR”) covers a wide scope of ouractivities, from dental material to X-ray machines, and certain software. It was meant to become applicable threeyears after publication (in May 2020). However, on April 23, 2020, to allow European Economic Area (“EEA”)national authorities, notified bodies, manufacturers and other actors to focus fully on urgent priorities related to theCOVID-19 pandemic, the European Council and Parliament adopted Regulation 2020/561, postponing the date ofapplication of the EU MDR by one year (to May 2021). In the meantime, rules provided for by Directive No.90/385/EEC of 20 June 1990on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to active implantablemedical devices remain applicable (in particular to certain software).  The EU MDR significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance requirements for the medical deviceindustry as a whole. Once applicable, the EU MDR will among other things: •  Strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; •  Establish explicit provisions on manufacturers’ responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market;•  Improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number;•  Set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; •  Strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market; and•  Identify importers and distributors and medical device products through registration in a database(EudaMed not due until 2022 and after).  
Table of Contents  13In particular, the EU MDR imposes stricter requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatoryrequirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for thedistribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance. Medical devices that havebeen assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may continue to be placed on the marketuntil 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier); however, requirements regarding thedistribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance have to be observed bymanufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date. Other EU regulations that may apply under appropriate circumstances include EU Regulation No. 1907/2006 of 18December 2006concerning the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, whichrequires importers to register substances or mixtures that they import in the EU beyond certain quantities, and theEU Regulation No. 1272/2008 of 16 December 2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances andmixtures (“CLP Regulation”), which sets various obligations with respect to the labelling and packaging ofconcerned substances and mixtures. Furthermore, compliance with legal requirements has required and may in the future require us to delay productrelease, sale or distribution, or institute voluntary recalls of products we sell, each of which could result inregulatory and enforcement actions, financial losses and potential reputational harm. Our customers are alsosubject to significant federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulation, which may affect our interactionswith customers, including the design and functionality of our products. Certain of our businesses are subject to various additional federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations,including with respect to the sale, transportation, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or potentiallyhazardous substances, and safe working conditions. In addition, certain of our businesses must operate incompliance with a variety of burdensome and complex billing and record-keeping requirements in order tosubstantiate claims for payment under federal, state and commercial healthcare reimbursement programs. Certain of our businesses also maintain contracts with governmental agencies and are subject to certain regulatoryrequirements specific to government contractors. Antitrust and Consumer Protection The federal government of the United States, most U.S. states and many foreign countries have antitrust laws thatprohibit certain types of conduct deemed to be anti-competitive, as well as consumer protection laws that seek toprotect consumers from improper business practices. At the U.S. federal level, the Federal Trade Commissionoversees enforcement of these types of laws, and states have similar government agencies. Violations of antitrust orconsumer protection laws may result in various sanctions, including criminal and civil penalties. Private plaintiffsmay also bring civil lawsuits against us in the United States for alleged antitrust law violations, including claims fortreble damages. EU law also regulates competition and provides for detailed rules protecting consumers. Health Care Fraud Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referraland reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “falseclaims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement tofederal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibitsoliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering,purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that arepaid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Certain additional state and federal laws, suchas the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibit physicians and otherhealth professionals from referring a patient to an entity with which the physician (or family member) has afinancial relationship, for the furnishing of certain designated health services (for example, durable medicalequipment and medical supplies), unless an exception applies. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened enforcement activity over the past fewyears, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing
Table of Contents  14complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under applicable false claims laws,and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may besevere, and could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and theability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on ourbusiness. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority ina manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlementexpenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputationalharm and the incurring of substantial costs. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these statelaws have their own penalties, which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties, as well as otherfraud and abuse laws.  With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns aboutfinancial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. As a result, weregularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreignoperations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption lawsand other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have beenthe focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations, andhave adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predictwhether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices inresponse to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, or failure to comply with applicable law, could havea material adverse effect on our business. Affordable Care Act The United States Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and EducationReconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, as amended (the “ACA”), increased federal oversight of privatehealth insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce Medicare expenditures and the costof health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage. The ACAalso materially expanded the number of individuals in the United States with health insurance.  The ACA has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate and Congressional actionseeking to repeal some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented. In 2012, the UnitedStates Supreme Court, in upholding the constitutionality of the ACA and its individual mandate provision requiringthat people buy health insurance or else face a penalty, simultaneously limited ACA provisions requiring Medicaidexpansion, making such expansion a state-by-state decision. In addition, one of the major political parties in theUnited States remains committed to seeking the ACA’s legislative repeal, but legislative efforts to do so havepreviously failed to pass both chambers of Congress. Under President Trump’s administration, a number ofadministrative actions were taken to materially weaken the ACA, including, without limitation, by permitting theuse of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating “premium support” for insurers providing policiesunder the ACA. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017 (the “Tax Act”), which contains a broad range of taxreform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions, also effectively repealed the ACA’s individual mandate by zeroing out the penaltyfor non-compliance. In the most recent ACA litigation, the federal Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals found theindividual mandate to be unconstitutional, and returned the case to the District Court for the Northern District ofTexas for consideration of whether the remainder of the ACA could survive the excision of the individualmandate. The Fifth Circuit’s decision was appealed to the United States Supreme Court. The Supreme Court heardargument on the appeal on November 10, 2020, and a decision is anticipated soon. Any outcome of this case thatchanges the ACA, in addition to future legislation, regulation, guidance and/or Executive Orders that do the same,could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry. An ACA provision, generally referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act or Open Payments Program (the“Sunshine Act”), imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers and
Table of Contents  15distributors with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain covered recipients (includingphysicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and distributors and for group purchasingorganizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. The Centers forMedicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website,including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. Amendments expanded thelaw to also require reporting, effective January 1, 2022, of payments or other transfers of value to physicianassistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives, and this new requirement will be effective for data collected beginning in calendar year 2021. TheSunshine Act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to reportunder certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Sunshine Act, and some ofthese state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiringtransparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers.  In the United States, government actions to seek to increase health-related price transparency may also affect ourbusiness.  Another notable Medicare health care reform initiative, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of2015 (“MACRA”), enacted on April 16, 2015, established a new payment framework, which modified certainMedicare payments to “eligible clinicians,” including physicians, dentists and other practitioners. Under MACRA,certain eligible clinicians are required to participate in Medicare through the Merit-Based Incentive PaymentSystem (“MIPS”) or Advanced Alternative Payment Models (“APMs”), through which Medicare reimbursement toeligible clinicians includes both positive and negative payment adjustments that take into account quality,promoting interoperability, cost, and improvement activities. Data collected in the first MIPS performance year(2017) determined payment adjustments that began January 1, 2019. MACRA standards continue to evolve, andrepresent a fundamental change in physician reimbursement that is expected to provide substantial financialincentives for physicians to participate in risk contracts, and to increase physician information technology andreporting obligations. The implications of the implementation of MACRA are uncertain and will depend on futureregulatory activity and physician activity in the marketplace. New payment and delivery system reform programs,including those modeled after such federal program, are also increasingly being rolled out at the state level throughMedicaid administrators, as well as through the private sector, which may further alter the marketplace and impactour business.  Recently, in addition to other government efforts to control health care costs, there has been increased scrutiny ondrug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President, executive branchagencies and various states. At the state level, several states have adopted laws that require drug manufacturers toprovide advance notice of certain price increases and to report information relating to those price increases, whileothers have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription drug affordability boards or multi-payer purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs. At the federal level, several related bills have beenintroduced and regulations proposed which, if enacted or finalized, respectively, would impact drug pricing andrelated costs. As a result of political, economic and regulatory influences, the health care distribution industry in the UnitedStates is under intense scrutiny and subject to fundamental changes. We cannot predict what further reformproposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. EU Directive on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products  EU law provides for the regulation of the pricing of medicinal products which are implemented by EU memberstates (Directive No. 89/105/EC of 21 December 1988relating to the transparency of measures regulating thepricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in the scope of national health insurance systems). Member states may, subject notably to transparency conditions and to the statement of reasons based uponobjective and verifiable criteria, regulate the price charged (or its increases) for authorized medicines and their levelof reimbursement, or they may freeze prices, place controls on the profitability of persons responsible for placingmedicinal products on the market, and include or exclude the medicine on the list of products covered by nationalhealth insurance systems.  
Table of Contents  16EU law does not expressly include provisions like those of the Sunshine Act in the United States, but a growingnumber of EU member states (such as France since 2011) have enacted laws to increase the transparency ofrelationships in the healthcare sector. The scope of these laws varies from on member state to another and may, forexample, include the relations between healthcare industry players and physicians or their associations, studentspreparing for medical professions or their associations, teachers, health establishments or publishers of prescriptionand dispensing assistance software. Regulated Software; Electronic Health Records The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital healthproducts intended for use in health care settings. The 21st Century Cures Act (the “Cures Act”), signed into law onDecember 13, 2016, among other things, amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software fromFDA regulation, including clinical decision support software that meets certain criteria. On September 27, 2019,the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable Cures Actstandards, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt fromregulation by the FDA as medical devices, and continues to issue new guidance in this area. Certain of ourbusinesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dentalpractice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one ormore of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantialadditional requirements with respect to these products. In addition, our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products, and our specialty homemedical supply business, include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health,clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may bevulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us toexpend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns and could involveclaims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. For example, we are directly or indirectlysubject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy andsecurity of personal information, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,as amended, and implementing regulations (“HIPAA”), the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornographyand Marketing Act, the Telephone Protection and Electronic Protection Act of 1991, Section 5 of the Federal TradeCommission Act, the California Privacy Act (“CCPA”), and the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”) thatbecomes effective on January 1, 2023. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection are continuallyevolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. These requirements may not be harmonized, may beinterpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another or may conflict with otherrules or our practices. Our businesses’ failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breachof contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm toour reputation. Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain,use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design ourproducts to reflect these legal requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations.  Also, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union adopted the pan-European General DataProtection Regulation (“GDPR”), effective from May 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals inEurope (“Data Subjects”), including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPRextended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors, and generally imposes increasedrequirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or services to Data Subjects ormonitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties ofup to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues, and Data Subjects may seek damages. EUmember states may individually impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters, such asemployee personal data. With respect to the personal data it protects, the GDPR requires, among other things,company accountability, consents from Data Subjects or other acceptable legal basis to process the personal data,breach notifications within 72 hours, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding thestorage, use or other processing of the personal data. The GDPR also provides rights to Data Subjects relatingnotably to information, access, modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data.  
Table of Contents  17In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents, becameeffective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protectionsregarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. Compliancewith the new obligations imposed by the CCPA depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and applythem, and because the CCPA is relatively new, and its implementing regulations were released in August of 2020,there remains some uncertainty about how the CCPA will be interpreted by the courts and enforced by theregulators. If we fail to comply with the CCPA or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the CCPA,we may be subject to certain fines or other penalties and litigation, any of which may negatively impact ourreputation, require us to expend significant resources, and harm our business. Furthermore, California votersapproved the CPRA on November 3, 2020, which will amend and expand the CCPA, including by providingconsumers with additional rights with respect to their personal information, and creating a new state agency toenforce the CCPA and the CPRA. The CPRA will come into effect on January 1, 2023, applying to informationcollected by businesses on or after January 1, 2022.  Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansivepersonal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. While we believe we havesubstantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA requirements,our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether theinterpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations ofthe requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store andmanage patient medical or dental records. These customers, and we, are subject to laws, regulations and industrystandards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection ofthe privacy and security of those records, and our products may also be used as part of these customers’comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacyand security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actualfailure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual dataprivacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claimsagainst us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and otherliabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. Various federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care providers of certain electronic health carerecords systems and processes. The initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians anddentists, through MIPS, to use EHR technology in accordance with certain evolving requirements, includingregarding quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. Qualification for the MIPSincentive payments requires the use of EHRs that are certified as having certain capabilities designated in evolvingstandards adopted by CMS and by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology ofHHS (“ONC”). Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of such certified EHR systems andother products linked to government supported incentive programs. In order to maintain certification of our EHRproducts, we must satisfy these changing governmental standards. If any of our EHR systems do not meet thesestandards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, we may beexposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. Forexample, on May 31, 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-yearcorporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified EHR systems, based on allegations that the vendor, bymisrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit falseMedicare and Medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments in violation of the False Claims Act.  Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complexfunctionality, such as reporting functionality. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effortmay involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicablestandards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronichealth data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactionsinvolving claims submissions to third party payers. Failure to abide by these and other electronic health data
Table of Contents  18transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties, and other liabilitiesand expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, theability of these connected systems to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information becomesincreasingly important. For example, on September 6, 2017, the FDA issued final guidance to assist industry inidentifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectivelyexchange and use exchanged information. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks includingthose associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. There may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care. E-Commerce Electronic commerce solutions have become an integral part of traditional health care supply and distributionrelationships. Our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intensecompetition. The continuing advancement of online commerce requires us to cost-effectively adapt to changingtechnologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address thechanging demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitiveofferings.  Through our proprietary, technologically-based suite of products, we offer customers a variety of competitivealternatives. We believe that our tradition of reliable service, our name recognition and large customer base builton solid customer relationships, position us well to participate in this significant aspect of the distribution business. We continue to explore ways and means to improve and expand our Internet presence and capabilities, includingour online commerce offerings and our use of various social media outlets. International Transactions United States and foreign import and export laws and regulations require us to abide by certain standards relating tothe importation and exportation of products. We also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning theconduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, Germananti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books andrecords, as well as other types of foreign requirements similar to those imposed in the United States. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgatedthereunder and possess all material permits and licenses required for the conduct of our business, there can be noassurance that regulations that impact our business or customers’ practices will not have a material adverse effecton our business.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that mayaffect our results of operations and financial condition. Proprietary Rights  We hold trademarks relating to the “Henry Schein®” name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. We intendto protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. 
Table of Contents  19Employees and Human Capital At Henry Schein, our employees are our greatest asset. We employ more than 19,000 full-time equivalentemployees, including approximately 2,250 telesales representatives, over 3,450 field sales consultants, includingequipment sales specialists, 2,000 installation and repair technicians, 3,550 warehouse employees, 800 computerprogrammers and technicians, 675 management employees and 6,300 office, clerical and administrative employees. Approximately 49% of our workforce is based in the United States and approximately 51% is based outside of theUnited States. Approximately 13% of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. We believethat our relations with our employees are excellent. We refer to our employees as Team Schein Members, or “TSMs.” Our TSMs are the cornerstone of the Company. Our success is built on the engagement and commitment of our team, which is dedicated to meeting the needs ofour customers, supplier partners, fellow TSMs, stockholders and society. We are committed to supporting thepersonal and professional development of our TSMs, as well as providing competitive benefits and a safe, inclusiveworkplace, and believe that these measures help us to retain our TSMs and attract new TSMs. As part of thiscommitment, we have, among other things:• Developed a strong collaborative workplace culture. We believe our TSMs’ ability to effectivelycommunicate and cooperate across functional and departmental teams positively impacts our performance. Each TSM’s performance is evaluated annually, based on a measure of Team Schein values, with a focuson open communication. Our team’s performance as a whole is evaluated via a culture survey, conductedevery two years, distributed to all TSMs, which, among other things, addresses collaboration. The resultsfrom our culture surveys are reviewed by senior leaders, reported to the Board of Directors and used toimplement programs and processes designed to further enhance our culture. We are currently in theprocess of further developing our collaborative culture by, among other things, strengthening our existingcommitment to diversity and inclusion, as further described below.• Committed to enhance our Diversity and Inclusion (“D&I”) initiatives. We believe a diverse workforcefosters innovation and cultivates an environment filled with unique perspectives. As a result, D&I helps usmeet the needs of customers around the world. We collect feedback through hosting roundtables where oursenior leaders actively listen to our TSMs on topics related to D&I, and the insights learned are used toguide our efforts to support a diverse and inclusive environment. To guide our efforts and educationrelated to D&I, we have established an Executive Diversity and Inclusion Council with engagement fromour Board of Directors and Executive Management Committee. This Council drives the Company’s overallD&I strategy. In 2020, we launched a D&I learning program to educate our TSMs on critical D&I relatedtopics, and management is incentivized to advance our D&I efforts. Additionally, we promote engagementby utilizing our Employee Resource Groups as an inclusive and diverse vehicle for all TSMs to share,connect, learn, and develop both personally and professionally. We believe that these efforts will serve as acritical stepping stone as we continue to strengthen our D&I initiatives in an effort to meet the evolvingneeds of our customers, supplier partners, TSMs, stockholders and society.• Committed to the professional development of our TSMs. We have invested in education and skill building,and provide formal and informal learning opportunities to our TSMs. All TSMs globally are offered abroad suite of talent and professional development training programs targeted to specific learningopportunities based on their current and potential future role within the Company. We also offer over 50organizational and development training courses designed to aid in the overall development andadvancement of skills and competencies to enable organizational success. • Supported talent development and succession planning. Talent planning efforts are an integral part of ourcommitment to ensure a strong leadership pipeline across the organization. We continuously identify agroup of potential management successors as part of our succession planning process. Our senior leaderswork to develop our TSMs’ talent and focus the team to execute our long-term strategic plans. Our Boardof Directors is provided with periodic updates regarding our talent development and succession planningefforts, participates in professional development activities with our TSMs and receives formaldocumentation on these topics annually. 
 Table of Contents  20• Supported TSM health and safety. We offer competitive health and wellness programs and other benefits toeligible TSMs. In addition to employee health, we are committed to providing a safe and secure workenvironment for all TSMs. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020, we implementedcertain policy and procedure changes in an effort to protect our TSMs and customers, and to supportappropriate health and safety protocols. While TSMs at our manufacturing and distribution facilities, aswell as field sales consultants and equipment service technicians, have continued to work onsite or in thefield to provide vital services to our customers, most TSMs in administrative functions have effectivelyworked remotely since mid-March. To support the health and safety of our TSMs, we, among other things,implemented extensive cleaning and sanitation processes and face mask policies to protect TSMs at ourmanufacturing and distribution facilities, instituted social distancing and face mask policies for our fieldsales consultants and equipment service technicians and adopted broad work-from-home initiatives forTSMs in administrative functions. In connection with this shift to remote working, we made investments inequipment, technology, and security upgrades to help protect our information and enhance our team’sability to work remotely. Additionally, to help the team manage stress during the pandemic, we, amongother things, established a “COVID-19 Resource Center” to provide a central location for allcommunications to support the health of TSMs and their families, and hold virtual Global Town Halls forall TSMs. Available Information We make available free of charge through our Internet website,www.henryschein.com, our annual report on Form10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, statements of beneficial ownership ofsecurities on Forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant toSection 13(a) and Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after suchmaterials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, orSEC. Our principal executive offices are located at 135 Duryea Road, Melville, New York 11747, and ourtelephone number is (631) 843-5500. Unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the “Company,”“Henry Schein,” “we,” “us” and “our” mean Henry Schein, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidatedsubsidiaries.
           Table of Contents  21Information about our Executive Officers The following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: NameAgePositionStanley M. Bergman 71Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, DirectorGerald A. Benjamin 68Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, DirectorJames P. Breslawski 67Vice Chairman, President, DirectorMichael S. Ettinger 59Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs and Chief of Staff, SecretaryMark E. Mlotek 65Executive Vice President, Chief Strategic Officer, DirectorSteven Paladino 63Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, DirectorWalter Siegel 61Senior Vice President and General Counsel Stanley M. Bergman has been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. Mr. Bergman held the position of President from 1989 to 2005. Mr. Bergman held the position of Executive VicePresident from 1985 to 1989 and Vice President of Finance and Administration from 1980 to 1985.  Gerald A. Benjamin has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since 2000 and adirector since 1994. Prior to holding his current position, Mr. Benjamin was Senior Vice President ofAdministration and Customer Satisfaction since 1993. Mr. Benjamin was Vice President of DistributionOperations from 1990 to 1992 and Director of Materials Management from 1988 to 1990. Before joining us in1988, Mr. Benjamin was employed for 12 years at Estée Lauder, Inc., in various management positions where hislast position was Director of Materials Planning and Control.  James P. Breslawski has been our Vice Chairman since 2018, President since 2005 and a director since 1992. Mr.Breslawski was the Chief Executive Officer of our Henry Schein Global Dental Group from 2005 to 2018. Mr.Breslawski held the position of Executive Vice President and President of U.S. Dental from 1990 to 2005, withprimary responsibility for the North American Dental Group. Between 1980 and 1990, Mr. Breslawski heldvarious positions with us, including Chief Financial Officer, Vice President of Finance and Administration andCorporate Controller. Michael S. Ettinger has been our Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairs, Chief of Staff and Secretarysince 2015. Prior to his current position, Mr. Ettinger served as Senior Vice President, Corporate & Legal Affairsand Secretary from 2013 to 2015, Corporate Senior Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary from 2006 to2013, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2000 to 2006, Vice President and Associate GeneralCounsel from 1998 to 2000 and Associate General Counsel from 1994 to 1998. Before joining us, Mr. Ettingerserved as a senior associate with Bower & Gardner and as a member of the Tax Department at Arthur Andersen. Mark E. Mlotek has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Strategic Officer since 2012. Mr. Mlotek wasSenior Vice President and subsequently Executive Vice President of the Corporate Business Development Groupbetween 2000 and 2012. Prior to that, Mr. Mlotek was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1994 to1999 and became a director in 1995. Prior to joining us, Mr. Mlotek was a partner in the law firm of ProskauerRose LLP, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989to 1994. Steven Paladino has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2000. Prior to holdinghis current position, Mr. Paladino was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to 2000 andhas been a director since 1992. From 1990 to 1992, Mr. Paladino served as Vice President and Treasurer and from1987 to 1990 served as Corporate Controller. Before joining us, Mr. Paladino was employed in public accountingfor seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of BDO USA, LLP. Mr. Paladino is acertified public accountant. 
                   Table of Contents  22Walter Siegel has been our Senior Vice President and General Counsel since 2013. Prior to joining us, Mr. Siegelwas employed with Standard Microsystems Corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as Senior Vice President, GeneralCounsel and Secretary.  Other Executive Management The following table sets forth certain information regarding other Executive Management: NameAgePositionDavid Brous52President, Strategic Business Units Group and Asia Pacific & Brazil DentalBrad Connett62President, U.S. Medical GroupJonathan Koch 46Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, Global Dental GroupLorelei McGlynn 57Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources OfficerJames Mullins56Senior Vice President, Global ServicesChristopher Pendergast58Senior Vice President and Chief Technology OfficerMichael Racioppi 66Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising OfficerRené Willi, Ph.D.53President, Global Dental Surgical Group David Brous has been our President, Strategic Business Units Group and Asia Pacific & Brazil Dental since 2019. Mr. Brous joined us in 2002 and has held many positions within the organization, including leading and managingthe Corporate Business Development Group and the International Healthcare Group (managing our InternationalAnimal Health business, International Medical business and Australia / New Zealand Dental business). Brad Connett has been our President of the U.S. Medical Group since 2018. Mr. Connett joined us in 1997 andhas held a number of increasingly responsible positions at the Company. Throughout his career, he has receivednumerous industry honors, including the John F. Sasen Leadership Award from the Health Industry DistributorsAssociation (HIDA), in recognition of his service to the industry, and induction into the Medical Distribution Hallof Fame by Repertoire Magazine. Jonathan Koch has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Executive Officer of our Global Dental Group since2018. Prior to joining us, for the years 2006 to 2018, Mr. Koch was a senior executive at Covance, the drugdevelopment services business of Laboratory Corporation of America. In his last role at Covance, Mr. Koch wasthe Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance Clinical Development & CommercializationServices. Prior to that, Mr. Koch was Executive Vice President and Group President of Covance Research andDevelopment Laboratories from 2015 to 2017. Mr. Koch was also President of Covance Central LaboratoryServices from 2010 to 2015, and Vice President at Covance, with various responsibilities, from 2006 to 2010. Priorto Covance, Mr. Koch held senior leadership roles of increasing responsibility while employed with Charles RiverLaboratories from 1998 to 2006.  Lorelei McGlynn has been our Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources Officer since 2013. Since joiningus in 1999, Ms. McGlynn has served as Vice President, Global Human Resources and Financial Operations from2008 to 2013, Chief Financial Officer, International Group and Vice President of Global Financial Operations from2002 to 2008 and Vice President, Finance, North America from 1999 to 2002. Prior to joining us, Ms. McGlynnserved as Assistant Vice President of Finance at Adecco Corporation. James Mullins has been our Senior Vice President of Global Services since 2018. Mr. Mullins joined us in 1988and has held a number of key positions with increasing responsibility, including Global Chief Customer ServiceOfficer. 
Table of Contents  23Christopher Pendergast has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer since 2018. Prior tojoining us, Mr. Pendergast was the employed by VSP Global from 2008 to 2018, most recently as the ChiefTechnology Officer and Chief Information Officer. Prior to VSP Global, Mr. Pendergast served in roles ofincreasing responsibility at Natural Organics, Inc., from 2006 to 2008, IdeaSphere Inc./Twinlab Corporation from2000 to 2006, IBM Corporation from 1987 to 1994 and 1998 to 2000 and Rohm and Haas from 1994 to 1998. Michael Racioppi has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Merchandising Officer since 2008. Prior to holdinghis current position, Mr. Racioppi was President of the Medical Division from 2000 to 2008 and Interim Presidentfrom 1999 to 2000, and Corporate Vice President from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the MedicalGroup, Marketing and Merchandising departments. Mr. Racioppi served as Senior Director, CorporateMerchandising from 1992 to 1994. Before joining us in 1992, Mr. Racioppi was employed by KetchumDistributors, Inc. as the Vice President of Purchasing and Marketing. He currently serves on the board of NationalDistribution and Contracting and previously served on the board of Health Distribution Management Associationand Health Industry Distributors Association (HIDA). René Willi, Ph.D. has been our President, Global Dental Surgical Group, Henry Schein Inc., since 2013. Prior tojoining Henry Schein, Dr. Willi held senior level roles with Institut Straumann AG as Executive Vice President,Surgical Business Unit from 2005 to 2013. Prior to Straumann, he held roles of increasing responsibility inMedtronic Plc’s cardiovascular division from 2003 to 2005 and with McKinsey & Company as a managementconsultant from 2000 to 2003.