General
Headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, Humana Inc. and its subsidiaries, referred to throughout this document as “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or “Humana,” is a leading health and well-being company committed to helping our millions of medical and specialty members achieve their best health. Our successful history in care delivery and health plan administration is helping us create a new kind of integrated care with the power to improve health and well‐being and lower costs. Our efforts are leading to a better quality of life for people with Medicare, families, individuals, military service personnel, and communities at large. To accomplish that, we support physicians and other health care professionals as they work to deliver the right care in the right place for their patients, our members. Our range of clinical capabilities, resources and tools, such as in‐home care, behavioral health, pharmacy services, data analytics and wellness solutions, combine to produce a simplified experience that makes health care easier to navigate and more effective.
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 17 million members in our medical benefit plans, as well as approximately 5 million members in our specialty products. During 2020, 83% of our total premiums and services revenue were derived from contracts with the federal government, including 14% derived from our individual Medicare Advantage contracts in Florida with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, under which we provide health insurance coverage to approximately 728,300 members as of December 31, 2020.
Humana Inc. was organized as a Delaware corporation in 1964. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky 40202, the telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000, and our website address is www.humana.com. We have made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This Annual Report on Form 10-K, or 2020 Form 10-K, contains both historical and forward-looking information. See Item 1A. – Risk Factors in this 2020 Form 10-K for a description of a number of factors that may adversely affect our results or business.



4

Business Segments
We manage our business with three reportable segments: Retail, Group and Specialty, and Healthcare Services. Beginning January 1, 2018, we exited the individual commercial fully-insured medical health insurance business, as well as certain other business in 2018, and therefore no longer report separately the Individual Commercial segment and the Other Businesses category in the current year. Previously, the Other Businesses category included businesses that were not individually reportable because they did not meet the quantitative thresholds required by generally accepted accounting principles, primarily our closed-block of commercial long-term care insurance policies which were sold in 2018. The reportable segments are based on a combination of the type of health plan customer and adjacent businesses centered on well-being solutions for our health plans and other customers, as described below. These segment groupings are consistent with information used by our Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Decision Maker, to assess performance and allocate resources. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for segment financial information.
    
Our Products
Our medical and specialty insurance products allow members to access health care services primarily through our networks of health care providers with whom we have contracted. These products may vary in the degree to which members have coverage. Health maintenance organizations, or HMOs, include comprehensive managed care benefits generally through a participating network of physicians, hospitals, and other providers. Preferred provider organizations, or PPOs, provide members the freedom to choose any health care provider. However PPOs generally require the member to pay a greater portion of the provider’s fee in the event the member chooses not to use a provider participating in the PPO’s network. Point of Service, or POS, plans combine the advantages of HMO plans with the flexibility of PPO plans. In general, POS plans allow members to choose, at the time medical services are needed, to seek care from a provider within the plan’s network or outside the network. In addition, we offer services to our health plan members as well as to third parties that promote health and wellness, including pharmacy solutions, provider, and clinical programs, as well as services and capabilities to advance population health. At the core of our strategy is our integrated care delivery model, which unites quality care, high member engagement, and sophisticated data analytics. Three core elements of the model are to improve the consumer experience by simplifying the interaction with us, engaging members in clinical programs, and offering assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. Our approach to primary, physician-directed care for our members aims to provide quality care that is consistent, integrated, cost-effective, and member-focused. The model is designed to improve health outcomes and affordability for individuals and for the health system as a whole, while offering our members a simple, seamless healthcare experience. The discussion that follows describes the products offered by each of our segments.

5

Our Retail Segment Products
This segment is comprised of products sold on a retail basis to individuals including medical and supplemental benefit plans described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Retail segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Retail Segment
Premiums and
Services Revenue		Percent of
Consolidated
Premiums  and
Services Revenue	 		(dollars in millions)	Premiums:					Individual Medicare Advantage		$	51,697 			68.0 	%	Group Medicare Advantage		7,774 			10.2 	%	Medicare stand-alone PDP		2,742 			3.6 	%	Total Retail Medicare		62,213 			81.8 	%	State-based Medicaid		4,223 			5.6 	%	Medicare Supplement		688 			0.9 	%	Total premiums		67,124 			88.3 	%	Services		19 			— 	%	Total premiums and services revenue		$	67,143 			88.3 	% 

Medicare
We have participated in the Medicare program for private health plans for over 30 years and have established a national presence, offering at least one type of Medicare plan in all 50 states. We have a geographically diverse membership base that we believe provides us with greater ability to expand our network of PPO and HMO providers. We employ strategies including health assessments and clinical guidance programs such as lifestyle and fitness programs for seniors to guide Medicare beneficiaries in making cost-effective decisions with respect to their health care. We believe these strategies result in cost savings that occur from making positive behavior changes.
Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some disabled persons under the age of 65 certain hospital and medical insurance benefits. CMS, an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, administers the Medicare program. Hospitalization benefits are provided under Part A, without the payment of any premium, for up to 90 days per incident of illness plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Eligible beneficiaries are required to pay an annually adjusted premium to the federal government to be eligible for physician care and other services under Part B. Beneficiaries eligible for Part A and Part B coverage under traditional fee-for-service Medicare are still required to pay out-of-pocket deductibles and coinsurance. Throughout this document this program is referred to as Medicare FFS. As an alternative to Medicare FFS, in geographic areas where a managed care organization has contracted with CMS pursuant to the Medicare Advantage program, Medicare beneficiaries may choose to receive benefits from a Medicare Advantage organization under Medicare Part C. Pursuant to Medicare Part C, Medicare Advantage organizations contract with CMS to offer Medicare Advantage plans to provide benefits at least comparable to those offered under Medicare FFS. Our Medicare Advantage, or MA, plans are discussed more fully below. Prescription drug benefits are provided under Part D.
Individual Medicare Advantage Products
We contract with CMS under the Medicare Advantage program to provide a comprehensive array of health insurance benefits, including wellness programs, chronic care management, and care coordination, to Medicare eligible persons under HMO, PPO, Private Fee-For-Service, or PFFS, and Special Needs Plans, including Dual Eligible Special Needs, or D-SNP, plans in exchange for contractual payments received from CMS, usually a fixed payment per member per month. With each of these products, the beneficiary receives benefits in excess of Medicare FFS, typically including reduced cost sharing, enhanced prescription drug benefits, care coordination, data
6

analysis techniques to help identify member needs, complex case management, tools to guide members in their health care decisions, care management programs, wellness and prevention programs and, in some instances, a reduced monthly Part B premium. Most Medicare Advantage plans offer the prescription drug benefit under Part D as part of the basic plan, subject to cost sharing and other limitations. Accordingly, all of the provisions of the Medicare Part D program described in connection with our stand-alone prescription drug plans in the following section also are applicable to most of our Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Advantage plans may charge beneficiaries monthly premiums and other copayments for Medicare-covered services or for certain extra benefits. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1.
Our Medicare HMO and PPO plans, which cover Medicare-eligible individuals residing in certain counties, may eliminate or reduce coinsurance or the level of deductibles on many other medical services while seeking care from participating in-network providers or in emergency situations. Except in emergency situations or as specified by the plan, most HMO plans provide no out-of-network benefits. PPO plans carry an out-of network benefit that is subject to higher member cost-sharing. In some cases, these beneficiaries are required to pay a monthly premium to the HMO or PPO plan in addition to the monthly Part B premium they are required to pay the Medicare program.
Most of our Medicare PFFS plans are network-based products with in and out of network benefits due to a requirement that Medicare Advantage organizations establish adequate provider networks, except in geographic areas that CMS determines have fewer than two network-based Medicare Advantage plans. In these areas, we offer Medicare PFFS plans that have no preferred network. Individuals in these plans pay us a monthly premium to receive typical Medicare Advantage benefits along with the freedom to choose any health care provider that accepts individuals at rates equivalent to Medicare FFS payment rates.
CMS uses monthly rates per person for each county to determine the fixed monthly payments per member to pay to health benefit plans. These rates are adjusted under CMS’s risk-adjustment model which uses health status indicators, or risk scores, to improve the accuracy of payment. The risk-adjustment model, which CMS implemented pursuant to the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (BBA) and the Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000 (BIPA), generally pays more for members with predictably higher costs and uses principal hospital inpatient diagnoses as well as diagnosis data from ambulatory treatment settings (hospital outpatient department and physician visits) to establish the risk-adjustment payments. Under the risk-adjustment methodology, all health benefit organizations must collect from providers and submit the necessary diagnosis code information to CMS within prescribed deadlines. CMS is phasing-in the process of calculating risk scores using diagnoses data from the Risk Adjustment Processing System, or RAPS, to diagnoses data from the Encounter Data System, or EDS. The RAPS process requires MA plans to apply a filter logic based on CMS guidelines and only submit diagnoses that satisfy those guidelines. For submissions through EDS, CMS requires MA plans to submit all the encounter data and CMS will apply the risk adjustment filtering logic to determine the risk scores. For 2020, 50% of the risk score was calculated from claims data submitted through EDS. CMS increased that percentage to 75% for 2021 and will complete the phased-in transition from RAPS to EDS by using only EDS data to calculate risk scores in 2022. For more information refer to Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data and Item 1A. - Risk Factors.
At December 31, 2020, we provided health insurance coverage under CMS contracts to approximately 3,962,700 individual Medicare Advantage members, including approximately 728,300 members in Florida. These Florida contracts accounted for premiums revenue of approximately $10.9 billion, which represented approximately 21.1% of our individual Medicare Advantage premiums revenue, or 14.4% of our consolidated premiums and services revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Our individual Medicare Advantage products covered under Medicare Advantage contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by May 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare Advantage products have been renewed for 2021, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2021 have been approved.
7

Individual Medicare Stand-Alone Prescription Drug Products
We offer stand-alone prescription drug plans, or PDPs, under Medicare Part D, including a PDP offering co-branded with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or the Humana-Walmart plan. Generally, Medicare-eligible individuals enroll in one of our plan choices between October 15 and December 7 for coverage that begins on the following January 1. Our stand-alone PDP offerings consist of plans offering basic coverage with benefits mandated by Congress, as well as plans providing enhanced coverage with varying degrees of out-of-pocket costs for premiums, deductibles, and co-insurance. Our revenues from CMS and the beneficiary are determined from our PDP bids submitted annually to CMS. These revenues also reflect the health status of the beneficiary and risk sharing provisions as more fully described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, titled “Medicare Part D.” Our stand-alone PDP contracts with CMS are renewed generally for a calendar year term unless CMS notifies us of its decision not to renew by May 1 of the calendar year in which the contract would end, or we notify CMS of our decision not to renew by the first Monday in June of the calendar year in which the contract would end. All material contracts between Humana and CMS relating to our Medicare stand-alone PDP products have been renewed for 2021, and all of our product offerings filed with CMS for 2021 have been approved.
We have administered CMS’s Limited Income Newly Eligible Transition, or LI-NET, prescription drug plan program since 2010. This program allows individuals who receive Medicare’s low-income subsidy to also receive immediate prescription drug coverage at the point of sale if they are not already enrolled in a Medicare Part D plan. CMS temporarily enrolls newly identified individuals with both Medicare and Medicaid into the LI-NET prescription drug plan program, and subsequently transitions each member into a Medicare Part D plan that may or may not be a Humana Medicare plan.
Group Medicare Advantage and Medicare stand-alone PDP
We offer products that enable employers that provide post-retirement health care benefits to replace Medicare wrap or Medicare supplement products with Medicare Advantage or stand-alone PDPs from Humana. These products are primarily offered as PPO plans on the same Medicare platform as individual Medicare Advantage plans. These plans offer the same types of benefits and services available to members in our individual Medicare plans discussed previously, however, group Medicare Advantage plans typically have richer benefit offerings than individual Medicare Advantage plans, including prescription drug coverage in the gap, for instance, due to the desire of many customers to closely match their pre-retirement benefit structure.

Medicare Supplement
We also offer Medicare supplement products that helps pay the medical expenses that Medicare FFS does not cover, such as copayments, coinsurance and deductibles.
State-based Medicaid Contracts
Through our state-based contracts, we serve members enrolled in Medicaid, a program funded by both the federal and state governments and administered by states to care for their most vulnerable populations. Within federal guidelines, states determine whom to cover, but general categories for traditional Medicaid programs include: children and some adults receiving assistance through Temporary Assistance to Needy Families, or TANF, and Aged, Blind, and Disabled, or ABD, adults. Through the Long-Term Support Services, or LTSS, program, states offer programs to deliver support services to people who receive home and community or institution-based services for long-term care.
We have contracts in several states to serve Medicaid-eligible members. In Florida, we cover the traditional programs (TANF and ABD members), as well as provide LTSS services. In Kentucky, we serve the traditional programs. Originally, our Kentucky Medicaid contract was subject to a 100% coinsurance contract with CareSource Management Group Company, ceding all the risk to CareSource; however, effective January 1, 2020, we terminated the reinsurance agreement with CareSource and assumed full administration and financial risk. In 2021, our Medicaid business significantly expanded in several states, including in Wisconsin with the acquisition of iCare on
8

January 1, 2021, in Oklahoma with a new contract award; and in South Carolina with the approval to participate in its traditional managed Medicaid program.
We also serve members who qualify for both Medicaid and Medicare, referred to as “dual eligible," through our Medicaid, Medicare Advantage, and stand-alone prescription drug plans. As the dual eligible population represents a disproportionate share of costs, Humana is participating in varied integration models designed to improve health outcomes and reduce avoidable costs. These programs largely operate separately from traditional Medicaid and LTSS programs. We currently serve dual eligible members under CMS’s dual eligible demonstration program in Illinois, and have been approved to participate in South Carolina’s dual demonstration program starting in January 2022.
As part of our individual Medicare Advantage products, we also offer D-SNP plans. In connection with offering a D-SNP plan in a particular state, we are required to enter into a special coordinating contract with the applicable state Medicaid agency. To meet federal requirements that took effect in 2021, states have begun to implement new D-SNP requirements to strengthen Medicaid-Medicare integration requirements for D-SNPs. Some states are also moving to support the dual eligible population by linking D-SNP participation to enrollment in a plan that also participates in a state-based Medicaid program to coordinate and integrate both Medicare and Medicaid benefits.

Our Group and Specialty Segment Products
The Group and Specialty segment consists of employer group commercial fully-insured medical and specialty health insurance benefits marketed to individuals and employer groups, including dental, vision and life insurance benefits, as well as administrative services only, or ASO products as described in the discussion that follows. The following table presents our premiums and services revenue for the Group and Specialty segment by product for the year ended December 31, 2020:
  Group and Specialty
Segment
Premiums and
Services Revenue		Percent of
Consolidated
Premiums  and
Services Revenue	 		(dollars in millions)	External Revenue:					Premiums:					Fully-insured commercial group		$	4,761 			6.3 	%	Specialty		1,699 			2.2 	%	Total premiums		6,460 			8.5 	%	Services		780 			1.0 	%	Total premiums and services revenue		$	7,240 			9.5 	%	Intersegment services revenue		$	29 			n/a 
n/a – not applicable
Group Commercial Coverage
Our commercial products sold to employer groups include a broad spectrum of major medical benefits with multiple in-network coinsurance levels and annual deductible choices that employers of all sizes can offer to their employees on either a fully-insured, through HMO, PPO, or POS plans, or self-funded basis. Our plans integrate clinical programs, plan designs, communication tools, and spending accounts.
Our ASO products are offered to small group and large group employers who self-insure their employee health plans. We receive fees to provide administrative services which generally include the processing of claims, offering access to our provider networks and clinical programs, and responding to customer service inquiries from members of self-funded employers. These products may include all of the same benefit and product design characteristics of our fully-insured HMO, PPO, or POS products described previously. Under ASO contracts, self-funded employers generally retain the risk of financing the costs of health benefits, with large group customers retaining a greater share
9

and small group customers a smaller share of the cost of health benefits.  All small group ASO customers and many large group ASO customers purchase stop loss insurance coverage from us to cover catastrophic claims or to limit aggregate annual costs.
Employers can customize their offerings with optional benefits such as dental, vision, and life products. We also offer optional benefits such as dental and vision to individuals.
Military Services
Under our TRICARE contracts with the United States Department of Defense, or DoD, we provide administrative services to arrange health care services for the dependents of active duty military personnel and for retired military personnel and their dependents. We have participated in the TRICARE program since 1996 under contracts with the DoD. Under our contracts, we provide administrative services while the federal government retains all of the risk of the cost of health benefits. Accordingly, we account for revenues under the current contract net of estimated health care costs similar to an administrative services fee only agreement. On January 1, 2018, we began to deliver services under the T2017 East Region contract. The T2017 East Region contract comprises 32 states and approximately six million TRICARE beneficiaries. The T2017 East Region contract is a 5-year contract set to expire on December 31, 2022 and is subject to renewals on January 1 of each year during its term at the government's option.

Our Healthcare Services Segment Products
The products offered by our Healthcare Services segment are key to our integrated care delivery model. This segment is comprised of stand-alone businesses that offer services including pharmacy solutions, provider services, clinical care services, and predictive modeling and informatics services to other Humana businesses, as well as external health plan members, external health plans, and other employers or individuals and are described in the discussion that follows. Our intersegment revenue is described in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The following table presents our services revenue for the Healthcare Services segment by line of business for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Healthcare  Services
Segment
Services Revenue		Percent of
Consolidated
Premiums  and
Services Revenue	 		(dollars in millions)	Intersegment revenue:					Pharmacy solutions		$	24,587 			n/a	Provider services		2,266 			n/a	Clinical care services		566 			n/a	Total intersegment revenue		$	27,419 				External services revenue:					Pharmacy solutions		$	581 			0.8 	%	Provider services		328 			0.4 	%	Clinical care services		107 			0.1 	%	Total external services revenue		$	1,016 			1.3 	% 
n/a – not applicable
Pharmacy solutions
Humana Pharmacy Solutions®, or HPS, manages traditional prescription drug coverage for both individuals and employer groups in addition to providing a broad array of pharmacy solutions. HPS also operates prescription mail order services for brand, generic, and specialty drugs and diabetic supplies through Humana Pharmacy, Inc.
10

Provider services
We operate full-service, multi-specialty medical centers in a number of states, including Florida, Kansas, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas, staffed by primary care providers and medical specialists with a primary focus on the senior population under our Care Delivery Organization, or CDO. CDO operates these clinics primarily under the Conviva, Partners in Primary Care or Family Physicians Group, or FPG, brands. Our care delivery subsidiaries operate our medical center business through both employed physicians and care providers, and through third party management service organizations with whom we contract to arrange for and manage certain clinical services. CDO currently operates 156 medical centers and employs or contracts with 662 primary care providers, serving approximately 255,400 members, generally under risk sharing arrangements with Humana and third party health plans.
 
CDO also operates a Medical Services Organization, or MSO, through Conviva that coordinates medical care for Medicare Advantage beneficiaries in Florida and Texas. This MSO provides resources in care coordination, financial risk management, clinical integration and patient engagement that help physicians improve the patient experience as well as care outcomes. Conviva’s MSO collaborates with physicians, medical groups and integrated delivery systems to successfully transition to value-based care by engaging, partnering and offering practical services and solutions.
 
In February 2020, Partners in Primary Care entered into a strategic partnership with Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe to open a minimum of 50 additional payor-agnostic, senior-focused primary care centers over the next three years and in 2018 we acquired FPG serving Medicare Advantage and Managed Medicaid HMO patients through its senior focused clinics in Greater Orlando, Florida.  Also, during 2018, we acquired the remaining equity interest in Miami, Florida based MCCI Holdings, LLC, or MCCI, a privately held management service organization and healthcare provider that primarily coordinates medical care for Medicare Advantage beneficiaries in Florida and Texas. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
 
Clinical care services
Via in-home care, telephonic health counseling/coaching, and remote monitoring, we are actively involved in the care management of our customers with the greatest needs. Clinical care services include the operations of Humana At Home, Inc., or Humana At Home®. As a chronic-care provider of in-home care for seniors, we provide innovative and holistic care coordination services for individuals living with multiple chronic conditions, individuals with disabilities, fragile and aging-in-place members and their care givers. We focus our deployment of these services in geographies with a high concentration of members living with multiple chronic conditions. The clinical support and care provided by Humana At Home is designed to improve health outcomes and result in a higher number of days members can spend at their homes instead of in an acute care facility. At December 31, 2020, we have enrolled approximately 910,600 members, with complex chronic conditions participating in a Humana Chronic Care Program, reflecting enhanced predictive modeling capabilities and focus on proactive clinical outreach and member engagement, particularly for our Medicare Advantage membership. These members may not be unique to each program since members have the ability to enroll in multiple programs. We believe these initiatives lead to better health outcomes for our members and lower health care costs.
We have committed additional investments in our home care capabilities with our acquisition of a 40% minority interest in Kindred at Home, Inc., or Kindred at Home, and Curo Health Services, or Curo, which combined creates the nation's largest home health and hospice provider with significant overlap with our individual Medicare Advantage business. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
We are committed to the integrated physical and mental health of our members. Accordingly, we take a holistic approach to healthcare, offering care management and wellness programs. These programs use our capabilities that enable us to create a more complete view of an individual’s health, designed to connect, coordinate and simplify health care while reducing costs. These capabilities include our health care analytics engine, which reviews billions
11

of clinical data points on millions of patients each day to provide members, providers, and payers real-time clinical insights to identify evidence-based gaps-in-care, drug safety alerts and other critical health concerns to improve outcomes. Additionally, our technology connects Humana and disparate electronic health record systems to enable the exchange of essential health information in real-time to provide physicians and care teams with a single, comprehensive patient view.
Our care management programs take full advantage of the population health, wellness and clinical applications offered by CareHub, our clinical management tool used by providers and care managers across the company to help our members achieve their best health, to offer various levels of support, matching the intensity of the support to the needs of members with ongoing health challenges through telephonic and onsite programs. These programs include Personal Nurse, chronic condition management, and case management as well as programs supporting maternity, cancer, neonatal intensive care unit, and transplant services.
Wellness
We offer wellness solutions including our Go365 wellness and loyalty rewards program, employee assistance program, and clinical programs. These programs, when offered collectively to employer customers as our Total Health product, turn any standard plan of the employer's choosing into an integrated health and well-being solution that encourages participation in these programs.
Our Go365 program provides our members with access to a science-based, actuarially driven wellness and loyalty program that features a wide range of well-being tools and rewards that are customized to an individual’s needs and wants. A key element of the program includes a sophisticated health-behavior-change model supported by an incentive program.

Our Individual Commercial Segment Products
Our individual health plans were marketed under the HumanaOne brand. We offered products both on and off of the public exchange.

We discontinued substantially all off-exchange individual commercial medical plans effective January 1, 2017, and we exited our remaining individual commercial medical business effective January 1, 2018.

Other Businesses
Other Businesses includes those businesses that do not align with the reportable segments previously described, primarily our closed-block long-term care insurance policies, which were sold in 2018. For a detailed discussion of the sale refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. – Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

12

Membership
The following table summarizes our total medical membership at December 31, 2020, by market and product:
Retail Segment		Group and Specialty Segment				(in thousands)		Individual
Medicare
Advantage	Group
Medicare
Advantage	
Medicare
stand-
alone PDP	Medicare Supplement	State-
based
contracts		Fully-
insured
commercial
Group	ASO	Military services	Total	Percent
of Total	Florida	728.3 		7.5 		169.7 		18.1 		594.4 			135.2 		40.1 		— 		1,693.3 		10.1 	%	Texas	319.7 		247.9 		266.9 		27.4 		— 			114.0 		33.4 		— 		1,009.3 		6.0 	%	Kentucky	107.3 		69.2 		167.0 		7.4 		168.6 			94.6 		136.5 		— 		750.6 		4.5 	%	Georgia	196.0 		1.9 		101.8 		11.1 		— 			113.6 		77.9 		— 		502.3 		3.0 	%	California	95.1 		0.9 		383.9 		20.7 		— 			— 		— 		— 		500.6 		3.0 	%	Illinois	139.1 		26.1 		153.1 		8.0 		9.4 			26.9 		39.3 		— 		401.9 		2.4 	%	Ohio	164.0 		22.1 		109.9 		40.5 		— 			26.9 		31.1 		— 		394.5 		2.3 	%	Missouri/Kansas	105.9 		4.7 		166.3 		14.2 		— 			35.5 		28.6 		— 		355.2 		2.1 	%	North Carolina	188.6 		0.4 		133.6 		6.6 		— 			— 		— 		— 		329.2 		2.0 	%	Tennessee	152.4 		3.7 		97.8 		8.3 		— 			36.5 		21.2 		— 		319.9 		1.9 	%	Louisiana	183.4 		13.5 		53.7 		3.8 		— 			43.9 		20.1 		— 		318.4 		1.9 	%	Virginia	134.4 		3.9 		118.6 		9.1 		— 			— 		— 		— 		266.0 		1.6 	%	Indiana	120.0 		6.7 		102.0 		11.6 		— 			17.5 		6.9 		— 		264.7 		1.6 	%	Wisconsin	61.1 		5.6 		87.3 		7.5 		— 			51.0 		29.4 		— 		241.9 		1.4 	%	Michigan	89.9 		20.2 		102.9 		6.1 		— 			1.4 		— 		— 		220.5 		1.3 	%	Alabama	75.4 		82.5 		55.7 		5.0 		— 			— 		— 		— 		218.6 		1.3 	%	Arizona	99.5 		0.4 		78.2 		9.0 		— 			19.1 		7.9 		— 		214.1 		1.3 	%	New York	75.2 		6.4 		113.0 		8.1 		— 			— 		— 		— 		202.7 		1.1 	%	Military services	— 		— 		— 		— 		— 			— 		— 		5,998.7 		5,998.7 		35.6 	%	Others	927.4 		89.6 		1,405.3 		113.1 		— 			61.3 		32.5 		— 		2,629.2 		15.6 	%	Totals	3,962.7 		613.2 		3,866.7 		335.6 		772.4 			777.4 		504.9 		5,998.7 		16,831.6 		100.0 	% 
Provider Arrangements
We provide our members with access to health care services through our networks of health care providers whom we employ or with whom we have contracted, including hospitals and other independent facilities such as outpatient surgery centers, primary care providers, specialist physicians, dentists, and providers of ancillary health care services and facilities. These ancillary services and facilities include laboratories, ambulance services, medical equipment services, home health agencies, mental health providers, rehabilitation facilities, nursing homes, optical services, and pharmacies. Our membership base and the ability to influence where our members seek care generally enable us to obtain contractual discounts with providers.
We use a variety of techniques to provide access to effective and efficient use of health care services for our members. These techniques include the coordination of care for our members, product and benefit designs, hospital inpatient management systems, the use of sophisticated analytics, and enrolling members into various care management programs. The focal point for health care services in many of our HMO networks is the primary care provider who, under contract with us, provides services to our members, and may control utilization of appropriate services by directing or approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers. Some physicians may have arrangements under which they can earn bonuses when certain target goals relating to the provision of quality patient care are met. We have available care management programs related to complex chronic conditions such as congestive heart failure and coronary artery disease. We also have programs for prenatal and premature infant care, asthma related illness, end stage renal disease, diabetes, cancer, and certain other conditions.
We typically contract with hospitals on either (1) a per diem rate, which is an all-inclusive rate per day, (2) a case rate for diagnosis-related groups (DRG), which is an all-inclusive rate per admission, or (3) a discounted charge
13

for inpatient hospital services. Outpatient hospital services generally are contracted at a flat rate by type of service, ambulatory payment classifications, or APCs, or at a discounted charge. APCs are similar to flat rates except multiple services and procedures may be aggregated into one fixed payment. These contracts are often multi-year agreements, with rates that are adjusted for inflation annually based on the consumer price index, other nationally recognized inflation indexes, or specific negotiations with the provider. Outpatient surgery centers and other ancillary providers typically are contracted at flat rates per service provided or are reimbursed based upon a nationally recognized fee schedule such as the Medicare allowable fee schedule.
Our contracts with physicians typically are renewed automatically each year, unless either party gives written notice, generally ranging from 90 to 120 days, to the other party of its intent to terminate the arrangement. Most of the physicians in our PPO networks and some of our physicians in our HMO networks are reimbursed based upon a fixed fee schedule, which typically provides for reimbursement based upon a percentage of the standard Medicare allowable fee schedule.
The terms of our contracts with hospitals and physicians may also vary between Medicare and commercial business. A significant portion of our Medicare network contracts, including those with both hospitals and physicians, are tied to Medicare reimbursement levels and methodologies.

Capitation
We offer providers a continuum of opportunities to increase the integration of care and offer assistance to providers in transitioning from a fee-for-service to a value-based arrangement. These include performance bonuses, shared savings and shared risk relationships. For some of our medical membership, we share risk with providers under capitation contracts where physicians and hospitals accept varying levels of financial risk for a defined set of membership, primarily HMO membership. Under the typical capitation arrangement, we prepay these providers a monthly fixed-fee per member, known as a capitation (per capita) payment, to cover all or a defined portion of the benefits provided to the capitated member.
We believe these risk-based models represent a key element of our integrated care delivery model at the core of our strategy. Our health plan subsidiaries may enter into these risk-based contracts with third party providers or our owned provider subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2020, approximately 1,465,700 members, or 8.7% of our medical membership, were covered under risk-based contracts, which provide all member benefits, including 1,231,900 individual Medicare Advantage members, or 31.1% of our total individual Medicare Advantage membership.
Physicians under capitation arrangements typically have stop loss coverage so that a physician’s financial risk for any single member is limited to a maximum amount on an annual basis. We typically process all claims and measure the financial performance of our capitated providers and require guarantees in certain instances. However, we delegated claim processing functions under capitation arrangements covering approximately 230,400 HMO members, including 224,300 individual Medicare Advantage members, or 18.2% of the 1,231,900 individual Medicare Advantage members covered under risk-based contracts at December 31, 2020, with the provider assuming substantially all the risk of coordinating the members’ health care benefits. Capitation expense under delegated arrangements for which we have a limited view of the underlying claims experience was approximately $2.4 billion, or 3.9% of total benefits expense, for the year ended December 31, 2020. We remain financially responsible for health care services to our members in the event our providers fail to provide such services.

Accreditation Assessment
Our accreditation assessment program consists of several internal programs, including those that credential providers and those designed to meet the audit standards of federal and state agencies as well as external accreditation standards. We also offer quality and outcome measurement and improvement programs such as the Health Care Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS, which is used by employers, government purchasers and the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) to evaluate health plans based on various criteria, including effectiveness of care and member satisfaction.
14

Providers participating in our networks must satisfy specific criteria, including licensing, patient access, office standards, after-hours coverage, and other factors. Most participating hospitals also meet accreditation criteria established by CMS and/or The Joint Commission.
Recredentialing of participating providers occurs every three years, unless otherwise required by state or federal regulations. Recredentialing of participating providers includes verification of their medical licenses, review of their malpractice liability claims histories, review of their board certifications, if applicable, and review of applicable quality information. A committee composed of a peer group of providers reviews the applications of providers being considered for credentialing and recredentialing.
We maintain accreditation for certain of our health plans and/or departments from NCQA, the Accreditation Association for Ambulatory Health Care (AAAHC), and/or URAC. Certain commercial businesses, such as those impacted by a third-party labor agreement or those where a request is made by the employer, may require or prefer accredited health plans.
NCQA reviews our compliance based on standards for quality improvement, population health management, credentialing, utilization management, network management, and member experience. We have achieved and maintained NCQA accreditation in many of our commercial, Medicare and Medicaid HMO/POS and PPO markets and our wellness program, Go365. Humana’s pharmacy organization is accredited by URAC.

Sales and Marketing
We use various methods to market our products, including television, radio, the Internet, telemarketing, and direct mailings.
At December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 1,400 sales representatives, as well as approximately 1,600 telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of Medicare products, including Medicare Advantage and PDP, in our Retail segment and specialty products in our Group and Specialty segment, including making appointments for sales representatives with prospective members. We have a marketing arrangement with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., or Wal-Mart, for our individual Medicare Stand-Alone PDP offering. We also sell group Medicare Advantage products through large employers. In addition, we market our Medicare and individual specialty products through licensed independent brokers and agents. For our Medicare products, commissions paid to employed sales representatives and independent brokers and agents are based on a per unit commission structure, regulated in structure and amount by CMS. For our individual specialty products, we generally pay brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and premium volume. In addition to a commission based directly on premium volume for sales to particular customers, we also have programs that pay brokers and agents based on other metrics. These include commission bonuses based on sales that attain certain levels or involve particular products. We also pay additional commissions based on aggregate volumes of sales involving multiple customers.
In our Group and Specialty segment, individuals may become members of our commercial HMOs and PPOs through their employers or other groups, which typically offer employees or members a selection of health insurance products, pay for all or part of the premiums, and make payroll deductions for any premiums payable by the employees. We attempt to become an employer’s or group’s exclusive source of health insurance benefits by offering a variety of HMO, PPO, and specialty products that provide cost-effective quality health care coverage consistent with the needs and expectations of their employees or members. We use licensed independent brokers, independent agents, digital insurance agencies, and employees to sell our group products. Many of our larger employer group customers are represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in the design and purchase of health care products. We pay brokers and agents using the same commission structure described above for our specialty products.

15

Underwriting
Since 2014, the Patient Protection and Affordability Care Act and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which we collectively refer to as the Health Care Reform Law, requires certain group health plans to guarantee issuance and renew coverage without pre-existing condition exclusions or health-status rating adjustments. Accordingly, certain group health plans are not subject to underwriting. Further, underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with our individual Medicare, military services, or Medicaid products because government regulations require us to accept all eligible applicants regardless of their health or medical history.

Competition
The health benefits industry is highly competitive. Our competitors vary by local market and include other managed care companies, national insurance companies, and other HMOs and PPOs. Many of our competitors have a larger membership base and/or greater financial resources than our health plans in the markets in which we compete. Our ability to sell our products and to retain customers may be influenced by such factors as those described in Item 1A. – Risk Factors in this 2020 Form 10-K.

Government Regulation
Diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both the federal and state levels continue to affect aspects of the nation’s health care system, including the Health Care Reform Law.
Our management works proactively to ensure compliance with all governmental laws and regulations affecting our business. We are unable to predict how existing federal or state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws or regulations affecting our businesses may be enacted or proposed, when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new laws and regulations will have on our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.
For a description of certain material current activities in the federal and state legislative areas, see Item 1A. – Risk Factors in this 2020 Form 10-K.

Certain Other Services
Captive Insurance Company
We bear general business risks associated with operating our Company such as professional and general liability, employee workers’ compensation, cybersecurity, and officer and director errors and omissions risks. Professional and general liability risks may include, for example, medical malpractice claims and disputes with members regarding benefit coverage. We retain certain of these risks through our wholly-owned, captive insurance subsidiary. We reduce exposure to these risks by insuring levels of coverage for losses in excess of our retained limits with a number of third-party insurance companies. We remain liable in the event these insurance companies are unable to pay their portion of the losses.
Centralized Management Services
We provide centralized management services to each of our health plans and to our business segments from our headquarters and service centers. These services include management information systems, product development and administration, finance, human resources, accounting, law, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management, internal audit, actuarial, underwriting, claims processing, billing/enrollment, and customer service. Through intercompany service agreements approved, if required, by state regulatory authorities, Humana Inc., our parent company, charges a management fee for reimbursement of certain centralized services provided to its subsidiaries.
16

Human Capital Management
Our associates are essential to our success in delivering on our core strategy, and creating positive healthcare experiences for our members. We are committed to recruiting, developing, and retaining strong, diverse teams, actively promoting a culture of inclusion and diversity. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 48,700 associates and approximately 900 additional medical professionals working under management agreements primarily between us and affiliated physician-owned associations.
Our Culture
We believe that our members' experience is linked to our associates' experience and that engaged, productive associates are the key to building a healthy company, creating a caring environment that enables our associates to go above and beyond for our members, driving innovation, and allowing for fulfilling experiences that incentivize them to stay with us over the long-term. Each year, we measure our success and opportunities to advance through our annual, third-party administered Associate Experience Survey. Results of the 2020 survey showed that 93% of associates are highly engaged. To continue to build on these results, we provide the survey results to our entire associate population and encourage leaders to use the information to create open, honest action plans with their teams to further deepen our collective engagement.
Inclusion and Diversity
Our associates’ vast experiences and perceptions, their unique characteristics, backgrounds and beliefs, drive the groundbreaking, strategic thinking that gives our Company its competitive edge. We are committed to having balanced diversity at all levels of the Company and have developed a pathway for top, diverse talent within our recruiting initiatives. To achieve our recruiting and hiring goals we partner with local and national advocacy groups to provide information about open roles, assistance with resume preparation and application submission.
We have also incorporated balanced interview panels into our interview process, through which we strategically engage a broad spectrum of interviewers that bring greater diversity and perspective. This proven best practice strengthens the candidate experience and hiring of diverse talent, ensuring we get the right talent for any given role, and minimizes the potential for personal blind spots when evaluating candidates.
Pay and Benefits Philosophy, Compensation and Financial Security
Our Company’s pay and benefits structure is designed to motivate and reward our associates at all levels of the organization for their skill development, demonstration of our values and performance. While our programs vary by location and business, they may include:
Financial
Health
Life
Competitive Base Pay
Medical, Dental and Vision Benefits
Paid time off, paid holidays and jury duty pay
Associate Incentive Plan (Annual Bonus)
Supplemental Health Benefits
Paid Parental Leave
Supplemental Pay (Including Overtime)
Long-term Care Insurance
Caregiver Time Off Program
Recognition Pay and Service Awards
Wellness and Rewards Program
Employee Assistance Program
401(k) Retirement Savings Plan with Company Match Program
Health Plan Incentives
Associate Discount Programs and Services
Life insurance
On-site Health and Fitness Centers
Helping Hands Program
Short- and Long-Term Disability Insurance
On-site Health Screenings and Vaccinations
Transit Services
 
17

Talent Development and Growth Opportunities
We champion the individual goals and development of our associates, and provide a number of programs to ensure that our associates have the resources and support they need to deliver on their passion. We provide opportunities for our associates to earn professional certifications through continued education programs and to participate in instructor-led and online courses designed to strengthen soft and hard-skills and enhance leadership development. Our Career Cultivation team sponsors workshops and events to promote associate accountability within their personal and professional growth as part of overall career development. Our associates are also encouraged to participate in mentoring programs with people of various backgrounds and cultures. We view mentoring as an essential development tool for sharing skills and knowledge so we can all succeed. Our commitment to mentoring feeds the successful future of our Company. Additionally, we utilize development programs to enhance talent within our organizations through targeted internal initiatives, where we aim to upskill and reskill existing associates for opportunities in new career pathways.
COVID-19
Our response to the pandemic and performance throughout 2020 would not have been possible without the extraordinary, resilient efforts of our associates, who went above and beyond to continually meet the needs of our stakeholders while facing their own daily challenges as a result of COVID-19. To support them, we quickly transitioned nearly all of our workforce to a remote work environment, while ensuring that our frontline care providers, clinicians, and pharmacists who continued to care for our members and patients in our clinics and in the home, and ensure that they had access to their medications, had the equipment and space to safely do so. We also expanded our benefits to assist our associates who faced financial hardship and to address the difficulties that the pandemic presented to daily life. A few of those COVID-19 response initiatives are highlighted below.
• transitioning approximately 94% of the workforce to work-at-home and equipping them with the necessary technology and resources for a successful remote work environment.
• providing funding for emergency relief for elder and child caregiving and financial hardship from family job loss, food insecurity and household essentials.
• adjusting pay and leave policies to provide additional paid time off to manage personal challenges as a result of COVID-19 including school closings and child care.
Additional information related to our human capital can be found by referencing our Definitive Proxy Statement of the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on April 22, 2021 appearing under the captions "Human Capital Management" and "Our COVID-19 Response."

18

Information About Our Executive Officers
Set forth below are names and ages of all of our current executive officers as of February 1, 2021, their positions, and the date first elected as an officer:
Name		Age		Position		First
Elected
Officer		 	Bruce D. Broussard		58		President and Chief Executive Officer, Director		12/11		(1)										Vishal Agrawal, M.D.		46		Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Officer		12/18		(2)										Heather M. Carroll Cox		50		Chief Digital Health and Analytics Officer		08/18		(3)										Sam M. Deshpande		56		Chief Technology and Risk Officer		07/17		(4)										Susan M. Diamond		47		Segment President, Home Business		07/19		(5)										William K. Fleming, PharmD		53		Segment President, Clinical and Pharmacy Solutions		03/17		(6)										Christopher H. Hunter		52		Segment President, Group and Military Business		01/14		(7)										Timothy S. Huval		54		Chief Administrative Officer		12/12		(8)										Brian A. Kane		48		Chief Financial Officer		06/14		(9)										William H. Shrank, M.D., MSHS		49		Chief Medical and Corporate Affairs Officer		04/19		(10)										Joseph C. Ventura		44		Chief Legal Officer		02/19		(11)										T. Alan Wheatley		53		Segment President, Retail		03/17		(12)										Cynthia H. Zipperle		58		Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller		12/14		(13) 
(1)Mr. Broussard currently serves as Director, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer), having held these positions since January 1, 2013. Mr. Broussard was elected President upon joining the Company in December 2011 and served in that capacity through December 2012. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Broussard was Chief Executive Officer of McKesson Specialty/US Oncology, Inc. US Oncology was purchased by McKesson in December 2010. At US Oncology, Mr. Broussard served in a number of senior executive roles, including Chief Financial Officer, Chief Executive Officer, and Chairman of the Board.
(2)Dr. Agrawal currently serves as Chief Strategy and Corporate Development Officer, having joined the company in December 2018.  Prior to joining the company, Dr. Agrawal was Senior Advisor for The Carlyle Group L.P., having held that position from October 2017 to December 2018.  Previously, Dr. Agrawal was President and Chief Growth Officer of Ciox Health, the largest health information exchange and release of information services organization in the U.S. from December of 2015 to October 2018.  Prior to joining Ciox Health, Dr. Agrawal served as President of Harris Healthcare Solutions from January 2013 to December 2015.
(3)Ms. Cox currently serves as Chief Digital Health and Analytics Officer, having joined the Company in August 2018. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Cox served as Chief Technology and Digital Officer at USAA, where she led the teams responsible for designing and building personalized and digitally-enabled end-to-end experiences for USAA members. Prior to USAA, Heather was the CEO of Citi FinTech at Citigroup, Inc., helping the company adapt to a future dominated by mobile technology, and she headed Card Operations, reshaping customer and digital experience for Capital One.
19

(4)Mr. Deshpande currently serves as Chief Technology and Risk Officer, having been elected to this position in August 2019, from his prior role as Chief Risk Officer. Before joining Humana in July 2017, Mr. Deshpande spent 17 years at Capital One in key leadership positions, most recently as Business Chief Risk Officer for the U.S. and international card business. He previously served as the Business Chief Risk Officer and Head of Enterprise Services for the Financial Services Division, responsible for Business Risk, Data Science, Data Quality, Process Excellence and Project Management. He also led marketing and analysis for the Home Loans, Auto Finance, and Credit Card businesses, with responsibilities for business strategy, credit, product and marketing.
(5)Ms. Diamond currently serves as Segment President, Home Business, having been elected to this position in July 2019. Ms. Diamond joined the Company in June 2004 and has spent the majority of her Humana career in various leadership roles in the Medicare business, with a particular passion and emphasis on growth and consumer segmentation strategies for the Company’s individual Medicare Advantage and Stand Alone Part D offerings. Ms. Diamond also served for two and a half years as the Enterprise Vice President of Finance, where she was responsible for enterprise planning and forecasting, trend analytics and had responsibility for each of the Company’s line of business CFOs and controllers.
(6)Dr. Fleming currently serves as Segment President, Clinical and Pharmacy Solutions, where he is responsible for Humana’s Clinical Solutions (strategy, quality, trend, and operations), Pharmacy Solutions (PBM, mail, specialty, retail), and Enterprise Clinical Operating Model, having held this position since December 2019. Prior to that, Dr. Fleming held positions of Segment President, Healthcare Services as well as President of the Company’s pharmacy business. Dr. Fleming joined the Company in 1994.
(7)Mr. Hunter currently serves as Segment President, Group and Military Business, having been elected to this position in August 2018 after having previously served as the Company’s Chief Strategy Officer since January 2014.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Hunter served as President of Provider Markets at The TriZetto Group, Inc. from July 2012 until December 2013, and as Senior Vice President, Emerging Markets at BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee from 2009 through July 2012. While at BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee, Mr. Hunter was simultaneously President and Chief Executive Officer of Onlife Health, a national health and wellness subsidiary of BlueCross BlueShield of Tennessee.
(8)Mr. Huval currently serves as Chief Administrative Officer, having been elected to this position in July 2019, from his previous role as Chief Human Resources Officer. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Huval spent 10 years at Bank of America in multiple senior-level roles, including Human Resources executive and Chief Information Officer for Global Wealth & Investment Management, as well as Human Resources executive for both Global Treasury Services and Technology & Global Operations.
(9)Mr. Kane currently serves as Chief Financial Officer, having been elected to this position in June 2014. He also oversees the operations of Humana's primary care business. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kane spent nearly 17 years at Goldman, Sachs & Co. As a managing director, he was responsible for client relationships as well as for leading strategic and financing transactions for a number of companies in multiple industries.
(10)Dr. Shrank currently serves as Chief Medical and Corporate Affairs Officer, having been elected to this position in July 2019, from his previous role as Chief Medical Officer. Before joining Humana in April 2019, Dr. Shrank served as Chief Medical Officer, Insurance Services Division at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, from 2016-2019, where he oversaw approximately $9 billion in annual health care expenditures for approximately 3.5 million members in Medicare, Medicaid, behavioral health, Managed Long Term Social Supports and commercial lines of business. He also developed and evaluated population health programs to further advance the medical center’s mission as an integrated delivery and financing system. Prior to that, Dr. Shrank served as Senior Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer, and Chief Medical Officer of Provider Innovation at CVS Health from 2013 to 2016. Prior to joining CVS Health, Dr. Shrank served as Director, Research and Rapid-Cycle Evaluation Group, for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, part of CMS from 2011 to 2013, where he led the evaluation of all
20

payment and health system delivery reform programs and developed the rapid-cycle strategy to promote continuous quality improvement. Dr. Shrank began his career as a practicing physician with Brigham and Women’s Hospital in Boston and as an Assistant Professor at Harvard Medical School. His research at Harvard focused on improving the quality of prescribing and the use of chronic medications. He has published more than 200 papers on these topics.
(11)Mr. Ventura currently serves as Chief Legal Officer. He joined the Company in January 2009 and since then has held various positions of increasing responsibility in the Company's Law Department, including most recently, Senior Vice President, Associate General Counsel & Corporate Secretary from July 2017 until February 2019.
(12)Mr. Wheatley currently serves as Segment President, Retail, having held this position since March 2017. During his long-tenured career with the Company, Mr. Wheatley has served in a number of key leadership roles, including Vice President of Medicare Service Operations and President of the East Region, one of the Company’s key Medicare geographies.
(13)Ms. Zipperle currently serves as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, having held this position since December 2014. Ms. Zipperle previously served as the Vice President - Finance from January 2013 until her election to her current role, and as the Assistant Controller from January 1998 until January 2013.
Executive officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors and serve until their successors are elected or until resignation or removal. There are no family relationships among any of our executive officers.
