General
Howmet Aerospace Inc. (formerly known as Arconic Inc.) is a Delaware corporation with its principal office in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and the successor to Arconic Pennsylvania (as defined below) which was formed in 1888 and formerly known as Alcoa Inc. In this report, unless the context otherwise requires, “Howmet”, the “Company”, “we”, “us” and “our” refer to Howmet Aerospace Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
The Company’s Internet address is http://www.howmet.com. Howmet makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as well as proxy statements, as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company's website is included in this annual report on Form 10-K as an inactive textual reference only. The information on, or accessible through, the Company’s website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference in, this annual report on Form 10-K. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these reports at http://www.sec.gov.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains (and oral communications made by Howmet may contain) statements that relate to future events and expectations and, as such, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those containing such words as “anticipates,” “believes,” “could,” “estimates,” “expects,” “forecasts,” “goal,” “guidance,” “intends,” “may,” “outlook,” “plans,” “projects,” “seeks,” “sees,” “should,” “targets,” “will,” “would,” or other words of similar meaning. All statements that reflect Howmet’s expectations, assumptions or projections about the future, other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements, forecasts and outlook relating to the condition of end markets; future financial results, operating performance, or estimated or expected future capital expenditures; future strategic actions; and Howmet's strategies, outlook, and business and financial prospects. These statements reflect beliefs and assumptions that are based on Howmet’s perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments, as well as other factors Howmet believes are appropriate in the circumstances. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Although Howmet believes that the expectations reflected in any forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that these expectations will be attained and it is possible that actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements due to a variety of risks and uncertainties.
For a discussion of some of the specific factors that may cause Howmet’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements, see the following sections of this report: Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors), Part II, Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), including the disclosures under Segment Information and Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, and Note V to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8. Market projections are subject to the risks discussed in this report and other risks in the market. Howmet disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether in response to new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by applicable law.
Overview
Howmet is a leading global provider of advanced engineered solutions for the aerospace and transportation industries. The Company’s primary businesses focus on jet engine components, aerospace fastening systems, and titanium structural parts necessary for mission-critical performance and efficiency in aerospace and defense applications, as well as forged wheels for commercial transportation.
Howmet is a global company operating in 20 countries. Based upon the country where the point of shipment occurred, the United States and Europe generated 68% and 21%, respectively, of Howmet’s sales in 2020. In addition, Howmet has operating activities in numerous countries and regions outside the United States and Europe, including Canada, Mexico, China and Japan. Governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors, including inflation and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, affect the results of operations in countries with such operating activities.
Background
The Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction
Howmet Aerospace Inc. is the new name for Arconic Inc., following Arconic Inc.’s separation of its businesses on April 1, 2020 (the “Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction”) into two independent, publicly traded companies – Howmet Aerospace Inc. and Arconic Corporation. Following this separation, Howmet retains the Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered
1
Table of Contents
Structures, and Forged Wheels businesses; and Arconic Corporation holds the Rolled Products, Aluminum Extrusions, and Building and Construction Systems businesses. The Company trades under the symbol “HWM” on the New York Stock Exchange, and Arconic Corporation trades under the symbol “ARNC” on the New York Stock Exchange.
The Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction was effected by a distribution of all outstanding shares of Arconic Corporation common stock to the Company’s stockholders (the “Distribution of Arconic”). The Company’s stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2020 (the “2020 Record Date”) received one share of Arconic Corporation common stock for every four shares of the Company’s common stock held as of the 2020 Record Date. The Company did not issue fractional shares of Arconic Corporation common stock in the Distribution of Arconic. Instead, each stockholder otherwise entitled to receive a fractional share of Arconic Corporation common stock received cash in lieu of fractional shares.
In connection with the Arconic Inc. Separation Transaction, Howmet and Arconic Corporation entered into several agreements that govern the relationship of the parties following the separation, including the following: Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement, certain Patent, Know-How and Trade Secret License Agreements, certain Trademark License Agreements, Raw Material Supply Agreements, Second Supplemental Tax and Project Certificate and Agreement, and Lease and Property Management Agreement.
The 2017 Reincorporation of Howmet (then known as Arconic Inc.)
On December 31, 2017 (the “Effective Date”), Arconic Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (“Arconic Pennsylvania”), effected the change of Arconic Pennsylvania’s jurisdiction of incorporation from Pennsylvania to Delaware (the “Reincorporation”) by merging (the “Reincorporation Merger”) with a direct wholly owned Delaware subsidiary, Arconic Inc. (in this section, “Arconic Delaware” or, following the Reincorporation, the “Company”), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 12, 2017, by and between Arconic Pennsylvania and Arconic Delaware. Arconic Pennsylvania shareholders approved the Reincorporation Merger to effect the Reincorporation at a Special Meeting of Shareholders held on November 30, 2017. As a result of the Reincorporation, (i) Arconic Pennsylvania ceased to exist, (ii) Arconic Delaware automatically inherited the reporting obligations of Arconic Pennsylvania under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and (iii) Arconic Delaware is deemed to be the successor issuer to Arconic Pennsylvania.
The common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Arconic Pennsylvania (the “Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock”) was listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange and traded under the symbol “ARNC.” As of the Effective Date, this symbol, without interruption, represented shares of common stock, par value $1.00 per share, of Arconic Delaware (the “Arconic Delaware Common Stock”). There was no change in the Exchange Act File Number assigned by the SEC as a result of the Reincorporation.
As of the Effective Date, the rights of the Company’s stockholders began to be governed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation of Arconic Delaware and the Bylaws of Arconic Delaware.
Other than the change in corporate domicile, the Reincorporation did not result in any change in the business, physical location, management, financial condition or number of authorized shares of the Company, nor did it result in any change in location of its current employees, including management. On the Effective Date, (i) the directors and officers of Arconic Pennsylvania prior to the Reincorporation continued as the directors and officers of Arconic Delaware after the Reincorporation, (ii) each outstanding share of Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock was automatically converted into one share of Arconic Delaware Common Stock, (iii) each outstanding share of Serial Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, of Arconic Pennsylvania was automatically converted into one share of Serial Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, of Arconic Delaware and (iv) all of Arconic Pennsylvania’s employee benefit and compensation plans immediately prior to the Reincorporation were continued by Arconic Delaware, and each outstanding equity award and notional share unit relating to shares of Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock was converted into an equity award or notional share unit, as applicable, relating to an equivalent number of shares of Arconic Delaware Common Stock on the same terms and subject to the same conditions. Beginning on the Effective Date, each certificate representing Arconic Pennsylvania Common Stock or Arconic Pennsylvania Preferred Stock was deemed for all corporate purposes to evidence ownership of Arconic Delaware Common Stock or Arconic Delaware Preferred Stock, as applicable. The Company’s stockholders may, but are not required to, exchange their stock certificates as a result of the Reincorporation.
The Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction
On November 1, 2016, Alcoa Inc. completed the separation of its business into two independent, publicly traded companies (the “Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction”) – Arconic Inc. (the new name for Alcoa Inc. and which, through the transactions described above, later became Howmet Aerospace Inc.) and Alcoa Corporation. Following the Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction, the Company retained the Global Rolled Products (other than the rolling mill at the Warrick, Indiana operations and the 25.1% ownership stake in the Ma’aden Rolling Company), the Engineered Products and Solutions and the Transportation and Construction Solutions segments. Alcoa Corporation comprised the Alumina and Primary Metals segments,
2
Table of Contents
the rolling mill at the Warrick, Indiana operations, and the 25.1% stake in the Ma’aden Rolling Company in Saudi Arabia previously held by the Company.
The Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction was effected by a pro rata distribution of 80.1% of the outstanding shares of Alcoa Corporation common stock to the Company’s shareholders (the “Distribution of Alcoa”). The Company’s shareholders of record as of the close of business on October 20, 2016 (the “2016 Record Date”) received one share of Alcoa Corporation common stock for every three shares of the Company’s common stock held as of the 2016 Record Date. The Company did not issue fractional shares of Alcoa Corporation common stock in the Distribution of Alcoa. Instead, each shareholder otherwise entitled to receive a fractional share of Alcoa Corporation common stock received cash in lieu of fractional shares.
The Company distributed 146,159,428 shares of common stock of Alcoa Corporation in the Distribution of Alcoa and retained 36,311,767 shares, or approximately 19.9%, of the common stock of Alcoa Corporation immediately following the Distribution of Alcoa. During 2017, the Company disposed all of its retained interest in Alcoa Corporation.
As a result of the Distribution of Alcoa, Alcoa Corporation became an independent public company trading under the symbol “AA” on the New York Stock Exchange, and the Company traded under the symbol “ARNC” on the New York Stock Exchange.
On October 31, 2016, in connection with the Alcoa Inc. Separation Transaction, Arconic Inc. entered into several agreements with Alcoa Corporation or its subsidiaries that govern the relationship of the parties following the Distribution of Alcoa, including the following: Separation and Distribution Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement, and certain Patent, Know-How, Trade Secret License and Trademark License Agreements.
Description of the Business
The Company produces products that are used primarily in the aerospace (commercial and defense), commercial transportation, and industrial and other end markets. Such products include fastening systems (titanium, steel, and nickel superalloys), seamless rolled rings (mostly nickel superalloys); investment castings (nickel superalloys, titanium, and aluminum), including airfoils and structural parts; forged jet engine components (e.g., jet engine disks); machined and forged aircraft parts (titanium and aluminum); and forged aluminum commercial vehicle wheels, all of which are sold directly to customers and/or through distributors.
Aerospace (Commercial and Defense) End Market. Howmet’s largest end market is aerospace, which represented approximately 69% of the Company’s revenue in 2020. The Company produces a range of high performance multi-materials, highly engineered products, and vertically integrated machined solutions for aero engines and airframe structures, ranging from investment castings, advanced coatings, seamless rings, forgings, titanium extrusions, and titanium mill products, to fasteners that hold aircraft together. Wingtip to wingtip, nose to tail, Howmet can produce more than 90% of all structural and rotating aero engine components. Modernization of the commercial and defense platforms is driven by an array of challenging performance requirements. With its precision engineering, materials science expertise and advanced manufacturing processes, Howmet aims to help its customers achieve greater fuel economies, reduced emissions, passenger comfort and maintenance efficiencies.
Commercial Transportation End Market. The commercial transportation end market represented approximately 16% of the Company’s revenue in 2020. The Company invented the forged aluminum wheel in 1948, and continues to advance technology to deliver breakthrough solutions that make trucks and buses lighter, more fuel efficient and sharper-looking. Howmet’s forged aluminum wheels are a leading choice for commercial trucks and mass transportation vehicles because they can reduce weight and save fuel. The strength of the Company’s rivets, bolts and fasteners offers another light-weighting solution that delivers performance.
Industrial and Other End Markets. Industrial and other end markets include industrial gas turbines, oil and gas, and other industrials, which represented approximately 15% of the Company’s revenue in 2020.
Howmet has four reportable segments, which are organized by product on a worldwide basis: Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures and Forged Wheels.
Engine Products
Engine Products produces investment castings, including airfoils, and seamless rolled rings primarily for aircraft engines and industrial gas turbines. Engine Products produces rotating parts as well as structural parts. Engine Products principally serves the commercial and defense aerospace as well as industrial gas turbine end markets.
Fastening Systems
Fastening Systems produces aerospace and industrial fasteners, latches, bearings, fluid fittings and installation tools. A leading producer of highly engineered aerospace fasteners with a broad range of fastening systems, the segment also supplies the commercial transportation, renewable, and material handling industries. The business’s high-tech, multi-material fastening
3
Table of Contents
systems are found nose to tail on commercial and military aircraft, as well as on jet engines, industrial gas turbines, automobiles, commercial transportation vehicles, wind turbines, solar power systems, and construction and industrial equipment.
Engineered Structures
Engineered Structures produces titanium ingots and mill products for aerospace and defense applications and is vertically integrated to produce titanium forgings, extrusions forming and machining services for airframe, wing, aero-engine, and landing gear components. Engineered Structures also produces aluminum forgings, nickel forgings, and aluminum machined components and assemblies for aerospace and defense applications. The principal end markets served by Engineered Structures are commercial aerospace, defense aerospace, and land and sea defense.
Forged Wheels
Forged Wheels manufactures forged aluminum truck, bus, and trailer wheels and related products for the commercial transportation end market globally. The Company’s portfolio of wheels is sold under the product brand name Alcoa® Wheels. Its Ultra ONE® Wheel with MagnaForce® alloy is the lightest portfolio of wheels on the market. The Company’s proprietary Dura-Bright® surface treatment is unmatched in appearance and corrosion protection.
For additional discussion of each segment's business, see “Results of Operations—Segment Information” in Part II, Item 7 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations) and Note D to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8.
Sales by End Market and Significant Customer Revenue
Sales by end markets for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, were:
For the Year Ended
December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Aerospace - Commercial	50 	%		59 	%		59 	%	Aerospace - Defense	19 	%		13 	%		11 	%	Commercial Transportation	16 	%		17 	%		18 	%	Industrial and Other	15 	%		11 	%		12 	% 
In 2020, General Electric Company, Raytheon Technologies Corporation and The Boeing Company represented approximately 11%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of the Company’s third-party sales. The loss of any such significant customer could have a material adverse effect on such businesses. See Part I, Item 1A (Risk Factors).
4
Table of Contents
The Company's Principal Facilities1
Country	 	Facility Location	 	Segment		Products	Australia	 	Oakleigh	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	Canada	 	
Georgetown, Ontario2
 	Engine Products		Aerospace Castings	 	 	Laval, Québec	 	Engine Products; Engineered Structures		Aerospace Castings and Machining	China	 	
Suzhou2
 	Engine Products; Fastening Systems; Forged Wheels		Fasteners, Rings and Forgings	France	 	Dives-sur-Mer	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings	 	 	Evron	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Specialty Castings	 	 	Gennevilliers	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings	 	 	Montbrison	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	
St. Cosme-en-Vairais2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Toulouse	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Us-par-Vigny	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	Germany	 	Bestwig	 	Engine Products		Aerospace Castings	 	 	Erwitte	 	Engine Products		
Machining of Aerospace Castings
 	 	
Hildesheim-Bavenstedt2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	
Kelkheim2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	Hungary	 	Nemesvámos	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Székesfehérvár	 	Engine Products; Forged Wheels		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Forgings	Japan	 	
JÔetsu City2
 	Forged Wheels		Forgings			Nomi		Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings	Mexico	 	
Ciudad Acuña2
 	Engine Products; Fastening Systems		Aerospace Castings/Rings and Fasteners			Monterrey		Forged Wheels		Forgings	Morocco	 	
Casablanca2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	United Kingdom	 	Ecclesfield	 	Engine Products		
Metal, Billets
 	 	
Exeter2
 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy	 	 	Glossop	 	Engine Products		
Metal, Billets
 	 	Ickles	 	Engine Products		
Metal, Billets
 	 	
Leicester2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Low Moor	 	Engineered Structures		Extrusions	 	 	
Redditch2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Telford	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Welwyn Garden City	 	Engineered Structures		Aerospace Formed Parts 

5
Table of Contents
Country	 	Facility Location	 	Segment		Products	United States	 	
Tucson, AZ2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	
Carson, CA2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	
City of Industry, CA2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Fontana, CA	 	Engine Products		Rings	 	 	
Fullerton, CA2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Rancho Cucamonga, CA	 	Engine Products		Rings	 	 	Sylmar, CA	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Torrance, CA	 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Branford, CT	 	Engine Products		Aerospace Coatings	 	 	Winsted, CT	 	Engine Products		Aerospace Machining	 	 	Savannah, GA	 	Engineered Structures		
Forgings, Disks
 	 	La Porte, IN	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings	 	 	Whitehall, MI	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Coatings, Titanium Alloy and Specialty Products	 	 	Washington, MO	 	Engineered Structures		Aerospace Formed Parts, Titanium Mill Products	 	 	Big Lake, MN	 	Engineered Structures		Aerospace Machining	 	 	New Brighton, MN	 	Engineered Structures		Aerospace Machining	 	 	Dover, NJ	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings and Alloy	 	 	Verdi, NV	 	Engine Products		Rings	 	 	
Kingston, NY2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Rochester, NY	 	Engine Products		Rings			Barberton, OH		Forged Wheels		Machining of Forgings	 	 	
Canton, OH2,3
 	Engineered Structures		Ferro-Titanium Alloys and Titanium Mill Products	 	 	Cleveland, OH	 	Engine Products; Engineered Structures; Forged Wheels		Forgings, Investment Casting Equipment, and Aerospace Components	 	 	Niles, OH	 	Engineered Structures		Titanium Mill Products	 	 	
Morristown, TN2
 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Ceramic Products	 	 	
Houston, TX2
 	Engineered Structures		Extrusions	 	 	
Waco, TX2
 	Fastening Systems		Fasteners	 	 	Wichita Falls, TX	 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings	 	 	
Hampton, VA2
 	Engine Products		Aerospace and Industrial Gas Turbine Castings	 	 	Martinsville, VA	 	Engineered Structures		Titanium Mill Products 
1Principal facilities are listed by location, with certain locations having more than one facility. The list in the above table does not include 20 locations that serve as sales and administrative offices, distribution centers or warehouses.
2Leased property or partially leased property.
3Canton Ferro-Titanium Alloys was sold on February 1, 2021.

6
Table of Contents
Sources and Availability of Raw Materials
Important raw materials purchased in 2020 for each of the Company’s reportable segments are listed below.

Engine Products
Fastening Systems
Engineered Structures
Forged Wheels
Ceramics
Aluminum Alloys
Energy
Energy
Cobalt
Energy
Nickel Alloys
Primary and Scrap Aluminum
Energy
Nickel Alloys and Stainless Steels
Primary Aluminum
Nickel
Steels
Titanium Scrap
Platinum
Titanium Alloys
Titanium Sponge
Titanium
Vanadium Alloys
 
Generally, raw materials are purchased from third-party suppliers under competitively priced supply contracts or bidding arrangements. The Company believes that the raw materials necessary to its business are and will continue to be available.
Patents, Trade Secrets and Trademarks
The Company believes that its domestic and international patent, trade secret and trademark assets provide it with a significant competitive advantage. The Company’s rights under its patents, as well as the products made and sold under them, are important to the Company as a whole and, to varying degrees, important to each business segment. The patents owned by Howmet generally concern particular products, manufacturing equipment or techniques. Howmet’s business as a whole is not, however, materially dependent on any single patent, trade secret or trademark. As a result of product development and technological advancement, the Company continues to pursue patent protection in jurisdictions throughout the world. As of the end of 2020, the Company’s worldwide patent portfolio consists of approximately 959 granted patents and 183 pending patent applications.
The Company also has a significant number of trade secrets, mostly regarding manufacturing processes and material compositions that give many of its businesses important advantages in their markets. The Company continues to strive to improve those processes and generate new material compositions that provide additional benefits. With respect to domestic and international registered trademarks, the Company has many that have significant recognition within the markets that are served. Examples include the name Howmet® metal castings, Huck® fasteners, and Dura-Bright® wheels with easy-clean surface treatments. A significant trademark filing campaign for the names “Howmet” and “Howmet Aerospace” along with its “H” logo was initiated in 2019, in support of the corporate launch of Howmet Aerospace Inc. As of the end of 2020, the Company’s worldwide trademark portfolio consists of approximately 1,372 registered trademarks and 329 pending trademark applications. The Company’s rights under its trademarks are important to the Company as a whole and, to varying degrees, important to each business segment.
Competitive Conditions
The Company’s segments - Engine Products, Fastening Systems, Engineered Structures and Forged Wheels - are subject to substantial and intense competition in the markets they serve. Although Howmet believes its advanced technology, manufacturing processes and experience provide advantages to Howmet’s customers, such as high quality and superior mechanical properties that meet the Company’s customers’ most stringent requirements, many of the products Howmet makes can be produced by competitors using similar types of manufacturing processes as well as alternative forms of manufacturing. Despite intense competition, Howmet continues as a market leader in most of its principal markets. Several factors, including Howmet’s technological expertise, state-of-the-art capabilities, engaged employees and long-standing customer relationships, enable the Company to maintain its competitive position.
Principal competitors include Berkshire Hathaway Inc., through its 2016 acquisition of Precision Castparts Corporation and subsidiaries, for titanium and titanium-based alloys, precision forgings, seamless rolled rings, investment castings and aerospace fasteners; VSMPO (Russia) for titanium and titanium-based alloys and precision forgings; the High-Performance Materials & Components segment of Allegheny Technologies, Inc. for titanium and titanium-based alloys, precision forgings, and investment castings; Lisi Aerospace (France) for aerospace fasteners; and Aubert & Duval (part of Eramet Group in France) for precision forgings. Other competitors include Doncasters Group Ltd. (UK) and Consolidated Precision Products Corp. (owned by Warburg Pincus and Berkshire Partners) for investment castings; Weber Metals (part of Otto Fuchs) for precision forgings; and Forgital and Frisa (Mexico) for seamless rings.
Forged Wheels competes against aluminum and steel wheel suppliers in the commercial transportation industry under the product brand name Alcoa® Wheels for the major regions that it serves (Americas, Europe, Japan, China, and Australia). Its larger aluminum wheel competitors are Accuride Corporation, Speedline (member of the Ronal Group), Nippon Steel Corporation, Dicastal, Alux, and Wheels India Limited. In recent years, Forged Wheels has seen an increase in the number of
7
Table of Contents
aluminum wheel suppliers (both forged and cast aluminum wheels) from China, Taiwan, India and South Korea attempting to penetrate the global commercial transportation market.
Several of Howmet’s largest customers have captive superalloy furnaces for producing airfoil investment castings for their own use. Many other companies around the world also produce superalloy investment castings, and some of these companies currently compete with Howmet in the aerospace and other markets, while others are capable of competing with the Company should they choose to do so.
International competition in the investment castings, fasteners, rings and forgings markets may also increase in the future as a result of strategic alliances among engine original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), aero-structure prime contractors, and overseas companies, especially in developing markets, particularly where “offset” or “local content” requirements create purchase obligations with respect to products manufactured in or directed to a particular country.
Environmental Matters
Information relating to environmental matters is included in Note V to the Consolidated Financial Statements under the caption “Environmental Matters.” Capital expenditures for new or expanded facilities for environmental control for 2021 and 2022 are estimated to be less than $5 million per year.
Human Capital
To recruit, attract, develop and retain world-class talent, the Company has created a culture that embraces diversity, drives inclusion, and empowers and engages our employees.
Training and Development
The Company offers an integrated approach, enabling our employees to own their development and create rewarding careers that draw on their aptitudes and support their ambitions. We provide learning and development opportunities and equip our managers to provide ongoing coaching and feedback, so employees maximize their performance and potential, delivering success for Howmet.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Events in 2020, particularly in the United States, underscored the importance and power of diversity, equity and inclusion ("DEI"). Howmet’s inclusive, respectful and values-based company culture fosters inclusive work environments that leverage the diversity of backgrounds, experience and thought within our organization. The Company partners with key external organizations that focus on DEI, including the Human Rights Campaign, the National Hispanic Corporate Council and Diversity Best Practices, to review and continuously improve our DEI initiatives. We continue to seek additional partners to further eliminate discrimination and implicit bias from the Company’s policies and processes.
During 2020, we renewed our commitment to supporting our six employee resource groups ("ERGs") – Howmet African Heritage Network, Howmet Hispanic Network, Howmet Next Generation Network, Howmet Pride Network, Howmet Veterans Network and Howmet Women’s Network. The ERGs provide workplace networks for employees who have shared characteristics, special interests or life experiences. They offer a conduit to professional development, strengthen business impact internally and externally, and promote commitments to a diverse workplace. During 2020, the ERGs provided a positive way for the Company to direct dedicated company resources toward employee education, community building and social impact initiatives.
The Company also provided diversity awareness training on implicit bias and added inclusion to our leadership competency development in 2020.
Health and Safety
Howmet’s strong health and safety culture empowers our employees and contractors to take personal responsibility for their actions and the safety of their coworkers. This culture is supported by internal policies, standards, rules and procedures that clearly articulate our stringent requirements for working safely in all of our facilities worldwide. The Company embeds annual health and safety goals and objectives into its operating plans to progress against our ultimate goal of zero incidents. We prioritize our risk management processes toward the prevention of fatality and serious injury potential to focus on the hazards that have the potential for life-altering outcomes.
COVID-19 represented the biggest health challenge in the history of our Company, impacting our employees, suppliers and customers. This adverse situation became a unifying moment, as our employees worked tirelessly to establish internal and external programs and protocols to protect our people and processes, which were deemed essential for the aerospace, defense and transportation industries. Through our pandemic deployment system, the Company readied our plants around the world with a comprehensive toolbox based on risk. We structured our location pandemic programs around entry screening, self- assessment of symptoms, hygiene, masks, social distancing and robust implementation of tracing and quarantine protocols.
8
Table of Contents
Special pandemic-related policies for leave and alternative schedules were put in place to incentivize staying at home when sick. In addition, for employees who could meet their work commitments remotely, we provided resources and equipment to enable them to work from home. Access to mental health and resilience support was communicated and made available through our employee assistance partners.
Employees
Total worldwide employment at the end of 2020 was approximately 19,700 employees in 24 countries. Many, but less than 50%, of these employees are represented by labor unions. The Company believes that relations with its employees and any applicable union representatives generally are good.
There are nine collective bargaining agreements in the United States with varying expiration dates. In the United States, the largest collective bargaining agreement is the agreement between Howmet and the United Autoworkers ("UAW") at our Whitehall, Michigan location. The Whitehall UAW agreement covers approximately 1,000 employees; the current agreement expires on March 31, 2023. In addition to the employees covered by the Whitehall UAW agreement, approximately 1,600 other employees in the United States are also represented by labor unions.
On a regional basis, collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates cover employees in Europe, North America, South America, and Asia.
Executive Officers of the Registrant
The names, ages, positions and areas of responsibility of the executive officers of the Company as of February 16, 2021 are listed below. The Company’s executive officers are elected or appointed to serve until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors (held in conjunction with the annual meeting of shareholders), except in the case of earlier death, retirement, resignation or removal.
Ken Giacobbe, 55, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Giacobbe was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Howmet effective November 1, 2016. Mr. Giacobbe joined Howmet in 2004 as Vice President of Finance for Global Extruded Products, part of Alcoa Forgings and Extrusions. He then served as Vice President of Finance for the Company’s Building and Construction Systems business from 2008 until 2011. In 2011, he assumed the role of Group Controller for the Engineered Products and Solutions segment. From January 2013 until October 2016, Mr. Giacobbe served as Chief Financial Officer of the Engineered Products and Solutions segment. Before joining Howmet, Mr. Giacobbe held senior finance roles at Avaya and Lucent Technologies.
Neil E. Marchuk, 63, Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Marchuk was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Howmet effective March 1, 2019. Prior to joining Howmet, from January 2016 to February 2019, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer at Adient, an automotive manufacturer. From July 2006 to May 2015, Mr. Marchuk was Executive Vice President of Human Resource at TRW Automotive, and served as TRW’s Vice President, Human Resources from September 2004 to July 2006. Prior to joining TRW, from December 2001 to August 2004, Mr. Marchuk was Director Corporate Human Resources for E.I. Du Pont De Nemours and Company (“E.I. Du Pont”). From September 1999 to November 2001, Mr. Marchuk was Director Global HR Delivery for E.I. Du Pont. From February 1999 to August 1999, Mr. Marchuk served E.I. Du Pont as its Global HR Director Global Services Division.
Paul Myron, 54, Vice President and Controller. Mr. Myron was elected Vice President and Controller of Howmet effective November 1, 2016. Mr. Myron joined Howmet as a systems analyst in Pittsburgh and in 1992 relocated to the Company’s Davenport, Iowa facility as a product accountant. He served in numerous financial management positions from 1995 until 2000 when he was named Commercial Manager and Controller for the Atlantic division of the Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals business. In 2002, Mr. Myron was appointed Vice President of Finance, Alcoa Primary Metals and later became Vice President of Finance, Alcoa World Alumina and Chemicals. In 2005 Mr. Myron was named Director of Financial Planning and Analysis, accountable for the Company’s financial planning, analysis, and reporting worldwide. In February 2012, he became Director of Finance Initiatives for the Engineered Products and Solutions segment, overseeing specific financial initiatives and projects within the group. From July 2012 until his most recent appointment, Mr. Myron served as Vice President, Finance and Business Excellence for the Arconic Power and Propulsion business.
Tolga I. Oal, 49, Co-Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Oal was appointed Co-Chief Executive Officer of Howmet effective April 1, 2020. He served as President of Arconic Engineered Structures from May 2019 to April 2020. Prior to joining Howmet, Mr. Oal held leadership roles as President Driveline, President Americas and Senior Vice President Purchasing for American Axle & Manufacturing in Detroit, Michigan from September 2015 to April 2019. From June 2008 to September 2015, Mr. Oal held several leadership positions at TRW Automotive, including Vice President and General Manager of the Global Electronics Business Unit. Prior to his experience at TRW, Mr. Oal spent several years at Siemens VDO Automotive in Europe and the United States.
9
Table of Contents
John C. Plant, 67, Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Plant was appointed Co-Chief Executive Officer of Howmet effective April 1, 2020. He was the Company’s Chief Executive Officer from February 6, 2019 to April 1, 2020. He has served as Howmet's Chairman since October 2017 and as a member of the Board since February 2016. Mr. Plant previously served as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of TRW Automotive from 2011 to 2015, and as its President and Chief Executive Officer from 2003 to 2011. TRW Automotive was acquired by ZF Friedrichshafen AG in May 2015. Mr. Plant was a co-member of the Chief Executive Office of TRW Inc. from 2001 to 2003 and an Executive Vice President of TRW from the company's 1999 acquisition of Lucas Varity to 2003. Prior to TRW, Mr. Plant was President of Lucas Varity Automotive and managing director of the Electrical and Electronics division from 1991 through 1997.
Katherine H. Ramundo, 53, Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary. Ms. Ramundo was elected Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of Howmet effective November 1, 2016. Prior to joining Howmet, from January 2013 through August 2015, she was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of ANN INC., the parent company of ANN TAYLOR and LOFT brands, based in New York. Prior to ANN INC., she served as Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary at Colgate-Palmolive, where she held various legal roles from November 1997 to January 2013. She began her career as a litigator in New York, practicing at major law firms, including Cravath, Swaine & Moore and Sidley & Austin.
On January 13, 2021, Ms. Ramundo notified the Company of her intention to resign from the Company, effective as of February 19, 2021, to pursue another professional opportunity.