On February 1, 2021, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ("DuPont"), a wholly owned subsidiary of IFF merged with and into Nutrition & Biosciences, Inc. (“N&B”), a subsidiary of DuPont formed to hold the Nutrition and Biosciences business (the “N&B Business”, and such transaction, the "N&B Transaction"). The shares issued in the Merger represented approximately 55.4% of the common stock of IFF on a fully diluted basis, after giving effect to the Merger, as of February 1, 2021.
As a result of the N&B Transaction, and following our 2018 acquisition of Frutarom Industries Ltd., we have expanded our global leadership positions, which now include high-value ingredients and solutions in the Food & Beverage, Home & Personal Care and Health & Wellness markets, and across key Taste, Texture, Scent, Nutrition, Enzymes, Cultures, Soy Proteins, Pharmaceutical Excipients, Biocides and Probiotics categories.
As the information provided throughout this report is historical, it primarily reflects information about the Company as of December 31, 2020, without giving effect to the N&B Transaction or the N&B Business.
Sales in 2020 were approximately $5.1 billion, which management believes, made us the second largest company in the taste, scent, nutrition and specialty ingredient industry during the period. During the past few years, we have diversified our customer base and leveraged our technical expertise to significantly expand our global small and mid-sized customer base. Based on 2020 sales, approximately 35% were global consumer products companies and approximately 65% were small and mid-sized companies. During 2020, our 25 largest customers accounted for 39% of our sales. In 2020, no customer accounted for more than 10% of sales.
Our business is geographically diverse, with sales in the U.S. representing approximately 20% of sales in 2020. No other country represented more than 6% of sales.
In 2020, we operated our business across two segments: Taste and Scent. As a result of the N&B Transaction, our business is now organized in four business segments: Nourish (a combination of IFF’s Taste business with N&B’s Food & Beverage business), Scent, Health & Biosciences and Pharma Solutions.
Our Product Offerings
As of December 31, 2020, our business consisted of our Taste and Scent segments.
Taste
As a leading creator of flavor offerings, we help our customers deliver on the promise of delicious and healthy foods and drinks that appeal to consumers. While we are a global leader, our Taste business operates regionally in nature, with different formulas that reflect local taste preferences. Consequently, we manage our Taste business geographically, creating products in our regional creative centers which allows us to satisfy local taste preferences, while also helping to ensure regulatory compliance and production standards. We develop thousands of different flavors and taste offerings for our customers, most of which are tailor-made, and we continually develop new formulas to meet changing consumer preferences and customer needs.
Our Taste business comprises a diversified portfolio across flavor compounds, savory solutions, inclusions, nutrition and specialty ingredients and flavor ingredients.
Flavor Compounds. Our flavor compounds provide unique flavors that are ultimately used by our customers in savory products (soups, sauces, meat, fish, poultry, snacks, etc.), beverages (juice drinks, carbonated or flavored beverages, spirits, etc.), sweets (bakery products, candy, cereal, chewing gum, etc.) and dairy products (yogurt, ice cream, cheese, etc.).
Savory Solutions. Savory solutions include marinades or powder blends of flavors, natural colors, seasonings, functional ingredients and natural anti-oxidants that are primarily designed for the meat and fish industry.
Inclusions. Inclusions provide taste and texture by, among other things, combining flavorings with fruit, vegetables and other natural ingredients for a wide range of food products, such as health snacks, baked goods, cereals, pastries, ice cream and other dairy products.
Nutrition and Specialty Ingredients. Our nutrition and specialty ingredients primarily consist of natural health ingredients, natural food protection, natural colors and flavor ingredients. Natural health ingredients include natural ingredients derived from plants and herbs, which provide, or are perceived as providing, health benefits. These ingredients are used in dietary supplements, functional food, infant and elderly nutrition, cosmetics, personal care and other over-the-counter products. Natural
3

food protection ingredients consist of natural antioxidants and anti-microbials used for natural food preservation and shelf life extension to beverages, cosmetic and healthcare products, and pet food and feed additives. These ingredients reduce the oxidative deterioration and/or microbiology load that leads to rancidity or loss of flavor, color, and nutritional value. Natural colors comprise a wide array of natural colors and fruit and vegetable concentrates for food, beverage and cosmetics.
Flavor Ingredients. The flavor ingredients market includes natural flavor extracts, specialty botanical extracts, distillates, essential oils, citrus products, aroma chemicals and natural gums and resins. Such ingredients are used for food, beverage and flavors, and are often sold directly to food and beverage manufacturers who use them in producing consumer products.
Scent
Our global Scent business creates fragrance compounds and fragrance ingredients that are integral elements in the world’s finest perfumes and best-known household and personal care products. We believe our unique portfolio of natural and synthetic ingredients, global footprint, innovative technologies and know-how, deep consumer insight and customer intimacy make us a market leader in scent products.
Our Scent business is a vertically integrated operation, originating in our research facilities with the development of natural, synthetic and proprietary molecules and innovative delivery systems, progressing to our creative centers, application laboratories and consumer insight teams where our perfumers partner with our customers to create unique fragrance compounds for use in a variety of end-use products. We produce these products in our manufacturing facilities in a consistent, high-quality and cost-effective manner. We also produce cosmetic active and functional ingredients for use in cosmetics. By providing our fragrance development teams with an extensive portfolio of innovative, high-quality and effective ingredients to support their creativity, we are able to provide our customers with a unique identity for their brands. These ingredients or fragrance compounds can then be combined with our innovative delivery systems which are key differentiators in the growth of our consumer fragrance portfolio.
Fragrance Compounds. Fragrance compounds are unique and proprietary combinations of multiple ingredients that are ultimately used by our customers in their consumer goods. Our creative and commercial teams within fragrance compounds are organized into two broad categories, fine fragrances and consumer fragrances.
Our fine fragrances focus on perfumes and colognes. Our scientists and perfumers collaborate to develop new molecules, new natural extractions and innovative processes to create unique and inspiring fragrances. We have created some of the industry-leading fine fragrance classics as well as cutting-edge niche fragrances, as evidenced by the number of top sellers and award winners.
Our consumer fragrances include three end-use categories of products:
•Fabric Care, including laundry detergents, fabric softeners and specialty laundry products;
•Home Care, including household cleaners, dishwashing detergents and air fresheners; and
•Body Care, including personal wash, hair care and toiletries products.
Ingredients. Fragrance ingredients consist of natural and synthetic, and active and functional ingredients that are used internally and sold to third parties, including competitors, for use in the preparation of compounds. While the principal role of our fragrance ingredients facilities is to support our fragrance compounds business, we utilize our excess manufacturing capacity to manufacture and sell certain fragrance ingredients to third parties. We believe that this business allows us to leverage our fixed costs while maintaining the security of our supply for our perfumers and ultimately our customers. Fragrance ingredients available for sale to third parties include innovative ingredients that leverage our manufacturing experience as well as a limited amount of cost-competitive, commodity ingredients. Fragrance ingredients also include our cosmetic active and functional ingredients, which provide biologists and cosmetic chemists with innovative solutions to address cosmetic challenges such as skin aging and hair protection. With our separate fragrance and active and functional ingredients, plus additional botanicals and delivery systems, we believe we are a leader in the industry with the breadth of our product portfolio.
Organization in 2021, following the N&B Transaction
As a result of the N&B Transaction, we will now be organized in four segments: Nourish, Scent, Health & Biosciences, and Pharma Solutions.
The Nourish segment consists of most of our legacy Taste segment, N&B’s Food & Beverage division and the food protection business of N&B’s Health & Biosciences division. This segment comprises an innovative and broad portfolio of natural-based ingredients to enhance nutritional value, texture and functionality in a wide range of beverage, dairy, bakery, confectionery and culinary applications.
The Scent segment consists of our legacy Scent segment as well as, effective January 2, 2021, our Flavor Ingredients business.
4

The Health & Biosciences segment contains N&B’s Health & Biosciences division, with the exception of food protection, which is part of our Nourish division, as well as parts of our Nutrition and Specialty Ingredients offerings. This segment is the biotechnology driven portfolio of the N&B Business, where enzymes, food cultures, probiotics and specialty ingredients for food and non-food applications are developed and produced. The Health & Biosciences business includes a biotechnology-driven probiotics portfolio, that produces cultures for use in fermented foods such as yogurt, cheese and fermented beverages. It also uses industrial fermentation to produce enzymes and microorganisms that provide product and process performance benefits to household detergents, animal feed, ethanol production and brewing.
The Pharma Solutions segment consists of N&B’s Pharma Solutions division, which is one of the world’s largest producers of cellulosics and alginates-based pharma excipients, and is used to improve the functionality and delivery of active pharmaceutical ingredients, including controlled or modified drug release formulations, and enable the development of more effective pharma solutions.
Consumer Insights, Research and Product Development Process
The markets in which we compete require constant innovation to remain competitive. Consumer preferences tend to drive change in our markets, and as science evolves and sustainability continues to be a key factor to customers and consumers, we must continue to strengthen our research and development platforms and adapt our capabilities to provide differentiated products.
Consumer Insights
We believe that the first step to creating an innovative and unique product experience begins with gaining insight into the consumer and emerging trends. By developing a deep understanding of what consumers value and prefer through our consumer insight programs, we are better able to focus our research and development and creative efforts.
Our consumer science, insight and marketing teams interpret trends, monitor product launches, analyze quantitative market data and conduct numerous consumer interviews annually. Our sensory experts direct research programs exploring topics such as fragrance performance, the psychophysics of sensory perception (including chemesthetic properties such as warming, cooling and tingling), the genetic basis for flavor and fragrance preference and the effects of aromas on mood, performance, health and well-being.
Based on this information, we develop innovative and proprietary programs to evaluate potential products that enable us to understand the emotional connections between a prospective product and the consumer. We believe this ability to pinpoint the likelihood of a product’s success translates into stronger brand equity, resulting in increased returns and greater market share gains for our customers as well as for IFF.
Research and Development
We consider our research and development infrastructure to be one of our key competencies and critical to our ability to provide differentiated products to our customers. We focus and invest substantial resources in the research and development of new and innovative molecules, compounds, formulations and technologies and the application of these to our customers’ products. Using the knowledge gained from our consumer insights programs and business unit needs, we strategically focus our resources around key research and development platforms that address or anticipate consumer needs or preferences. By aligning our capabilities and resources to these platforms, we ensure the proper support and focus for each program so that they can be further developed and eventually accepted for commercial application.
As of December 31, 2020, we have been granted 430 patents in the United States, since 2000, and have 564 pending patent applications. We have developed many unique molecules and delivery systems for our customers that are used as the foundations of successful flavors and fragrances around the world.
We have historically conducted our principal basic research and development activities in Union Beach, New Jersey, where we employ scientists and application engineers who collaborate with our other research and development centers around the world, to support the:
•discovery of new materials;
•development of new technologies, such as delivery systems;
•creation of new compounds; and
•enhancement of existing ingredients and compounds.
5

Following the N&B Transaction, we expect that our principal basic research and development activities will continue in Union Beach, New Jersey, as well as in Wilmington, Delaware, Palo Alto, California, Barbrand, Denmark, and Leiden, The Netherlands. The N&B Business has strong product and application development pipelines built upon a global network that includes research and development, as well as regulatory and product stewardship capabilities.
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 2,600 people globally in research and development activities, including in key basic research and development centers in Union Beach, New Jersey, Tilburg, The Netherlands, Neuilly and Grasse, France, and Nanjing, China.
Our ingredients research program discovers molecules found in natural substances and creates new molecules that are subsequently tested for their sensorial value. To broaden our offerings of natural, innovative and unique products, we have established a number of collaborations with research institutions and other companies throughout the world. We may also consider acquiring companies that could provide access to new technologies.
The development of new and customized flavor and fragrance compounds is a complex process calling upon the combined knowledge of our scientists, flavorists and perfumers. Scientists from various disciplines work in project teams with flavorists and perfumers to develop flavor and fragrance compounds with consumer preferred performance characteristics. The development of new flavor and fragrance compounds requires (i) an in-depth knowledge of the flavor and fragrance characteristics of the various ingredients we use, (ii) an understanding of how the many ingredients in a consumer product interact and (iii) the creation of controlled release and delivery systems to enhance flavor and fragrance performance. To facilitate this process, we have a scientific advisory board that provides external perspectives and independent feedback on our research and development and sustainability initiatives.
Creative Application
Through our global network of creative centers and application laboratories, we create or adapt the basic flavors or fragrances compounds that we have developed in the research and development process to commercialize for use in our customers’ consumer products. Our global creative teams consist of perfumers, fragrance evaluators and flavorists, as well as marketing, consumer science, consumer insights and technical application experts, from a wide range of cultures and nationalities. In close partnership with our customers’ product development groups, our creative teams create the sensory experiences that our customers are seeking in order to satisfy consumer demands in each of their respective markets.
New flavor and fragrance development is driven by a variety of sources including requests from our customers, who are in need of specific flavors and fragrances for use in a new or modified consumer product, or as a result of internal initiatives stemming from our consumer insights program. Our product development team works in partnership with our scientists and researchers to optimize the consumer appeal and relevance of our flavors and fragrances. We use a collaborative process between our researchers, our product development team and our customers to perfect the flavors and fragrances so they are ready to be included in the final consumer product.
In addition to creating new flavors and fragrances, our researchers and product development teams advise customers on ways to improve their existing products by moderating or substituting current ingredients with more readily accessible or less expensive materials enhancing their yield. This often results in creating a better value proposition for our customers.
Our flavors and fragrances compound formulas are treated as trade secrets and remain our proprietary assets. Our business is not materially dependent upon any individual patent, trademark or license.
Supply Chain
We strive to provide our customers with consistent and quality products on a timely and cost-effective basis by managing all aspects of the supply chain, from raw material sourcing through manufacturing, quality assurance, regulatory compliance and distribution.
Procurement
In connection with the manufacture of compounds, we use natural ingredients and, primarily in our fragrance compounds, synthetic ingredients. As of December 31, 2020, we purchased approximately 124,500 different raw materials sourced from an extensive network of domestic and international suppliers and distributors.
The N&B Transaction will significantly increase the number of natural products that we will source, and the percentage of our ingredients that are natural or crop-related. Natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical products, as well as from animal and marine products, and commodity crops like wheat, corn and soy. They contain varying numbers of organic chemicals that are responsible for the fragrance, flavor, antioxidant properties and nutrition of the natural products. Natural products are purchased directly from farms or in processed and semi-processed forms. Some natural products are used in compounds in the state in which they are obtained and others are used after further processing. Natural products, together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes.
6

In order to ensure our supply of raw materials, achieve favorable pricing and provide timely transparency regarding inflationary trends to our customers, we continue to focus on:
•purchasing under contract with fixed or formula-based pricing for set time periods;
•entering into supplier relationships to gain access to supplies we would not otherwise have;
•implementing indexed pricing;
•reducing the complexity of our formulations;
•evaluating the profitability of whether to buy or make an ingredient; and
•sourcing from local countries with our own procurement professionals.
Manufacturing and Distribution
As of December 31, 2020, we had 242 manufacturing facilities, creative centers and application laboratories located in 47 different countries. Our major manufacturing facilities are located in the United States, The Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, Germany, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil, Mexico, Slovenia, China, India, and Singapore. Based on the regional nature of the Taste business and the logistical concerns regarding the fragile nature of transporting raw materials, we have typically established smaller manufacturing facilities in our local markets that are focused on local needs. Products within the Scent business are typically composed of compounds that are more stable and more transportable. Consequently, we have fewer manufacturing facilities within our Scent business, which produce compounds and ingredients for global distribution.
During the last few years, we undertook an initiative to optimize our global operations footprint to efficiently and cost-effectively deliver value to our global customers. During 2020, we announced the closure of eleven sites, of which five sites were in Europe, Africa and Middle East, four sites were in North America and two sites were in Greater Asia. As a continuation of this initiative, we expect to close approximately nine additional manufacturing sites by the end of 2021.
Our supply chain initiatives are focused on increasing capacity and investing in key technologies. Within our more mature markets, we tend to focus on consolidation and cost optimization as well as the implementation of new technologies. In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we develop relationships with third parties, including contract manufacturing organizations, that expand our access to the technologies, capabilities and capacity that we need to better serve our customers.
Sustainability
Over the past several years, we have redefined the way we envision sustainability. Moving from the traditional “take-make-dispose” model, we have embraced the circular economy model - one that is restorative and regenerative by design, which we believe is key in safeguarding the well-being of consumers, the health of our planet and the integrity of our business.
Customers and consumers of our products want to know if the products they are purchasing are responsibly sourced and produced in an environmentally conscious manner. Our sustainability vision and strategy are designed to address these global trends, and we are committed to making real progress happen at every opportunity. Following the N&B Transaction and the Frutarom acquisition, we have been working on evaluating our expanded environmental footprint and integrating and updating the N&B Business and Frutarom's sustainability practices to align them with legacy IFF sustainability practices.
In line with our purpose of applying science and creativity for a better world, our sustainability goals include:
•Reducing Our Environmental Footprint - we seek to leverage synergies to reduce our operational impact in ways that will mitigate climate change, conserve water and reduce waste.
•Strengthening Responsible Sourcing - we seek to ensure ethical practices in our supply chain, reduce impact to the environment and support workers and grower communities.
•Driving Sustainable Innovation - we seek to embed regenerative approaches and circular design principles into our products, processes and R&D pipeline.
•Embracing People and Communities - we seek to nurture an inclusive culture where we celebrate diversity and give back to the communities where we source and operate.
7

In 2020, we were named for the first time to the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, a family of best-in-class benchmarks for investors who recognize that sustainable business practices are critical to generating long-term shareholder value. Named to both the 2020 World Index and the North America Index, this distinction validates IFF’s leadership position in sustainability performance and underscores our commitment to executing on key environmental, social and governance (ESG) priorities. We were also awarded the 2020 EcoVadis platinum sustainability rating, a highly selective designation by EcoVadis, a leading platform for monitoring sustainability in global supply chains. This distinction places IFF in the top 1% of companies assessed in the areas of Environment, Labor & Human Rights, Ethics and Sustainable Procurement. In addition, among other distinctions, in 2019 we were named one of Barron’s 100 Most Sustainable Companies for the third consecutive year and listed in the FTSE4Good Index series as well as in the Euronext Vigeo World 120 Index for ESG performance.
Our commitment to good governance starts with our Board and Executive Committee and is supported by a strong governance framework. This framework is implemented through our organization with frequent communications and trainings on best practices in governance, risk management, business conduct, compliance and ethics. Moreover, we adhere to the highest standards of ethics, integrity, honesty and respect in our dealings with each other and our business partners. To maintain those relationships and our strong reputation, we have a robust program to ensure compliance with our Codes.
For more detailed information about our sustainability programs and performance, please refer to our annual sustainability report.
Governmental Regulation
We develop, produce and market our products in a number of jurisdictions around the world and are subject to federal, regional and local legislation and regulations in various countries. Our products, which among other industries, are intended for use in food, beverage, pharmaceutical industries, home and personal care are subject to strict quality and regulatory standards and environmental laws and regulations. We in turn are required to meet strict standards which, in recent years, have become increasingly stringent and affect both existing as well as new products. While the cost of compliance with such laws and regulations leads to higher overall capital expenditure, which can be significant in certain periods, we do not know of any material capital expenditures necessary to comply with such laws and regulations. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations and while the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty, compliance has not had, and is not expected to have a material adverse effect on capital expenditure, earnings or competitive position.
Our products and operations are subject to regulation by governmental agencies in each of the markets in which we operate. These agencies include (1) the Food and Drug Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate flavors, pharmaceutical excipients and other ingredients in consumer products, (2) the Environmental Protection Agency and equivalent international agencies that regulate our manufacturing facilities, as well as fragrance products (including encapsulation systems) and microbial products, (3) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and equivalent international agencies that regulate the working conditions in our manufacturing, research laboratories and creative centers, (4) local and international agencies that regulate trade and customs, (5) the Drug Enforcement Administration and other local or international agencies that regulate controlled chemicals that we use in our operations, (6) the Chemical Registration/Notification authorities that regulate chemicals that we use in, or transport to, the various countries in which we manufacture and/or market our products, and (7) the U.S. Department of Agriculture and equivalent international authorities with respect to, among other things, labeling of consumer products. We have seen an increase in registration and reporting requirements concerning the use of certain chemicals in a number of countries, such as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (“REACH”) regulations in the European Union, as well as similar regulations in other countries. The acquisitions of Frutarom and N&B will broaden the landscape of regulatory compliance requirements applicable to IFF.
In addition, we are subject to various rules relating to health, work safety and the environment at the local and international levels in the various countries in which we operate. Our manufacturing facilities throughout the world are subject to environmental standards relating to air emissions, sewage discharges, the use of hazardous materials, waste disposal practices and clean-up of existing environmental contamination. In recent years, there has been an increase in the stringency of environmental regulation and enforcement of environmental standards, and the costs of compliance have risen significantly, a trend we expect will continue in the future.
Competition
The markets for taste and scent are part of a larger market that supplies a wide variety of ingredients and compounds used in consumer products. The broader market includes functional foods and food additives, including seasonings, texturizers, spices, enzymes, certain food-related commodities, and fortified products, as well as nutritional ingredients, supplements and active cosmetic ingredients.
The global market for taste and scent has expanded, primarily as a result of an increase in demand for, and an increase in the variety of, consumer products containing flavors and fragrances.
8

The market for taste and scent is highly competitive. Based on annual sales, our main competitors consist of (1) other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan, Firmenich and Symrise, (2) mid-sized companies, (3) numerous regional and local manufacturers and (4) consumer product companies who may develop their own flavors or fragrances.
We believe that our ability to create products with the sustainability related attributes customers expect and compete successfully in the flavors and fragrances sub-market is based on:
•our in-depth understanding of consumers,
•vertical integration,
•innovation and technological advances from our research and development activities and our perfumers and flavorists,
•our ability to tailor products to customers’ needs,
•our ability to manufacture products on a global scale, and
•broad-based regulatory capabilities.
Large multi-national customers and, increasingly, mid-sized customers, may limit the number of their suppliers by placing some on “core lists,” giving them priority for development and production of their new or modified products. To compete more successfully, we must make continued investments in customer relationships and tailor our research and development efforts to anticipate customers’ needs, provide effective service and secure and maintain inclusion on these “core lists.”
Private label manufacturers, mostly medium-sized, local or small food manufacturers, constitute a growing segment in the flavor market. Over the last decade, with the strengthening of supermarket chains, online platforms and growing consumer price consciousness, consumption of private label products has grown at a faster rate than the brand food industry rate. We believe that new business opportunities will continue to arise from these clients as they are increasing their demand for products that are similar to existing products in the market, distinctive premium products, as well as more innovative products.
The global demand for functional foods, food additives, natural ingredients, nutritional ingredients and supplements and active cosmetic ingredients is also growing. With our recent acquisitions, we have expanded our offerings to include products within the functional food ingredient market, including ingredients focused on improving the health and wellness characteristics of a consumer good, the nutritional supplement and infant nutrition markets and the cosmetic actives market. While the three other large global flavor and fragrance manufacturers, Givaudan, Firmenich and Symrise, are active in these areas, we also compete with specialty chemical companies, other large multi-national companies and smaller regional and local participants that offer products that address these same needs.
Our People
The success of our business is built on our talented employees. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 13,700 employees worldwide, of whom approximately 2,000 are employed in the United States. With the completion of the N&B Transaction, we added more than 10,000 employees around the world, of whom approximately 30% are employed in the United States.
Culture and Values
Our culture is based on our five corporate values of empowerment, expertise, innovation, integrity and responsibility, and the expression of these values can be seen and felt throughout our history. Our employees appreciate that they contribute to products that touch and enhance the lives of millions of people around the world. In 2020, we implemented a high-performing culture employee engagement initiative designed to further underscore three key attributes of our culture: extreme accountability, bias toward action and effective collaboration. Throughout the year, we engaged with employees around the world as part of this initiative, including senior leader speakers, employee training, employee recognition programs and designating a large number of local employee ambassadors.
Leadership and Development
Our leadership development efforts empower employees to become forward-looking, inspiring and capable decision-makers, agents of change and great leaders. To cultivate our employees’ talent and build sustainable long-lasting careers at IFF, we offer specialized courses for employees globally by partnering with leading institutions and universities to help provide the latest training and development offerings at all levels. We also offer to our employees an extensive library of on-demand courses and materials on leadership, management and professional skills development. These offerings complement our talent acquisition strategy and organized and personalized feedback process, supported by industry-leading assessment tools.
9

Diversity and Inclusion
We believe that our differences make us great, as captured in our diversity and inclusion (D&I) vision: “Your Uniqueness Unleashes Our Potential.” To that end, we are dedicated to nurturing a truly inclusive and fair culture through the three pillars of our D&I mission:
•Our People embody the mosaic of the markets we serve and are empowered to transform the future
•Our Spirit nurtures an inclusive and fair culture where every voice is valued and heard
•Our World embraces diversity of thought and strives to do more good, creating a better future for all
In 2020, IFF developed and delivered a broad range of initiatives to support our D&I vision. As part of IFF’s journey to gender parity, the Company in 2020 underwent a rigorous global verification process and attained the Economic Dividends for Gender Equity (EDGE) certification at the MOVE level in 21 countries worldwide, which included an examination of our gender balance across our talent pipeline, gender pay equity, the effectiveness of our framework of policies and practices that ensure equitable career flows and our ability to foster an inclusive workplace culture for all employees. IFF also achieved 100% scores in the Disability Equality Index and achieved the title of best employer for LGBTQ+ employees rating with 100% scores in the Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index and the HRC Equidad Mexico. At the same time, employee resource groups known as “colleague communities” continue to thrive and grow with women@iff and pride@iff opening new chapters at our offices around the world and new colleague communities launching in 2020, such as Soul Black (Brazil), Black Excellence (USA), as well as SERVE, which supports veteran and first responder issues.
Occupational Health & Safety
Employee safety is one of the cornerstones of our business. Our occupational health and safety management system requires and encourages employees and supervised contractors at sites globally to uphold IFF’s protocols, report any incidents and suggest improvements that will increase the safety of work sites. Our safety management system in each country is based on local regulations. In the absence of country-specific requirements, IFF guidelines are implemented, which are based on U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards. To work toward a safer workplace, we have put in place a set of protocols and programs related to three areas of focus: (a) safety governance (setting and updating comprehensive safety policies and procedures), (b) safety training of employees on local requirements and IFF policies, and (c) safety culture characterized by awareness and communication. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been following the requirements of governmental authorities and taking additional preventative and protective measures to ensure the safety of our workforce. Moreover, we have developed return-to-workplace protocols and mandatory site guidelines to continue to protect the health and safety of employees at each location and to promote an orderly and phased return for employees who have been working from home.
Availability of Reports
We make available free of charge on or through the “Investors” link on our website, www.iff.com, all materials that we file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such materials with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. During the period covered by this Form 10-K, we made all such materials available through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing such materials with the SEC.
The SEC maintains an Internet website, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the SEC.
A copy of our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Conduct, and the charters of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors are posted on the “Investors” section of our website, www.iff.com.
Our principal executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019 (212-765-5500).
10

Executive Officers of Registrant
The current executive officers of the Company, as of February 22, 2021, are listed below.
Name		Age		Position	Andreas Fibig		58		Chair of the Board and Chief Executive Officer	Rustom Jilla		59		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	Kathy Fortmann		53		President, Nourish	Simon Herriott		57		President, Health & Biosciences	Nicolas Mirzayantz		58		President, Scent	Angela Strzelecki		54		President, Pharma Solutions	Francisco Fortanet		52		Executive Vice President, Global Operations Officer	Jennifer Johnson		46		Executive Vice President, General Counsel	Susana Suarez-Gonzalez		51		Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources and Diversity and Inclusion Officer	Vic Verma		52		Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer	Gregory Yep		55		Executive Vice President, Chief Research & Development, Global Integrated Solutions & Sustainability Officer	Michael DeVeau		40		Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations & Communication Officer	Etienne Laurent		55		Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Cost Synergies	Greg Soutendijk		52		Senior Vice President, Commercial Excellence 
Andreas Fibig has served as our Chair since December 2014 and Chief Executive Officer since September 2014. Mr. Fibig has been a member of our Board of Directors since 2011. Mr. Fibig joined us from Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, the pharmaceutical division of Bayer AG, where he served as President and Chairman of the Board of Management. Prior to Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals, Mr. Fibig held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., a research-based pharmaceutical company, including as Senior Vice President in the US Pharmaceutical Operations group and as President, Latin America, Africa and Middle East.
Rustom Jilla has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2020. From July 2015 to January 2020, Mr. Jilla served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MSC Industrial Direct Co., Inc., a US-listed distributor of metalworking and maintenance repair operations products. Prior to this, Mr. Jilla held group CFO roles with the Dematic Group, a global automated systems solutions provider, and with Ansell Limited, an Australian-listed global leader in protective solutions. Earlier, Mr. Jilla worked at PerkinElmer Inc. and The BOC Group in various finance & product management leadership roles, and he began his career with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. He is member of both the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, United Kingdom.
Kathy Fortmann has served as our President, Nourish since October 2020. From April 2020 to October 2020, Ms. Fortmann served as Global Head of Strategy & Cross-Fertilization for the Taste Division (now Nourish). Ms. Fortmann joined us from FrieslandCampina Ingredients at Royal FrieslandCampina, a multinational dairy cooperative, where she served as Business Group President from September 2017 to March 2020. Prior to that, Ms. Fortmann served as a member of the Cargill Executive Team from January 2014 to September 2017 and, earlier, as President, running Food Ingredients Businesses and setting up Cargill Global Business Services to provide IT, Human Resources, Finance, Transportation & Logistics, and Procurement services. Ms. Fortmann started her career as a chemical engineer with DuPont, where she held a number of positions in the U.S.A. and Europe.
Simon Herriott has served as President, Health & Biosciences since February 2021. From 2019 to February 2021, Mr. Herriott was Vice President and Global Business Director, Health & Biosciences for the N&B Business and from 2016 to 2019, he served as Global Business Director, Bioactives, Industrial Biosciences and Vice President, Danisco Inc. Mr. Herriott was employed by DuPont’s predecessor or formerly affiliated companies for 15 years and held a variety of roles, including Global Business Director, Biomaterials, Industrial Biosciences and leadership positions for various businesses that are currently part of DuPont’s Non-Core segment.
Nicolas Mirzayantz has served as our President, Scent since October 2018. Mr. Mirzayantz originally joined our Company in 1988 and was our Group President, Fragrances from January 2007 to October 2018. Mr. Mirzayantz has also served as a member of our Temporary Office of the Chief Executive Officer, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care and Regional Manager, North America, our Senior Vice President, Fine Fragrance and Beauty Care, and our Vice President Global Fragrance Business Development.
11

Angela Strzelecki has served as President, Pharma Solutions since February 2021. From 2019 to February 2021, Dr. Strzelecki was Platform Leader, Pharma Solutions for the N&B Business. From 2013 to 2019, Dr. Strzelecki held a variety of leadership positions at Dupont or its formerly affiliated companies, including Platform Leader, Pharma Solutions for the Nutrition and Health business, Planning Director – Corporate Planning and M&A , Global Business Director – Electronics & Communications, and the North America Business Director – Building Innovations.
Francisco Fortanet has served as our Executive Vice President, Global Operations Officer since August 2015. Prior to his current role, Mr. Fortanet held various leadership positions within the Company, including serving as Frutarom Integration lead and Senior Vice President, Operations, Vice President, Global Manufacturing Compounding, Vice President, Global Manufacturing, Regional Director of North America Operations, the Project Manager of a special project in Ireland, and as Plant Manager in Hazlet, New Jersey. Mr. Fortanet started his career in IFF-Mexico.
Jennifer Johnson has served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel since February 2021. From 2019 to February 2021, Dr. Johnson served as Associate General Counsel for the N&B Business. Dr. Johnson joined DuPont’s predecessor or formerly affiliated companies in 2013, where she led the legal team for DuPont’s former Industrial Biosciences business as Associate General Counsel and subsequently served as Assistant Chief Intellectual Property Counsel for Industrial Biosciences. Prior to joining DuPont, Dr. Johnson was a Partner at the law firm of Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner, L.L.P.
Susana Suarez-Gonzalez has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources and Diversity & Inclusion Officer since February 2021. From November 2016 to February 2021, Dr. Suarez-Gonzalez served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. From 2014 to 2016, Dr. Suarez-Gonzalez was Senior Vice President, Global Operations & Centers Expertise, Human Resources of Fluor Corporation, an engineering construction company. Dr. Suarez-Gonzalez began her career at Fluor Corporation in 1991, and during her 25 years with the company, she held various leadership positions across several business groups and functions including construction, marketing, sales, project engineering and human resources.
Vic Verma has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Information Officer since February 2021 and had previously served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer from 2016 to February 2021. Before joining the Company, Mr. Verma served as Vice President of Global Infrastructure Operations at American Express, a multinational financial services company. Prior to that, Mr. Verma held several other leadership positions at American Express as well as Vice President, Division CIO and management consulting roles with GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol Myers Squibb and PricewaterhouseCoopers.
Gregory Yep has served as our Executive Vice President, Chief Research & Development, Global Integrated Solutions & Sustainability Officer since February 2021. From June 2016 to February 2021, he serves as our Executive Vice President, Chief Research & Development and Sustainability Officer. From January 2015 to June 2016, Dr. Yep was Senior Vice President of Research, Development & Applications with The Kerry Group, a taste and nutrition company. Prior to The Kerry Group, Dr. Yep was Senior Vice President of R&D at PepsiCo, a multinational food, snack and beverage corporation, and was Global Vice President, Application Technologies at Givaudan Flavors and Fragrances, a multinational manufacturer of flavors, fragrances and active cosmetic ingredients. Earlier in his career, Dr. Yep was at McCormick & Company, a flavor, seasonings and spices company, where he held executive roles of increasing responsibility in food science.
Michael DeVeau has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Investor Relations & Communications Officer since February 2021 and had previously served as our Vice President, Investor Relations, Communications, and Chief of Staff from September 2014 to February 2021, as well as divisional Chief Financial Officer, Scent from 2018 to 2020 and head of Corporate Strategy from 2016 to 2018. Since joining the Company in 2009 as head of investor relations, Mr. DeVeau has held various roles of increasing scope and responsibility in communications, finance and strategy. Prior to joining the Company, he served in leadership positions in investor relations, finance and corporate development at PepsiCo, a multinational food, snack and beverage company. Mr. DeVeau began his career as an Equity Research Analyst at Citigroup Investment Research.
Etienne Laurent has served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy & Cost Synergies since February 2021. From 2014 to February 2021, Mr. Laurent served as Divisional CFO for the N&B Business. Earlier, he held a variety of positions at DuPont’s predecessor or formerly affiliated companies, including EMEA regional CFO, Leader of Sourcing and Logistics for the EMEA region, and multiple roles in Treasury, Controllership, Audit and FP&A.
Greg Soutendijk has served as Senior Vice President, Commercial Excellence since February 2021. From 2015 to February 2021, Mr. Soutendijk was Senior Vice President, Corporate Development. Mr. Soutendijk joined the Company in The Netherlands as Vice President, Global Fragrance Ingredient Sales in 2006 and subsequently served as Regional General Manager for Fragrances, Greater Asia and Regional General Manager, Greater Asia. Earlier in his career, Mr. Soutendijk held various positions at IFF and Bush Boake Allen, a company acquired by IFF. Prior to joining IFF, Mr. Soutendijk worked in Investment Banking for Credit Suisse Group.