BUSINESS OVERVIEW

We are the global leader in sequencing- and array-based solutions for genetic and genomic analysis. Our products and services serve customers in a wide range of markets, enabling the adoption of genomic solutions in research and clinical settings. We were incorporated in California in April 1998 and reincorporated in Delaware in July 2000. Our principal executive offices are located at 5200 Illumina Way, San Diego, California 92122. Our telephone number is (858) 202-4500.

Our customers include leading genomic research centers, academic institutions, government laboratories, and hospitals, as well as pharmaceutical, biotechnology, commercial molecular diagnostic laboratories, and consumer genomics companies.

Our portfolio of integrated sequencing and microarray systems, consumables, and analysis tools is designed to accelerate and simplify genetic analysis. This portfolio addresses the range of genomic complexity, price points, and throughput, enabling customers to select the best solution for their research or clinical application.

On September 20, 2020, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger to acquire GRAIL for total consideration of $8 billion, consisting of $3.5 billion in cash and $4.5 billion in shares of Illumina common stock, subject to a collar. In connection with the transaction, GRAIL stockholders will receive contingent value rights, which will entitle holders to receive future payments representing a pro rata portion of certain revenues each year for a 12-year period. This will reflect a 2.5% payment right to the first $1 billion of revenue each year for 12 years. Revenue above $1 billion each year will be subject to a 9% contingent payment right during this same period. We believe our acquisition of GRAIL will accelerate the adoption of NGS-based early multi-cancer detection tests, enhance our position in Clinical Genomics, and increase our directly accessible total addressable market. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including applicable regulatory approvals, and, subject to the satisfaction of such conditions, is expected to close in the second half of 2021. See note “4. Intangible Assets, Goodwill, and Acquisitions” for further details.

Genetics Primer

The instruction set for all living cells is encoded in deoxyribonucleic acid, or DNA. The complete set of DNA for any organism is referred to as its genome. DNA contains small regions called genes, which comprise a string of nucleotide bases labeled A, C, G, and T, representing adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine, respectively. These nucleotide bases occur in a precise order known as the DNA sequence. When a gene is “expressed,” a copy of a portion of its DNA sequence called messenger RNA (mRNA) is used as a template to direct the synthesis of a particular protein. Proteins, in turn, direct all cellular function. The illustration below is a simplified gene expression schematic.
ilmn-20210103_g2.gif
Variations among organisms are due, in large part, to differences in their DNA sequences. Changes can result from insertions, deletions, inversions, translocations, or duplications of nucleotide bases. These changes may result in certain genes becoming overexpressed (excessive protein production), underexpressed (reduced protein production), or silenced altogether, sometimes triggering changes in cellular function. The most common form of variation in humans is called a single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), which is a base change in a single position in a DNA
4
Table of Contents

sequence. Another type of variation, copy number variations (CNVs), occur when there are fewer or more copies of certain genes, segments of a gene, or stretches of DNA.

In humans, genetic variation accounts for many of the physical differences we see (e.g., height, hair, eye color, etc.). Genetic variations also can have medical consequences affecting disease susceptibility, including predisposition to complex genetic diseases such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and Alzheimer’s disease. They can affect individuals’ response to certain drug treatments, causing them to respond well, experience adverse side effects, or not respond at all.

Scientists are studying these variations and their consequences in humans, as well as in a broad range of animals, plants, and microorganisms. Such research takes place in government, university, pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and agrigenomics laboratories around the world, where scientists expand our knowledge of the biological functions essential for life. Beginning at the genetic level, our tools are used to elucidate the relationship between gene sequence and biological processes. Researchers who investigate human and non-human genetic variation to understand the mechanisms of disease are enabling the development of more effective diagnostics and therapeutics. They also provide greater insight into genetic variation in plants (e.g., food and biofuel crops) and animals (e.g., livestock and domestic), enabling improvements in crop yields and animal breeding programs.

By empowering genetic analysis and facilitating a deeper understanding of genetic variation and function, our tools advance disease research, drug development, and the creation of molecular diagnostic tests. We believe that this will trigger a fundamental shift in the practice of medicine and health care, and that the increased emphasis on preventive and predictive molecular medicine will usher in the era of precision health care.

Our Principal Markets

We target the markets and customers outlined below.

Life Sciences

Historically, our core business has been in the life sciences research market. This includes laboratories associated with universities, research centers, and government institutions, along with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. Researchers at these institutions use our products and services for basic and translational research across a spectrum of scientific applications, including targeted, exome, and whole-genome sequencing; genetic variation; gene expression; epigenetics; and metagenomics. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies are being adopted due to their ability to cost-effectively sequence large sample sizes quickly and accurately, generating vast amounts of high-quality data. Both private and public funding drive this research, along with global initiatives to characterize genetic variation.

Our products also serve various applied markets including consumer genomics and agrigenomics. For example, in consumer genomics, our customers use our technologies to provide personalized genetic data and analysis to individual consumers. In agrigenomics, government and corporate researchers use our products and services to explore the genetic and biological basis for productivity and nutritional constitution in crops and livestock. Researchers can identify natural and novel genomic variation and deploy genome-wide marker-based applications to accelerate breeding and production of healthier and higher-yielding crops and livestock.

Clinical Genomics

We are focused on enabling translational and clinical markets through the introduction of best-in-class sequencing technology. Further, we are developing sample-to-answer solutions to catalyze adoption in the clinical setting, including in reproductive and genetic health and oncology. In reproductive health, our primary focus is driving noninvasive prenatal testing (NIPT) adoption globally through our technology, which identifies fetal chromosomal abnormalities by analyzing cell-free DNA in maternal blood. Our NGS technology is also accelerating rare and undiagnosed disease research to discover the genetic causes of inherited disorders by assessing many genes simultaneously. Using NGS can reduce costs compared to traditional methods of disease diagnosis, which are often expensive and inconclusive while requiring extensive testing.

Cancer is a disease of the genome, and the goal of cancer genomics is to identify genomic changes that transform a normal cell into a cancerous one. Understanding these genomic changes will improve diagnostic accuracy, increase understanding of the prognosis, and enable oncologists to target therapies to individuals. Customers in the translational and clinical oncology markets use our products to perform research that may help identify
5
Table of Contents

individuals who are genetically predisposed to cancer and to identify molecular changes in a tumor. We believe that circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) will become an important clinical tool for managing oncology patients during all stages of tumor progression. Our technology is being used to research the implications of ctDNA in treatment determination, treatment monitoring, minimal residual disease, and asymptomatic screening. For example, GRAIL has developed a blood-based test for early-stage cancer detection that is enabled by our sequencing technology.

Our Principal Products, Services, and Technologies

Our unique technology platforms support the scale of experimentation necessary for population-scale studies, genome-wide discovery, target selection, and validation studies (see Figure 1 below). Customers use our products to analyze the genome at all levels of complexity, from targeted panels to whole-genome sequencing. A large and dynamic Illumina user community has published tens of thousands of customer-authored scientific papers using our technologies. Through rapid innovation, we are changing the economics of genetic research, enabling projects that were previously considered impossible, and supporting clinical advances towards precision medicine.

Most of our product sales consist of instruments and consumables, which include reagents, flow cells, and microarrays, based on our proprietary technologies. We also perform various services for our customers. In 2020, 2019, and 2018, instrument sales represented 13%, 15%, and 17%, respectively, of total revenue; consumable sales represented 71%, 68%, and 65%, respectively, of total revenue; and services represented 16%, 17%, and 18%, respectively, of total revenue.

Figure 1: Illumina Platform Overview:

ilmn-20210103_g3.jpg
Sequencing

DNA sequencing is the process of determining the order of nucleotide bases (A, C, G, or T) in a DNA sample. Our portfolio of sequencing platforms represents a family of systems that we believe set the standard for productivity, cost-effectiveness, and accuracy among NGS technologies. Customers use our platforms to perform whole-genome, de novo, exome and RNA sequencing, and targeted resequencing of specific gene regions and genes.

Whole-genome sequencing determines the complete DNA sequence of an organism. In de novo sequencing, the goal is to sequence and assemble the genome of that sample without using information from prior sequencing of that species. In targeted resequencing, a portion of the sequence of an organism is compared to a standard or reference sequence from previously sequenced samples to identify genetic variation. Understanding the similarities and differences in DNA sequence between and within species helps us understand the function of the structures encoded in the DNA.

Our DNA sequencing technology is based on our proprietary reversible terminator-based sequencing chemistry, referred to as sequencing by synthesis (SBS) biochemistry. SBS tracks the addition of labeled nucleotides as the DNA chain is copied in a massively parallel fashion. Our SBS sequencing technology provides researchers with a
6
Table of Contents

broad range of applications and the ability to sequence even large mammalian genomes in a few days rather than weeks or years.

Our sequencing platforms can generate between 500 megabases (Mb) and 6.0 terabases (Tb) (equivalent to approximately 48 human genomes) of genomic data in a single run, depending on the instrument and application.

There are different price points per gigabase (Gb) for each instrument, and for different applications, which range from small-genome, amplicon, and targeted gene-panel sequencing to population-scale whole human genome sequencing. Since we launched our first sequencing system in 2007, our systems have reduced the cost of sequencing by a factor of more than 10,000. In addition, the sequencing time per Gb has dropped by a factor of approximately 12,000.

Our BaseSpace Informatics Suite cloud platform plays a critical role in supporting our sequencing applications. BaseSpace Informatics Suite integrates directly with our sequencing instruments, allowing customers to manage their biological sample and sequencing runs, process and analyze the raw genomic data, and derive meaningful results.  It facilitates data sharing, provides data-storage solutions and streamlines analysis through a growing number of applications developed by us and the bioinformatics community.

We recently launched Illumina Connected Analytics, an integrated bioinformatics solution that provides a comprehensive, private, cloud-based data platform that empowers customers to manage, analyze, and explore large volumes of multi-omic data in a secure, scalable, and flexible environment.

In 2020, 2019, and 2018, total sequencing revenue comprised 89%, 87%, and 83%, respectively, of total revenue.

Arrays

Arrays are used for a broad range of DNA and RNA analysis applications, including SNP genotyping, CNV analysis, gene expression analysis, and methylation analysis, and enable the detection of millions of known genetic markers on a single array. Arrays are the primary technology used in consumer genomics applications.

Our BeadArray technology combines microscopic beads and a substrate in a proprietary manufacturing process to produce arrays that can perform many assays simultaneously. This facilitates large-scale analysis of genetic variation and biological function in a unique, high-throughput, cost-effective, and flexible manner. Using our BeadArray technology, we achieve high-throughput analysis via a high density of test sites per array and the ability to format arrays in various configurations. To serve the needs of multiple markets and market segments, we can vary the size, shape, and format of the substrate into which the beads self-assemble and create specific bead types for different applications. Our iScan System and our NextSeq 550 System can be used to image arrays.

In 2020, 2019, and 2018, total array revenue comprised 11%, 13%, and 17%, respectively, of total revenue.

Consumables

We have developed various library preparation and sequencing kits to simplify workflows and accelerate analysis. Our sequencing applications include whole-genome sequencing kits, which sequence entire genomes of any size and complexity, and targeted resequencing kits, which can sequence exomes, specific genes, RNA or other genomic regions of interest. Our sequencing kits maximize the ability of our customers to characterize the target genome accurately and are sold in various configurations, addressing a wide range of applications.

Customers use our array-based genotyping consumables for a wide range of analyses, including diverse species, disease-related mutations, and genetic characteristics associated with cancer. Customers can select from a range of human, animal, and agriculturally relevant genome panels or create their own custom arrays to investigate millions of genetic markers targeting any species.

7
Table of Contents

Services

We provide whole-genome sequencing, genotyping, NIPT, and product support services. Human whole-genome sequencing services are provided through our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory. Using our services, customers can perform whole-genome sequencing projects and microarray projects (including large-scale genotyping studies and whole-genome association studies). We also provide NIPT services through our partner laboratories that direct samples to us on a test send-out basis in our CLIA-certified, CAP-accredited laboratory. In addition, we also offer support services to customers who have purchased our products.

Intellectual Property

We have an extensive intellectual property portfolio. As of January 12, 2021, we owned or had exclusive licenses to 901 issued U.S. patents and 650 pending U.S. patent applications, including 55 allowed applications that have not yet issued as patents. Our issued and pending patents cover various aspects of our arrays, assays, oligo synthesis, sequencing technology, instruments, digital microfluidics, software, bioinformatics, and chemical-detection technologies, and have terms that expire between 2021 and 2041. We continue to file new patent applications to protect the full range of our technologies. We have filed or have been granted counterparts for many of these patents and applications in foreign countries.

We protect our trade secrets, know-how, copyrights, and trademarks. Our success depends in part on obtaining patent protection for our products and processes, preserving trade secrets, patents, obtaining copyrights and trademarks, operating without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, and acquiring licenses for technology or products. In addition, we invest in technological innovation, and we seek beneficial licensing opportunities to develop and maintain our competitive position.

We are party to various exclusive and nonexclusive license agreements and other arrangements with third parties that grant us rights to use key aspects of our sequencing and array technologies, assay methods, chemical detection methods, reagent kits, and scanning equipment. We have additional nonexclusive license agreements with various third parties for other components of our products. In most cases, the agreements remain in effect over the term of the underlying patents, may be terminated at our request without further obligation, and require that we pay customary royalties.

Research and Development

We have historically made substantial investments in research and development. Our research and development efforts prioritize continuous innovation coupled with product evolution.

Research and development expense in 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $682 million, $647 million, and $623 million, respectively. We expect research and development expense to increase during 2021 to support business growth and continuing expansion in research and product-development efforts.

Marketing and Distribution

We market and distribute our products directly to customers in North America, Europe, Latin America, and the Asia-Pacific region. In addition, we sell through life-science distributors in certain markets within Europe, the Asia-Pacific region, Latin America, the Middle East, and Africa. We expect to continue increasing our sales and distribution resources during 2021 and beyond as we launch new products and expand our potential customer base.

Manufacturing

We manufacture sequencing and array platforms and reagent kits. In 2020, we continued to increase our manufacturing capacity, although we scaled manufacturing to meet lower levels of demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect to increase our manufacturing capacity again in 2021 to meet customer demand. To address increasing product complexity and volume, we continue to automate manufacturing processes to accelerate throughput and improve quality and yield. We are committed to providing medical devices and related services that consistently meet customer and applicable regulatory requirements. We adhere to access and safety standards required by federal, state, and local health ordinances, such as standards for the use, handling, and disposal of hazardous substances. Our key manufacturing and distribution facilities operate under a quality management system certified to ISO 13485.

8
Table of Contents

Raw Materials

Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies. Multiple commercial sources provide many of our components and supplies, but there are some raw materials and components that we obtain from single-source suppliers. To manage potential risks arising from single-source suppliers, we believe that, if necessary, we could redesign our products using alternative components or for use with alternative reagents or develop an internal supply capability. In addition, while we attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we purchase incremental inventory as circumstances warrant to protect our supply chain. If the capabilities of our suppliers and component manufacturers are limited or stopped, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, disasters, quality, regulatory, or other reasons, it could negatively impact our ability to manufacture our products.
Competition

Although we believe that our products and services provide significant advantages over products and services currently available from other sources, we expect continued intense competition. Our competitors offer products and services for sequencing, SNP genotyping, gene expression, and molecular diagnostics markets. In some cases, we compete for the resources our customers allocate for purchasing a wide range of sequencing and non-sequencing products used to analyze genetic variation and biological function, some of which are complementary or adjacent to our own but not directly competitive; in other cases, our products face direct competition as customers choose among sequencing and non-sequencing products that are designed to address the same use case or answer the same biological question. Some of our competitors have, or will have, substantially greater financial, technical, research, and other resources than we do, along with larger, more established marketing, sales, distribution, and service organizations. In addition, they may have greater name recognition than we do in the markets we address, and in some cases a larger installed base of systems. We expect new competitors to emerge and the intensity of competition to increase. To compete effectively, we must scale our organization and infrastructure appropriately and demonstrate that our products have superior throughput, cost, and accuracy.

Segment and Geographic Information

We have one reportable segment, Core Illumina, as of January 3, 2021, which relates to Illumina’s core operations. Prior to the Helix deconsolidation on April 25, 2019, our reportable segments included both Core Illumina and Helix.

We currently sell our products to a number of customers outside the United States, including customers in other areas of North America, Latin America, Europe, China, and the Asia-Pacific region. Shipments to customers outside the United States totaled $1,584 million, or 49%, of total revenue, in 2020, compared to $1,684 million, or 48%, and $1,554 million, or 47%, in 2019 and 2018, respectively. We consider the U.S. dollar to be the functional currency of our international operations due to the primary activities of our foreign subsidiaries. We expect that sales to international customers will continue to be an important and growing source of revenue. See note “1. Organization and Significant Accounting Policies” and note “2. Revenue” within the Consolidated Financial Statements section of this report for further information concerning our foreign and domestic operations.

Backlog

Our backlog was approximately $816 million and $980 million as of January 3, 2021 and December 29, 2019, respectively. Generally, our backlog consists of orders believed to be firm as of the balance sheet date. However, we may allow customers to make product substitutions as we launch new products. The timing of shipments depends on several factors, including agreed upon shipping schedules, which may span multiple quarters, and whether the product is catalog or custom. We expect approximately 90% of our backlog as of January 3, 2021, to be shipped in 2021, approximately 7% in 2022, and the remainder thereafter. Although we generally recognize revenue when control of our products and services is transferred to our customers, some customer contracts might require us to defer revenue recognition beyond the transfer of control.

9
Table of Contents

Properties

The following table summarizes the facilities we leased as of January 3, 2021, including the location and size of each principal facility, and their designated use. We believe our facilities are adequate for our current and near-term needs, and we will be able to locate additional facilities, as needed.
Location		Approximate Square Feet		Operation		Lease
Expiration Dates	San Diego, CA		1,249,000 			Office, Lab, Manufacturing, and Distribution		2025 – 2031	San Francisco Bay Area, CA		464,000 			Office, Lab, and Manufacturing		2025 – 2033	Singapore *		395,000 			Office, Lab, Manufacturing, and Distribution		2022 – 2025	Cambridge, United Kingdom		176,000 			Office, Lab, and Manufacturing		2024 – 2039	Madison, WI		133,000 			Office, Lab, and Manufacturing		2033 		China		55,000 			Office and Lab		2021 – 2025	Eindhoven, the Netherlands *		42,000 			Office and Distribution		2021 		Other		69,000 			Office		2021 – 2025 
________________
*Excludes approximately 295,000 square feet for which the leases do not commence until 2021 and beyond.

Human Capital

To continue as a leader in genomics we need to harness the world’s best talent and give them the opportunity to thrive. We are committed to attracting, retaining, developing, and supporting our people to enable everyone to fully contribute to our mission and deliver on the transformative power of genomics. Diversity is a competitive advantage that drives innovation in all that we do.

As of January 3, 2021, our global workforce was comprised of approximately 7,800 full time employees, 50 part time employees, and 1,500 temporary employees. The regional representation includes 4,900 in the Americas, 1,000 in EMEA, and 1,900 in APAC. Our global voluntary turnover rate for 2020 was 9%. Women comprised 43% of our global workforce and in 2020, 47% of global new hires were women. Based on self-identification data, our U.S. workforce is comprised of 52% minorities. We plan to disclose additional details on our diversity demographics and programming in our next Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report set to be published in April 2021.

Our key human capital objectives include: curate a culture of care; embed diversity, inclusion, and fairness in all we do; foster an environment where people feel Illumina is a great place to work for everyone; offer employees the resources and support they need to bring their personal best every day; invest and develop our people to create a deep and diverse pipeline; and steward our employee safety and wellness.

Additional information is included in our annual CSR Report (located on our website at www.illumina.com/csr). Information on our website, including the CSR Report, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report. Our April 2021 CSR Report is intended to be guided by the reporting frameworks of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and the Task Force for Climate related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).

Environmental Matters

As a global corporate citizen, we recognize the importance of the environment to a healthy, sustainable future for our business, our patients, and communities. We are committed to the protection of our employees and the environment with an approach to continuously strengthen our environmental stewardship. We believe that we are in material compliance with current applicable laws and regulations. However, we could be held liable for damages and fines should contamination of the environment or individual exposures to hazardous substances occur. In addition, we cannot predict how changes in these laws and regulations, or the development of new laws and regulations, will affect our business operations or the cost of compliance. In addition, climate change may impact our business by increasing operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, energy limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain. These potential risks are accounted for in our business planning, including investment in reducing energy and water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste production.
10
Table of Contents

Government Regulation

As we expand product lines to address the diagnosis of disease, regulation by governmental authorities in the United States and other countries will become an increasingly significant factor in development, testing, production, and marketing. Products that we develop in the molecular diagnostic markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices or in vitro diagnostic products (IVDs) by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. In the United States, certain of our products may require FDA clearance following a pre-market notification process, also known as a 510(k) clearance, or premarket approval (PMA) from the FDA. The usually shorter 510(k) clearance process, which we used for the FDA-cleared assays that are run on our FDA-regulated MiSeqDx instrument, generally takes from three to six months after submission, but it can take significantly longer. The longer PMA process, which we used for our FDA-cleared RAS panel that is also run on our MiSeqDx instrument, is typically much more costly and uncertain. It can take from 9 to 18 months after a complete filing, but it can take significantly longer and requires conducting clinical studies that are generally more extensive than those required for 510(k) clearance. All of the products that are currently regulated by the FDA as medical devices and IVDs are also subject to the FDA Quality System Regulation (QSR). Obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals, including the FDA quality system inspections that are required for PMA approval, can be expensive and may involve considerable delay.

In the U.S., the products we develop for oncology and non-invasive prenatal testing will be regulated by the PMA process. We cannot be certain which of our other planned molecular diagnostic products will be subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, or which of will need to go through the PMA process.

The regulatory approval process for such products may be significantly delayed, may be significantly more expensive than anticipated, and may conclude without such products being approved by the FDA. Without timely regulatory approval, we will not be able to launch or successfully commercialize such products, which would adversely affect our earnings and competitive position.

Changes to the current regulatory framework, including the imposition of additional or new regulations, could arise at any time during the development or marketing of our products. This may negatively affect our ability to obtain or maintain FDA or comparable regulatory clearance or approval of our products. In addition, regulatory agencies may introduce new requirements that may change the regulatory requirements for us or our customers, or both.

If our products labeled as “For Research Use Only,” or RUO, are used, or could be used, for the diagnosis of disease, the regulatory requirements related to marketing, selling, and supporting such products could be uncertain. This is true even if such use by our customers occurs without our consent. If the FDA or other regulatory authorities assert that any of our RUO products are subject to regulatory clearance or approval, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected.

Our products sold as medical devices or IVDs in Europe will be regulated under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive (98/79/EC). A new regulation, the in vitro Diagnostic Medical Devices Regulation (EU) 2017/746, the IVDR, has been released and will become fully enforceable in 2022. These regulations include requirements for both presentation and review of performance data and quality-system requirements.

Certain of our products are currently available through laboratories that are certified under the Clinical Laboratory Improvements Amendments (CLIA) of 1988. These products are commonly called “laboratory developed tests,” or LDTs. For a number of years, the FDA has exercised its regulatory enforcement discretion not to regulate LDTs as medical devices if created and used within a single laboratory. However, the FDA is continually reexamining this regulatory approach and changes to the agency’s handling of LDTs could impact our business in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. We cannot predict the nature or extent of the FDA's final guidance or regulation of LDTs, in general, or with respect to our or our customers’ LDTs, in particular.

Certification of CLIA laboratories includes standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, and quality control procedures. CLIA also mandates that, for high complexity labs such as ours, to operate as a lab, we must have an accreditation by an organization recognized by CLIA such as the College of Pathologists (CAP), which we have obtained and must maintain. If we were to lose our CLIA certification or CAP accreditation, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, state laboratory licensing and inspection requirements may also apply to our products, which, in some cases, are more stringent than CLIA requirements.

