GENERAL
International Paper Company (the "Company" or "International Paper", which may also be referred to as "we" or "us") is a global producer of renewable fiber-based packaging, pulp and paper products with manufacturing operations in North America, Latin America, Europe, North Africa and Russia. We are a New York corporation, incorporated in 1941 as the successor to the New York corporation of the same name organized in 1898. You can learn more about us by visiting our website at www.internationalpaper.com.
In the United States, at December 31, 2020, the Company operated 27 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 162 converting and packaging plants, 16 recycling plants and three bag facilities. Production facilities at December 31, 2020 in Canada, Europe, North Africa and Latin America included 11 pulp, paper and packaging mills, 39 converting and packaging plants, and two recycling plants. We operate a printing and packaging products distribution business principally through six branches in Asia. At December 31, 2020, we owned or managed approximately 314,000 acres of forestland in Brazil and had, through licenses and forest management agreements, harvesting rights on government-owned forestlands in Russia. Substantially all of our businesses have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, cycles relating to industry capacity and general economic conditions.
For management and financial reporting purposes, our businesses are separated into three segments: Industrial Packaging; Global Cellulose Fibers; and Printing Papers.
A description of these business segments can be found on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The Company’s equity interests in Ilim S.A. ("Ilim") and Graphic Packaging International Partners, LLC ("GPIP") are also separate reportable industry segments.
On December 3, 2020, we announced a plan to pursue a spin-off of our Printing Papers segment into a standalone publicly-traded company ("SpinCo"). See discussion on page 27 of Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 8 Divestitures and Impairments of Businesses on page 59 of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
From 2016 through 2020, International Paper’s capital spending approximated $6.3 billion, excluding mergers and acquisitions. These expenditures reflect our continuing efforts to use our capital strategically to improve product quality and environmental performance, as well as lower costs, maintain reliability of operations and strategic capital for capacity expansion. Capital spending in 2020 was approximately $751 million and is expected to be approximately $800 million in 2021. You can find more information about capital spending on page 33 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Discussions of acquisitions can be found on page 31 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
You can find discussions of restructuring charges and other special items on pages 25 and 26 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we “incorporate by reference” certain information in parts of other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC permits us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, along with all other reports and any amendments thereto filed with or furnished to the SEC, are publicly available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at www.internationalpaper.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we filed with or furnished to the SEC.

HUMAN CAPITAL

Our strategic framework, The IP Way Forward, ensures our business strategy delivers sustainable outcomes for all of our stakeholders - employees, customers, suppliers, communities, governments, non-governmental organizations and shareholders – for generations to come. We accomplish this through a series of programs and processes as discussed below. Additionally in 2020, we established our Vision 2030 goals for healthy and abundant forests, thriving people and communities, sustainable operations and renewable solutions. Several of these goals are discussed in more detail below.



1
Table of Contents

EMPLOYEES
As of December 31, 2020, we have approximately 49,300 employees, nearly 33,400 of whom are located in the United States. Of our U.S. employees, approximately 23,100 are hourly, with unions representing approximately 14,300 employees. Approximately 10,800 of this number are represented by the United Steelworkers union ("USW").

International Paper, the USW, and several other unions have entered into two master agreements covering various mills and converting facilities. These master agreements cover several specific items, including wages, select benefit programs, successorship, employment security, and health and safety.  Individual facilities continue to have local agreements for other subjects not covered by the master agreements. If local facility agreements are not successfully negotiated at the time of expiration, under the terms of the master agreements the local contracts will automatically renew with the same terms in effect. The master agreements cover the majority of our union represented mills and converting facilities. In addition, International Paper is party to a master agreement with District Council 2, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, covering additional converting facilities.

SAFETY

The safety of our employees remains the primary focus of our leaders. Our goal is to create a 100% injury-free workplace for our employees and contractors. To accomplish this goal, we focus on the IP Way of doing things - we do the right things, in the right ways, for the right reasons, all of the time. Our stated Vision 2030 Goal is to achieve zero injuries for employees and contractors.

Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we have remained focused on protecting the health and safety of our employees while meeting the needs of our customers. Most of our manufacturing and converting facilities we deemed essential have remained open and operational during the pandemic. The health and safety of our employees and contractors is our most important responsibility as we manage through the COVID-19 pandemic. We have implemented work-systems across the Company, including hygiene, social distancing, site cleaning, contract tracing and other measures, as recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization. As a sign of our appreciation for our workers during the pandemic, the Company gave a one-time bonus to all employees in December 2020.




HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

The attraction, retention and development of our employees is critical to our success. We accomplish this, in part, by developing the capabilities of our team members through our continuous learning, development and performance management programs. One such program is our REACH (Recruit, Engage, Align College Hires) program through which the Company recruits and develops early-career engineers and safety professionals for our U.S. Mill system, preparing them to become future leaders. We invest in the growth and development of our employees by providing a multi-dimensional approach to learning that empowers, intellectually grows, and professionally develops our employees. We provide continuing education courses that are relevant to our industry and job function within the Company. In addition, we have created learning paths for specific positions that are designed to encourage an employee’s advancement and growth within our organization. We also offer a peer mentor program and leadership and customer service training to support and develop our employees. These resources provide employees with the skills they need to achieve their career goals, build management skills and become leaders within our Company. In 2019, 580 new hourly operations and maintenance employees at our mills experienced new hire integration training and 460 high potential leaders participated in experiential development programs.

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

The Company believes in an inclusive workforce, where diverse backgrounds are represented, engaged and empowered to inspire innovative ideas and decisions. Our stated Vision 2030 goal is to achieve 30% overall representation of women and 50% women in salaried positions and to implement regional diversity plans, including 30% minority representation in U.S. salaried positions. To foster a more diverse and inclusive culture, the Company is focused on (1) promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion that leverages the talents of all employees, and (2) implementing practices that attract, recruit and retain diverse top talent. The Company supports employee-led networking groups that are open to all employees and provide a forum to communicate and exchange ideas, build a network of relationships across the Company, and pursue personal and professional development, such as the Women in International Paper Employee Networking Circle, African American Employee Networking Circle ("IPmove"), LGBTQ Employee Networking Circle (“IPride”) and a Veterans Employee Networking Circle.



2
Table of Contents

We have a global workforce and have implemented programs around the globe to create diverse, inclusive workplaces. We have increased representation of women engineers in our REACH program to 38% with the Class of 2021. And our overall full-time diversity hiring for the REACH Class 2021 is 52%.

CITIZENSHIP

We encourage our employees to support the communities in which they live and in which the Company operates. Our citizenship efforts extend across the globe and support social and educational needs. To that end, in 2019 we invested more than $24 million to address critical needs in the communities in which we work and live. Our Vision 2030 goal is to strengthen the resilience of our communities and improve the lives of 100 million people in our communities. We are proud to have been named among the world’s most ethical companies by Ethisphere for 14 consecutive years.


COMPETITION AND COSTS
The pulp, paper and packaging sectors are large and fragmented, and the areas into which the Company sells its principal products are very competitive. Our products compete with similar products produced by other forest products companies. We also compete, in some instances, with companies in other industries and against substitutes for wood-fiber products.

Many factors influence the Company’s competitive position, including price, cost, product quality and services. You can find more information about the impact of these factors on operating profits on pages 20 through 31 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You can find information about the Company’s manufacturing capacities on page A-4 of Appendix II.
3
Table of Contents
MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION
The Company sells products directly to end users and converters, as well as through agents, resellers and paper distributors.



DESCRIPTION OF PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company’s principal products are described on pages 26 and 27 of Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT
Sales volumes of major products for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:
SALES VOLUMES BY PRODUCT (a)
 
In thousands of short tons (except as noted)	2020	2019	2018	Industrial Packaging				Corrugated Packaging (b)	10,671 		10,454 		10,624 		Containerboard	3,097 		2,909 		3,229 		Recycling	2,181 		2,388 		2,282 		Saturated Kraft	158 		174 		196 		Gypsum/Release Kraft	209 		199 		227 		Bleached Kraft	30 		22 		31 		EMEA Packaging (b)	1,627 		1,538 		1,476 		Brazilian Packaging (b)	271 		366 		351 		European Coated Paperboard	411 		417 		390 		Industrial Packaging	18,655 		18,467 		18,806 		
Global Cellulose Fibers (in thousands of metric tons) (c)
3,676 		3,501 		3,573 		Printing Papers				U.S. Uncoated Papers	1,339 		1,799 		1,886 		European and Russian Uncoated Papers	1,249 		1,456 		1,440 		Brazilian Uncoated Papers	910 		1,172 		1,125 		Indian Uncoated Papers	— 		206 		263 		Printing Papers	3,498 		4,633 		4,714 	 
(a)Includes third-party and inter-segment sales and excludes sales of equity investees.
(b)Volumes for corrugated box sales reflect consumed tons sold ("CTS"). Board sales by these businesses reflect invoiced tons.
(c) Includes North American, European and Brazilian volumes and internal sales to mills.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

The Company is subject to extensive federal and state environmental regulation, as well as similar regulations internationally. In addition, new environmental laws or regulations impacting our facilities around the world are routinely passed or proposed. Our continuing objectives include: (1) controlling emissions and discharges from our facilities to avoid adverse impacts on the environment, and (2) maintaining compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Company spent $46 million in 2020 for capital projects to control environmental releases into the air and water, and to assure environmentally sound management and disposal of waste. We expect to spend $50 million in 2021 for environmental capital projects. Capital expenditures for 2022 environmental projects are anticipated to be approximately $45 million. Capital

expenditures for 2023 environmental projects are estimated to be $30 million.

The Company has completed capital projects to meet the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's ("EPA") maximum achievable control technology ("MACT") and risk and technology review ("RTR") regulations that require owners of specified pulp and paper process equipment and boilers to meet new air emissions standards for certain substances. As portions of these MACT and RTR regulations have been remanded to EPA for further consideration it is not clear at this time
what, if any, additional capital project expenditures might result from resolution of the open issues.
The Company has been named as a potentially responsible party ("PRP") in environmental remediation actions under various federal and state
4
Table of Contents
laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"). Many of these proceedings involve the cleanup of hazardous substances at large commercial landfills that received waste from many different sources. While joint and several liability is authorized under CERCLA and equivalent state laws, as a practical matter, liability for CERCLA cleanups is typically allocated among the many PRPs. There are other remediation costs typically associated with the cleanup of hazardous substances at the Company’s current, closed or formerly-owned facilities, and recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet. For additional information regarding certain remediation actions, see Note 14 Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data on pages 68 through 70.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors - WE ARE SUBJECT TO A WIDE VARIETY OF LAWS, REGULATIONS AND OTHER GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENTS THAT MAY CHANGE IN SIGNIFICANT WAYS, AND THE COST OF COMPLIANCE WITH SUCH REQUIREMENTS COULD IMPACT OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.

CLIMATE CHANGE

The Company recognizes the impacts of climate change on people and our planet. In order to manage climate-related risks, we are taking actions throughout our value chain to advance a low-carbon economy.

We transform renewable resources into recyclable products that people depend on every day. This cycle begins with sourcing renewable fiber from responsibly managed forests, and at the end of use, our low-carbon products are recycled into new products at a higher rate than any other base material. We work to advance the shift to a low-carbon, circular economy by designing products that are 100% reusable, recyclable or compostable.

As part of our Vision 2030, we have committed to incremental reductions in our Scope I, II and III greenhouse gas emissions: 35% reduction by 2030. Our greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal is consistent with the Paris Climate Agreement. Furthermore, we use biomass and manufacturing residuals (rather than fossil fuels) to generate a majority of the manufacturing energy at our mills.

Our efforts to advance sustainable forest management and restore forest landscapes are an important lever for mitigating climate change through
carbon storage in forests.

In an effort to mitigate the impact of climate change various international, national and sub-national (regional, state and local) governmental actions have been or may be undertaken. Presently, these efforts have not materially impacted the Company, but such efforts may have a material impact on the Company in the future.

INTERNATIONAL EFFORTS
The Paris Agreement went into effect in November 2016 and continues international efforts and voluntary commitments toward reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases ("GHGs"). Consistent with this objective, participating countries aim to balance GHG emissions generation and sequestration in the second half of this century or, in effect, achieve net-zero global GHG emissions.

To assist member countries in meeting GHG reduction obligations, the EU operates an Emissions Trading System ("EU ETS"). Currently, we have two sites directly subject to regulation under Phase III of the EU ETS, one in Poland and one in France. Other sites that we operate in the EU experience indirect impacts of the EU ETS through purchased power pricing. Neither the direct nor indirect impacts of the EU ETS have been material to the Company, but they could be material to the Company in the future depending on how the Paris Agreement's non-binding commitments or allocation of and market prices for GHG credits under existing rules evolve over the coming years.

U.S. EFFORTS, INCLUDING STATE, REGIONAL AND LOCAL MEASURES
The U.S. Congress has not passed GHG legislation. The EPA manages regulations to: (i) control GHGs from mobile sources by adopting transportation fuel efficiency standards; (ii) control GHG emissions from new Electric Generating Units ("EGUs"); (iii) control emissions from new oil and gas processing operations and (iv) require reporting of GHGs from sources of GHGs greater than 25,000 tons per year.
Several U.S. states, including states in which we operate facilities, have enacted or are considering legal measures to require the reduction of emissions of GHGs by companies and public utilities. California, New York and Virginia have already enacted such programs, although these regulations have not, and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company. We monitor proposed programs in other states as well; however, it is unclear what impacts, if any, future state-level GHG rules will have on the Company’s operations.

5
Table of Contents
SUMMARY
Regulation of GHGs continues to evolve in various countries in which we do business. While it is likely that there will be increased governmental action regarding GHGs and climate change in the future, it is unclear when such actions will occur and at this time it is not reasonably possible to estimate the Company’s costs of compliance with rules that have not yet been adopted or implemented and may not be adopted or implemented in the future. In addition to possible direct impacts, future legislation and regulation could have indirect impacts on the Company, such as higher prices for transportation, energy and other inputs, as well as more protracted air permitting processes, causing delays and higher costs to implement capital projects. The Company has controls and procedures in place to stay informed about developments concerning possible climate change legislation and regulation in the U.S. and in other countries where we operate. We regularly assess whether such legislation or regulation may have a material effect on the Company, its operations or financial condition, and whether we have any related disclosure obligations.

Additional information regarding climate change and the Company is available in our 2019 Global Citizenship report found on our website at www.internationalpaper.com, though this information is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report that we file with or furnish to the SEC.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Mark S. Sutton, 59, chairman (since January 1, 2015) & chief executive officer (since November 1, 2014). Mr. Sutton previously served as president & chief operating officer from June 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014, senior vice president - industrial packaging from November 2011 to May 31, 2014, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from 2010 until 2011, senior vice president - supply chain from 2008 to 2009, vice president - supply chain from 2007 until 2008, and vice president - strategic planning from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Sutton joined International Paper in 1984. Mr. Sutton serves on the board of directors of The Kroger Company. He is a member of The Business Council, serves on the American Forest & Paper Association board of directors, The Business Roundtable board of directors, and the international advisory board of the Moscow School of Management - Skolkovo. He was appointed chairman of the U.S. Russian Business Council. He also serves on the board of directors for Memphis Tomorrow and board of governors for New Memphis
Institute. Mr. Sutton has been a director since June 1, 2014.

W. Michael Amick, Jr., 57, senior vice president - paper the Americas since January 1, 2017 until his anticipated departure on March 31, 2021. Mr. Amick previously served as senior vice president - North American papers & consumer packaging from July 2016 until December 2016, senior vice president - North American papers, pulp & consumer packaging from November 2014 until June 2016, vice president - president, IP India, from August 2012 to October 2014, and vice president and general manager for the coated paperboard business from 2010 to 2012. Mr. Amick joined International Paper in 1990.

Clay R. Ellis, 50, senior vice president - enterprise operational excellence since December 2019. Mr. Ellis previously served as vice president - manufacturing, global cellulose fibers from 2016 to December 2019, vice president of pulp from 2014 to 2016, and vice president manufacturing, North American papers from 2012 to 2014. Mr. Ellis joined International Paper in 1992.

W. Thomas Hamic, 55, senior vice president - global cellulose fibers and enterprise commercial excellence since September 2020. Mr. Hamic previously served as senior vice president - containerboard and enterprise commercial excellence from December 2019 until September 2020. Mr. Hamic has also previously served as vice president and general manager - containerboard & recycling, North American container from June 2015 until December 2019. Mr. Hamic became vice president and general manager of the south area in container of the Americas in 2009, and he was appointed to the role of vice president, industrial packaging group’s finance & strategy in 2010. Mr. Hamic joined International Paper in 1991.

Timothy S. Nicholls, 59, senior vice president & chief financial officer since June 2018. Mr. Nicholls previously served as senior vice president - industrial packaging the Americas from January 2017 through June 2018, senior vice president - industrial packaging from November 2014 through December 2016, senior vice president - printing and communications papers of the Americas from November 2011 through October 2014, senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2007 until 2011, vice president and executive project leader of IP Europe during 2007, and vice president and chief financial officer - IP Europe from 2005 until 2007. Mr. Nicholls joined International Paper in 1999.

Thomas J. Plath, 57, senior vice president - human resources and global citizenship since March 1, 2017. Mr. Plath previously served as vice president
6
Table of Contents
- human resources, global businesses from November 2014 through February 2017, and vice president - HR manufacturing, technology, EH&S and global supply chain from April 2013 to November 2014. Mr. Plath joined International Paper in 1991.

Jean-Michel Ribiéras, 58, senior vice president - paper the Americas and chief executive officer-elect of the standalone, publicly traded company that will result from the Company's anticipated spin-off SpinCo since January 2021. Mr. Ribieras previously served as senior vice president - industrial packaging the Americas from June 2018 until January 2021. Mr. Ribieras also previously served as senior vice president - global cellulose fibers from July 2016 through June 2018, senior vice president - president, IP Europe, Middle East, Africa & Russia from 2013 until June 2016, and president - IP Latin America from 2009 until 2013. Mr. Ribieras joined International Paper in 1993.

James P. Royalty, Jr., 51, senior vice president and president, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Russia since December 2019. Most recently, Mr. Royalty served as vice president, corporate development and disruptive technologies from September 2018 until December 2019, vice president, strategic projects from 2017 until 2018, vice president, investor relations from 2013 until 2017, vice president and general manager, container the Americas in 2008 to 2013. Mr. Royalty joined International Paper in 1991.

Sharon R. Ryan, 61, senior vice president, general counsel & corporate secretary since November 2011. Ms. Ryan previously served as vice president, acting general counsel & corporate secretary from May 2011 until November 2011, vice president from March 2011 until May 2011, associate general counsel, chief ethics and compliance officer from 2009 until 2011, and associate general counsel from 2006 until 2009. Ms. Ryan joined International Paper in 1988.

John V. Sims, 58, senior vice president - finance, papers the Americas and chief financial officer-elect of SpinCo since January 2021. Mr. Sims previously served as senior vice president - corporate development from December 2019 until January 2021. Mr Sims previously served as senior vice president - president, IP Europe, Middle East, Africa & Russia from July 2016 until December 2019. Mr. Sims also previously served as vice president and general manager, European papers from January 2016 until June 2016, vice president & general manager, North American papers from 2014 until December 2015, and vice president, finance and strategy, industrial packaging, from 2009 until 2013. Mr. Sims is a director of Ilim in which International
Paper holds a 50% interest, and of its subsidiary, Ilim Group. Mr. Sims joined International Paper in 1994.

Gregory T. Wanta, 55, senior vice president - North American container since December 2016. Mr. Wanta has served in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility in manufacturing and commercial leadership roles in specialty papers, coated paperboard, printing papers, foodservice and industrial packaging, including vice president, central region, Container the Americas, from January 2012 through October 2016. Mr. Wanta joined International Paper in 1991.

RAW MATERIALS

Raw materials essential to our businesses include wood fiber, purchased in the form of pulpwood, wood chips and old corrugated containers (OCC), and certain chemicals, including caustic soda and starch. For further information concerning fiber supply purchase agreements, see pages 33 and 34.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Certain statements in this Annual Report may be considered “forward-looking” statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are often identified by the words “will,” “may,” “should,” “continue,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “plan,” “appear,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend” and words of a similar nature. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect management’s current views with respect to future events, which are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Factors which could cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: (i) developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the severity, magnitude and duration of the pandemic, negative global economic conditions arising from the pandemic, the development, availability and effectiveness of treatments and vaccines, impacts of governments’ responses to the pandemic on our operations, impacts of the pandemic on commercial activity, our customers and business partners and consumer preferences and demand, supply chain disruptions, and disruptions in the capital or financial markets; (ii) the level of indebtedness and changes in interest rates; (iii) industry conditions, including but not limited to changes in the cost or availability of raw materials, energy and transportation costs, competition International Paper faces, cyclicality and changes in consumer preferences, demand and pricing for International Paper products (including changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic); (iv) domestic and global economic conditions and political changes, changes in currency exchange rates, trade protectionist policies, downgrades in International Paper’s credit ratings, and/or the credit ratings of
7
Table of Contents
banks issuing certain letters of credit, issued by recognized credit rating organizations; (v) the amount of International Paper’s future pension funding obligations, and pension and health care costs; (vi) unanticipated expenditures or other adverse developments related to the cost of compliance with existing and new environmental, tax, labor and employment, privacy and other U.S. and non-U.S. governmental laws and regulations (including new legal requirements arising from the COVID-19 pandemic); (vii) any material disruption at any of International Paper’s manufacturing facilities due to severe weather, natural disasters or other causes (including as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic); (viii) risks inherent in conducting business through joint ventures; (ix) International Paper’s ability to achieve the benefits expected from, and other risks associated with, acquisitions, joint ventures, divestitures and other corporate transactions; (x) information technology risks; and (xi) loss contingencies and pending, threatened or future litigation, including with respect to environmental related matters, (xii) the receipt of regulatory approvals relating to the spin-off transaction without unexpected delays or conditions; (xiii) International Paper’s ability to successfully separate the SpinCo business and realize the anticipated benefits of the spin-off transaction; (xiv) the ability to satisfy any necessary conditions to consummate the spin-off transaction within the estimated timeframes or at all; and (xv) the final terms and conditions of the spin-off transaction, including the amount of any dividend by SpinCo to International Paper and the terms of any ongoing commercial agreements and arrangements between International Paper and SpinCo following any such transaction, the costs of any such transaction, the nature and amount of indebtedness incurred by SpinCo, the qualification of the spin-off transaction as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes (including whether an IRS ruling will be obtained), diversion of management’s attention and the impact on relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other business counterparties, and the impact of any such transaction on the businesses of International Paper and SpinCo and the relationship between the two companies following any such transaction. These and other factors that could cause or contribute to actual results differing materially from such forward-looking statements can be found in International Paper’s press releases and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filings. In addition, other risks and uncertainties not presently known to International Paper or that it currently believes to be immaterial could affect the accuracy of any forward-looking statements. International Paper undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.