Our Company

    IQVIA is a leading global provider of advanced analytics, technology solutions, and clinical research services to the life sciences industry. IQVIA creates intelligent connections across all aspects of healthcare through its analytics, transformative technology, big data resources and extensive domain expertise. IQVIA Connected Intelligence™ delivers powerful insights with speed and agility — enabling customers to accelerate the clinical development and commercialization of innovative medical treatments that improve healthcare outcomes for patients. With approximately 70,000 employees, we conduct operations in more than 100 countries.

We are a global leader in protecting individual patient privacy. We use a wide variety of privacy-enhancing technologies and safeguards to protect individual privacy while generating and analyzing information on a scale that helps healthcare stakeholders identify disease patterns and correlate with the precise treatment path and therapy needed for better outcomes. Our insights and execution capabilities help biotech, medical device and pharmaceutical companies, medical researchers, government agencies, payers and other healthcare stakeholders tap into a deeper understanding of diseases, human behaviors and scientific advances, in an effort to advance their path toward cures.

    We have one of the largest and most comprehensive collections of healthcare information in the world, which includes more than one billion comprehensive, longitudinal, non-identified patient records spanning sales, prescription and promotional data, medical claims, electronic medical records, genomics, and social media. Our scaled and growing information set contains approximately 45 petabytes of proprietary data sourced from approximately 150,000 data suppliers and covering over one million data feeds globally. Based on this data, we deliver information and insights on over 85% of the world’s pharmaceuticals, as measured by 2019 sales. We standardize, curate, structure and integrate this information by applying our sophisticated analytics and leveraging our global technology infrastructure. This helps our clients run their organizations more efficiently and make better decisions to improve their clinical, commercial and financial performance. The breadth of the intelligent, actionable information we provide is not comprehensively available from any other source and our scope of information would be difficult and costly for another party to replicate.

    We combine our proprietary information assets with advanced analytics, transformative technology and domain expertise to develop clinical and commercial capabilities that enable us to grow our relationships with healthcare stakeholders throughout the life science’s value chain. This set of capabilities includes:

•A leading healthcare-specific global IT infrastructure, representing what we believe is one of the largest and most sophisticated information technology (“IT”) infrastructures in healthcare. We receive approximately 100 billion healthcare records annually, and our infrastructure then connects complex healthcare data while applying a wide range of privacy, security, operational, legal and contractual protections for data in response to local law, supplier requirements and industry leading practices;

•Analytics-driven clinical development, which improves clinical trial design, site identification and patient recruitment by empowering therapeutic, scientific, and domain experts with expansive levels of information, including product level tracking in 90 markets, and information about treatments and outcomes on more than one billion non-identified patients globally;

•Robust real world solutions ecosystem, with sophisticated retrospective database analytics, prospective real world data collection technology platforms and scientific expertise, which enables us to address critical healthcare issues of cost, value and patient outcomes;

•A growing set of proprietary clinical and commercial applications, which helps our clients increase their clinical operations performance, supports their regulatory and compliance needs and orchestrates their sales operations, sales management, multi- channel marketing and performance management; and

•A staff of approximately 70,000 employees across the globe, including over 24,000 Technology & Analytics Solutions employees, approximately 38,000 Research & Development Solutions employees and approximately 6,000 Contract Sales & Medical Solutions employees.
5


•Integration of information, analytics, technology, and domain expertise through Connected Intelligence, which enables us to provide our clients with more effective options to address their needs from Research and Development through commercialization as well as truly innovative breakthroughs such as virtual trials and global real-world evidence networks.

Our Market Opportunity

    We compete in a market of greater than $260 billion consisting of outsourced research and development, real-world evidence and connected health and technology enabled clinical and commercial operations markets for life sciences companies and the broader healthcare industry. The following sets forth our estimates for the size of our principal markets:

•Outsourced research and development: Biopharmaceutical spending on drug development totaled approximately $130 billion in 2020. Of that amount, we estimate that our addressable opportunity (clinical development spending excluding preclinical spending) was approximately $75 billion. The portion of this addressable opportunity that was outsourced in 2020, based on our estimates, was approximately $36 billion;

•Real-World Evidence and connected health: Total addressable market of approximately $80 billion based on 2020 sales that consists of two relatively equal parts. First, the market for Real-World Evidence of approximately $40 billion includes traditionally defined analytic platforms and implementation, medical and scientific analytic services, observation studies and market access. Second, the market for connected healthcare of approximately $40 billion includes areas such as revenue cycle management, payer analytics and clinical decision support services; and

•Technology enabled commercial operations: Total addressable market of approximately $50 billion based on 2020 sales that includes information, data warehousing, IT outsourcing, software applications and other services in the broader market for IT services. This addressable market also includes commercial services such as recruiting, training, deploying and managing global sales forces, channel management, patient engagement services, market access consulting, brand communication, advisory services, and health information analytics and technology consulting.

    In deriving estimates of the size of the various markets described above, we review third-party sources, which include estimates and forecasts of spending in various segments, in combination with internal IQVIA research and analysis informed by our experience serving these segments, as well as projected growth rates for each of these segments. See “Industry and Market Data” above.

    We believe there are six key trends affecting our end markets that will create increasing demand for research and development services, technology & analytics solutions and contract sales and medical solutions:

    Growth and innovation in the life sciences industry. The life sciences industry is a large and critical part of the global healthcare system, and, according to the latest information available from the IQVIA Market Prognosis service, is estimated to have generated approximately $1.27 trillion in revenue in 2020. According to our research, revenue growth in the life sciences industry globally is expected to range from 3% to 6% between 2021 and 2025. According to the IQVIA Institute, it is estimated that spending on pharmaceuticals in emerging markets will expand at a 6% to 9% compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) through 2025. The growth of emerging markets is making these geographies strategically important to life sciences organizations and, consistent with their approach in the developed markets, we expect these organizations to apply a high degree of sophistication to their commercial operations in these countries. For global companies, this requires highly localized knowledge and information assets, the development of market access strategies and performance benchmarking. In addition, local players are learning that they need to compete on the basis of improved information and analytics.

    Growth in Research and Development. Spending trends in research and development are impacted as a result of several factors, including major biopharmaceutical companies’ efforts to replenish revenues lost from the so-called “patent cliff,” increased access to capital by the small and midcap biotechnology industry, and recent increases in pharmaceutical approvals by regulatory authorities. The IQVIA Institute also estimates that approximately 270 new molecular entities (“NMEs”) are expected to be approved between 2021 and 2025, compared to 234 between 2016 and 2020, and 220 between 2011 and 2015. We believe that further research
6

and development spending, combined with the continued need for cost efficiency across the healthcare landscape, will continue to create opportunities for biopharmaceutical services companies, particularly those with a global reach and broad service offerings, to help biopharmaceutical companies with their pre- and post-launch solutions development and commercialization needs.

    Increased Complexity in Research and Development. Biopharmaceutical companies face environments in which it has become increasingly difficult to operate. Improved standards of care in many therapeutic areas and the emergence of new types of therapies, such as biologics, genetically targeted therapies, gene and stem cell therapies, and other treatment modalities have led to more complex development and regulatory pathways. We believe that our global clinical development capabilities, including our expertise in biomarkers and genomics and our global laboratory network, position us well to help biopharmaceutical companies manage the complexities inherent in an environment where this type of expertise is important. For example, Connected Intelligence helps us validate protocols to ensure studies in new disease areas have greater accuracy and also enables us, through innovations such as predictive analytics, to find patients who may not have been diagnosed.

    Regulators require clinical trials involving local populations as part of the process for approving new pharmaceutical products, especially in certain Asian and emerging markets. Understanding the epidemiological and physiological differences in different ethnic populations and being able to conduct clinical trials locally in certain geographies will be important to pharmaceutical product growth strategies, both for multinational and local/regional biopharmaceutical companies. We believe that our global clinical development capabilities and unmatched presence in Asia and other emerging markets make us a strong partner for biopharmaceutical companies managing the complexities of international drug development.

    Financial pressures driving the need for increased efficiency. Despite expected accelerating growth in the global life sciences market, we believe our clients will face increased operating margin pressure due to their changing product mix, pricing and reimbursement challenges, and rising costs of compliance. Product portfolios for life sciences companies have shifted toward specialty products with lower peak market sales potential than traditional primary care medicines. We believe that the need for biopharmaceutical companies to maximize productivity and lower costs across their processes from research and development through commercial operations will cause them to look to partners as they enter into outsourcing arrangements to improve efficiency. Further, our clients are looking for new ways to simplify processes and drive operational efficiencies by using automation, consolidating vendors and adopting new technology options such as hosted and cloud-based applications. This provides opportunities for technology services vendors to capture and consolidate internal spending by providing lower-cost and variable-cost options that lower clients’ research and development, selling, marketing and administrative costs.

    Evolving need to integrate and structure expanding sources of data. Over the past decade, many health systems around the world have focused on digitizing medical records. While such records theoretically enhance access to data, relevant information is often unintegrated, unstructured, siloed in disparate software systems, or entered inconsistently. In addition, new sources of data from the internet, such as social media and information on limited patient pools, and information resulting from enhanced diagnostic technologies are creating new sources of healthcare data.

    In order to derive valuable insights from existing and expanding sources of information, clients need access to statistically significant data sets organized into databases that can be queried and analyzed. For example, real-world evidence studies demonstrate practical and clinical efficacies, which we believe require the aggregation and integration of large clinical data sets across all care settings, types of therapies and patient cohorts. Longitudinal studies require analysis of non-identified patient diagnoses, treatments, procedures and laboratory test results to identify types of patients that will likely best respond to particular therapies. Finally, manufacturers also require the ability to analyze social media activity to identify unmet patient needs and support for new orphan drugs. This information is highly relevant to all healthcare stakeholders and we believe the opportunity to more broadly apply healthcare data can only be realized through structuring, organizing and integrating new and existing forms of data in conjunction with sophisticated analytics.

    Need for demonstrated value in healthcare. Participants in the healthcare industry are focused on improving quality and reducing costs, both of which require assessment of quality and value of therapies and providers. As a result, physicians no longer make prescribing decisions in isolation, but rather in the context of guidance and rules from payers, integrated delivery networks and governments. We believe life sciences companies are working to bring alignment across constituents on the value of their treatments in order to successfully develop and commercialize new therapies.

7

    There is increasing pressure on life sciences companies to support and justify the value of their therapies. Many new drugs that are being approved are more expensive than existing therapies and will likely receive heightened scrutiny by regulators and payers to determine whether the existing treatment options would be sufficient. Additionally, many new specialty drugs are molecular-based therapies and require a more detailed understanding of clinical factors and influencers that demonstrate therapeutic value. As a result, leading life sciences companies are utilizing more sophisticated outcome research and data analytics services.

    We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of these global trends in healthcare. Beyond our proprietary information assets, we have developed key capabilities to assess opportunities to develop and commercialize therapies, support and defend the value of medicines and help our clients operate more efficiently through the application of insight-driven decision-making and cost-efficient technology solutions.

Our Growth Strategy

    We believe we are well positioned for continued growth across the markets we serve. Our strategy for achieving growth includes:

    Continue to innovate through our Connected Intelligence by leveraging our information, advanced analytics, transformative technology and significant domain expertise. As a leader in the development and commercialization of new pharmaceutical therapies, we can empower our therapeutic, scientific and domain experts with expansive levels of information including product level tracking in 90 markets and information about treatments and outcomes on more than one billion non-identified patients. By connecting this intelligence, we have the ability to optimize the clinical trial process and enable our clients to reduce costs and get their products to market more quickly through more informed site selection, faster patient recruitment practices and virtual trials. We transform Real World Evidence by linking prospective and retrospective approaches and introduce innovation such as secondary control arms, which eliminate the need for a placebo group. We bring best in class SaaS platforms, purpose built for life sciences, to our clients to help them run their clinical and commercial operations more efficiently.

    Build upon our extensive client relationships and leverage our global presence. We have a diversified base of over 10,000 clients in over 100 countries and have expanded our client value proposition to address a broader market for research and development and commercial operations which we estimate to be more than $260 billion in 2020. Through the combined offerings of research and development and commercial services we built a platform that allows us to be a more complete partner to our clients.

Expand the penetration of our offerings to the broader healthcare marketplace. We believe that substantial opportunities exist to use our existing technology and domain expertise to serve additional healthcare stakeholders (payers, providers, healthcare professionals) to quantify and optimize cost of care delivery; provide registry technology to professional association and patient communities and support healthcare providers with system implementation and platform migration.

    Expand portfolio through strategic acquisitions. We have and expect to continue to acquire assets and businesses that strengthen our value proposition to clients. We have developed an internal capability to source, evaluate and integrate acquisitions that have created value for stockholders. As the global healthcare landscape evolves, we expect that there will be a growing number of acquisition opportunities across the life sciences, payer and provider sectors. We expect to continue to invest in or explore opportunities for strategic acquisitions to grow our platform and enhance our ability to provide more services to our clients.


Our Offerings

    We offer hundreds of distinct services, applications, technology platforms and solutions to help our clients make critical decisions and perform better. We have three operating segments: Technology & Analytics Solutions, Research & Development Solutions and Contract Sales & Medical Solutions. Their offerings complement each other and can provide enhanced value to our clients when delivered together, with each driving demand for the other.

    Our Technology & Analytics Solutions offerings include:

    Technology platforms. We provide an extensive range of cloud-based applications and associated implementation services. Software as a Service (“SaaS”) solutions that support a wide range of clinical and commercial processes, including clinical trial design and planning, site start-up, patient consent, site payments, content management, multi-channel marketing, real-world evidence
8

generation, customer relationship management (“CRM”), performance management, incentive compensation, territory alignment, roster management, call planning, compliance and safety reporting and master data management. These solutions are used by healthcare companies to manage, optimize and execute their clinical and commercial strategies in an orchestrated manner while addressing their regulatory obligations. Using proprietary algorithms, we combine our country-level data, healthcare expertise and therapeutic knowledge in over 100 countries to create our Global Market Insight family of offerings such as MIDAS, Analytics Link and Disease Insights, which provides a leading source of insight into international market dynamics and are used by most large pharmaceutical companies.

    Real World Solutions. We enable life sciences and provider customers to generate and disseminate evidence in a cost-efficient manner which informs health care decision making and ultimately improves patients’ outcomes. Our use of a wide range of privacy and security safeguards protect non-identified patient-level medical claims, prescriptions, electronic medical records, genomics, patient reported outcome and social media data. Our scaled information networks include more than one billion non-identified patients globally. We technology-enable these data flows by harmonizing them to common data models and loading them onto our proprietary evidence platforms for secure access by our customers. We provide access to deep clinical data in Oncology, Rare Disease, and other specialty areas. Our Natural Language Processing capabilities help us create structured data from unstructured clinical notes. We help our global customers across payers, providers, governments, and biopharmaceutical companies to answer critical questions about healthcare interventions related to safety, effectiveness, and value. We also bring together stakeholders across healthcare to collaborate in efforts to develop new information sources, more effective reimbursement models, and better patient outcomes.

    Analytics and consulting services. We provide a broad set of strategic and implementation consulting services, including advanced analytics and commercial processes outsourcing services to help the commercial operations of life sciences companies successfully transform their commercial models, engage more effectively with the healthcare stakeholders and reduce their operating costs. We also help our client’s R&D function to address strategic challenges in the drug development process. Our global teams leverage local market knowledge, deep scientific and therapeutic area expertise and our global information resources to assist our clients with R&D strategy, portfolio, brand and commercial strategy, as well as pricing and market access and launch excellence.

    Information offerings. Our national offerings comprise unique services in over 100 countries that provide consistent country level performance metrics related to sales of pharmaceutical products, prescribing trends, medical treatment and promotional activity across multiple channels including retail, hospital and mail order. Our sub-national offerings comprise unique services in over 70 countries that provide a consistent measurement of sales or prescribing activity at the regional, zip code and individual prescriber level (depending on regulation in the relevant country). Our widely used reference database that tracks over 22 million healthcare professionals in over 100 countries, providing a comprehensive view of health care practitioners that is critical for the commercial success of our clients’ marketing and sales initiatives.

    Our Research & Development Solutions offerings include:

    Project Management and Clinical Monitoring. Drawing upon our years of experience, our site databases, our site relationships and our highly trained staff, our solutions and services enables the efficient conduct and coordination of multi-site clinical trials (generally Phase II-IV). Our service offerings include protocol design, feasibility and operational planning, site start up, patient recruitment and clinical site monitoring. By infusing technology into field-based monitoring, we are able to reduce data collection steps and time.

    Clinical Trial Support Services. Each clinical trial requires a number of concurrent services and data streams. We offer a broad range of functional services and consultation to support clinical trials through specialized expertise that help clients efficiently collect, analyze and report the quality data and evidence they need to gain regulatory approval.

    Clinical Laboratory Services. We provide our clients globally scaled end-to-end clinical trial laboratory and research services through our majority-owned joint venture with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (“Quest”), which was formed on July 1, 2015. We offer the full range of central laboratory, genomic, bioanalytical, ADME, discovery, vaccine and biomarker laboratory services along with sample and consent tracking services supporting clinical trials offerings within the joint venture, which is referred to as Q2 Solutions.

    Strategic Planning and Design. By bringing our data science capabilities to our strategic planning and design services, we offer consultation services to improve decisions and performance including portfolio, program and protocol planning and design, biomarker consultation, benefit-risk management, regulatory affairs, biostatistics, modeling and simulation, and personalized medicine.
9


    Virtual Trials. Utilizing our proprietary information assets and transformative technology, we bring trials directly to patients, with the objective of increasing participation and improving cycle times. Combining this with purpose-built processes and industry-leading clinical capabilities, we help clients reach diverse and difficult to recruit patient populations.

    Our principal Contract Sales & Medical Solutions offerings include:

    Health Care Provider Engagement Services. We partner with biopharmaceutical companies and other life sciences providers (e.g., medical device companies) to develop and deploy tailored stakeholder engagement solutions, including contract sales and market access professionals, which are focused on product sales and improving brand value at all stages of the product lifecycle from initial market entry to brands nearing patent expiry.

    Patient Engagement Services. Our nurse-based programs directly engage with patients to help improve their disease and medication understanding through interventional and non-interventional support, while also providing assistance in navigating complex reimbursement coverage issues. Our patient engagement services combine insight from clinical trials and social listening, behavioral design, personal and innovative eHealth multichannel interactions across multiple sites (e.g., the physician’s office, hospital, pharmacy, home), that act as an extension of the Health Care Provider prescribed treatment course which can lead to improved adherence and better overall outcomes.

    Medical Affairs Services. We provide a range of scientific strategy and medical affairs services to help biopharmaceutical companies plan and transition from the clinical trial setting to commercialization. Beginning in the clinical trial stage, our services can deploy educators to clinical trial sites to accelerate patient recruitment and improve retention, assist in translation of complex clinical trial data into a compelling scientific platform and publication strategy, and, provide field medical teams to facilitate scientific engagement with key opinion leaders and healthcare decision makers, before and after product approval.

Our Clients

    Sales to companies in life sciences, including pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, device and diagnostic companies, and consumer health companies, account for the majority of our revenues. Nearly all of the top 100 global pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, measured by revenue, are clients, and many of these companies subscribe to reports and services in many countries. Other clients include payers, government and regulatory agencies, providers, pharmaceutical distributors, and pharmacies. Our client base is broad in scope and enables us to avoid dependence on any single client. No single client accounted for 10% or more of our total company revenues in 2020, 2019, or 2018. As of December 31, 2020 the largest client based on its percentage of total company revenue contributed approximately 5%.

Our Competition

    Our Technology & Analytics Solutions business competes with a broad and diverse set of businesses. While we believe no competitor provides the combination of geographical reach and breadth of its services, we generally compete in the countries in which we operate with other information, analytics, technology, services and consulting companies, as well as with the in-house capabilities of our clients. Also, we compete with certain government agencies, private payers and other healthcare stakeholders that provide their data directly to others. In addition to country- by-country competition, we have a number of regional and global competitors in the marketplace as well. Our offerings compete with various firms, including Accenture, Aetion, Panalgo, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Covance Inc., Deloitte, Evidera (now part of PPD), GfK, LexisNexis Risk Solutions, IBM, Infosys, Kantar Health (now part of Cerner Corporation), McKinsey, Nielsen, OptumInsight, PAREXEL International Corporation, Press Ganey, RTI Health Solutions, PRA Health Sciences, Tempus, Veeva, and ZS Associates. We also compete with a broad range of new entrants and start-ups that are looking to bring new technologies and business models to healthcare information services and technology services.

    The markets for Research & Development Solutions offerings are highly competitive, and we compete against traditional clinical research organizations (“CROs”), the in-house research and development departments of biopharmaceutical companies, universities, and teaching hospitals. Among the traditional CROs, there are several-hundred small, limited-service providers, several medium-sized firms and only a few full-service companies with global capabilities. Our primary competitors include Covance Inc., ICON plc, PAREXEL International Corporation, Pharmaceutical Product Development, Inc., PRA Health Sciences, and Syneos Health, among others.

10

    Our Contract Sales & Medical Solutions business competes against the in-house sales and marketing departments of biopharmaceutical companies, other contract pharmaceutical sales and service organizations and consulting firms. Contract Sales & Medical Solutions’ primary competitor in the United States is Syneos Health, Eversana and UDG Healthcare plc. Outside of the United States, Contract Sales & Medical Solutions typically competes against single country or more regionally focused service providers, such as UDG Healthcare plc, Syneos Health, EPS Corporation and CMIC HOLDINGS Co., Ltd.

Government Regulation

    Many aspects of our businesses are regulated by federal and state laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, we maintain a robust compliance program aimed at ensuring we operate our business in compliance with all existing legal requirements material to the operation of our businesses. There are, however, occasionally uncertainties involving the application of various legal requirements, the violation of which could result in, among other things, fines or other sanctions. See Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors” for additional detail.

    Good Clinical Practice

    Good Clinical Practice (“GCP”) regulations and guidelines are the industry standard for the conduct of clinical trials with respect to maintaining the integrity of the data and safety of the research subjects. The United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and most other global regulatory authorities expect that study results and data submitted to such authorities be based on clinical trials conducted in accordance with GCP provisions. Records for clinical trials must be maintained for specified periods for inspection by the FDA and other regulators.

    Regulation of Drugs, Biologics and Medical Devices

    In the United States, pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FDC Act”), the Public Health Service Act (“PHS Act”), and other federal and state statutes and regulations, govern, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, storage, recordkeeping, approval, labeling, promotion and marketing, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, sampling, and import and export of pharmaceutical, biological and medical device products. Failure to comply with applicable United States requirements may subject a company to a variety of administrative or judicial sanctions, such as FDA refusal to approve a pending new drug application (“NDA”) for a new drug, a biologics license application (“BLA”) for a new biological product pre-market approval (“PMA”) or clearance for a new medical device, warning or untitled letters, clinical holds, product recalls, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, civil penalties, and criminal prosecution.

    Regulation of Patient Information

    Our information management services relate to the processing of information regarding patient diagnosis and treatment of disease and are, therefore, subject to substantial governmental regulation. In addition, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which such patient-specific records may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business is heavily regulated. Federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information and personal financial data, as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement additional security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services.

    In particular, personal health information is recognized in many countries such as the United States, the European Union, or EU, and several countries in Asia, as a special, sensitive category of personal information, subject to additional mandatory protections. Violations of data protection regulations are subject to administrative penalties, civil money penalties and criminal prosecution, including corporate fines and personal liability.

    Regulation of Promotion, Marketing and Distribution of Pharmaceutical Products and Medical Devices

    Certain of our services are subject to detailed and comprehensive regulation in each geographic market in which we operate. Such regulation relates, among other things, to the distribution of drug samples, the marketing and promotion of approved products, the qualifications of sales representatives and the use of healthcare professionals in sales functions.
11


    In the United States, certain of our services are subject to numerous federal and state laws pertaining to promotional activities involving pharmaceutical products and medical devices. Certain of our services are subject to the FDA’s regulations against “off-label promotion,” which require sales representatives to restrict promotion of the approved product they are detailing to the approved labeling for the product. The Prescription Drug Marketing Act imposes licensing, personnel record keeping, packaging, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements. Other federal and state laws prohibit manufacturers, suppliers and providers from offering, giving or receiving kickbacks or other remuneration in connection with ordering or recommending the purchase or rental of healthcare items and services. The sale or distribution of pharmaceutical products and devices is also governed by the United States Federal Trade Commission Act and state consumer protection laws. We are subject to similar regulations currently in effect in the other countries where we offer Contract Sales & Medical Solutions.

    We are also subject to various laws and regulations that may apply to certain drug and device promotional practices, including, among others, various aspects of Medicare and federal healthcare programs. Violations of these laws and regulations may result in criminal and/or civil penalties, including possibly as an “aider and abettor.”

    Regulation of Laboratories

    Our United States laboratories are subject to licensing and regulation under federal, state and local laws relating to hazard communication and employee right-to-know regulations, and the safety and health of laboratory employees. Additionally, our United States laboratories are subject to applicable federal and state laws and regulations and licensing requirements relating to the handling, storage and disposal of hazardous waste, radioactive materials and laboratory specimens, including the regulations of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the Department of Transportation, the National Fire Protection Agency and the United States Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”). The use of controlled substances in testing for drugs with a potential for abuse is regulated in the United States by the DEA and by similar regulatory bodies in other parts of the world. Our United States laboratories using controlled substances for testing purposes are licensed by the DEA. The regulations of the United States Department of Transportation, Public Health Service and Postal Service apply to the surface and air transportation of laboratory specimens. Our laboratories also are subject to International Air Transport Association regulations, which govern international shipments of laboratory specimens. Furthermore, when the materials are sent to a foreign country, the transportation of such materials becomes subject to the laws, rules and regulations of such foreign country. Our laboratories outside the United States are subject to applicable national laws governing matters such as licensing, the handling and disposal of medical specimens, genetic material, hazardous waste and radioactive materials, as well as the health and safety of laboratory employees.

    In addition to its comprehensive regulation of safety in the workplace, the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for healthcare employers whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV and the hepatitis B virus. Although we believe that we are currently in compliance in all material respects with such federal, state and local laws, failure to comply with such laws could subject us to denial of the right to conduct business, fines, criminal penalties and other enforcement actions.
    
Further, laboratories that analyze human blood or other biological samples for the diagnosis and treatment of clinical trial subjects must comply with Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (“CLIA”), as well as requirements established by various states. The failure to meet these requirements may result in civil penalties and suspension or revocation of the CLIA certification.

Our Intellectual Property

    In addition to our proprietary data sets described above, we develop and use a number of proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property in the conduct of our business. We rely upon a combination of legal, technical, and administrative safeguards to protect our proprietary and confidential information and trade secrets, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect other intellectual property rights. We consider our trademark and related names, marks and logos to be of material importance to our business, and we have registered or applied for registration for certain of these trademarks including IQVIA, in the United States and other jurisdictions and aggressively seek to protect them. Trademarks and service marks generally may be renewed indefinitely so long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and so long as they have not been found to have become generic. The technology and other intellectual property rights owned and licensed by us are of importance to our business, although our management believes that our business, as a whole, is not dependent upon any one intellectual property or group of such properties.

12

Human Capital

Overview. Our approximately 70,000 employees help us drive our business success and achieve our ambition to advance human health. We are a diverse global team that shares a passion for collaboration and solving complex problems. Our workforce is comprised of a wide variety of professionals, including clinicians, data scientists, epidemiologists, and more.

Our culture is one in which employees are encouraged to apply their insight, curiosity, and intellectual courage across everything they do. The way we manage our people and the programs we offer our employees reflect our commitment to fostering this culture of empowerment and engagement.

Each one of our employees provide value, no matter where they sit within the organization. We are committed to creating an environment where all employees are respected and heard, where people from all backgrounds can contribute to and share in our growth, and where opportunity and advancement is available to everyone.

Employee Engagement. In 2020, we completed our second company-wide employee survey since the Merger between Quintiles and IMS Health in 2016. The survey provided a valuable opportunity to hear the perspectives of our workforce around the world.

In 2020, responses increased for this survey, and 81% of respondents indicated a favorable view of the Company's employee engagement, which was a 13 percentage point increase from our last company-wide employee survey in 2018, 4 points higher than the Fortune 500 benchmark and 5 points higher than the broader survey benchmark. The survey results indicate the actions we have taken over the past two years have had a positive impact. Other areas where we saw favorable scores were: Employees acquiring the knowledge and skills needed to be effective in their jobs (84%); employees feeling part of a team (84%); and employees who would recommend IQVIA as a great place to work (81%).

Protection and Support of our Employees During the COVID-19 Pandemic. As a company, we did our best to support our employees, preserve employment and maintain base compensation throughout the year. We accepted that our financial performance would be affected by the pandemic, but declined to make dramatic cuts that would impact the lives of our employees. We also launched the IQVIA Cares program to provide over $1 million of financial assistance to approximately 2,200 employees facing financial hardship resulting from the crisis. This program was entirely funded by our directors, senior leaders and other employees from around the world voluntarily forgoing a portion of their pay for a period of time. We continued to build a strong supportive culture around values of mutual respect and pride in the important work we do. This will endure far beyond the crisis.

The safety of employees, patients, healthcare professionals, customers and suppliers with whom we frequently interact was our highest priority as COVID-19 spread across the globe. To limit exposure, we substantially restricted travel, supplied personal protective equipment to field-based employees, closed facilities and asked most of our staff to work remotely. On short notice, we added bandwidth and VPN capacity to our advanced infrastructure to enable 95% of our employees at the peak of the pandemic to work remotely and avoid service disruptions. At the same time, we continued to maintain and enhance our cybersecurity protections, which included completing the global roll-out of our core Endpoint Detection & Response solution to all workstations, thus protecting them from cyber threats regardless of location and network status (on or off VPN), and accelerating the deployment of an Advance Response tool to enable bulk remediation of vulnerabilities on remote workstations.

Diversity and Inclusion. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is reflected in the various policies, programs, training and support we offer, including our Employee Resource Groups, manager diversity and inclusion training and our highly diverse global workforce.

Our global workforce operates in over 100 countries and represents approximately 80 different ethnicities. In the United States, approximately 63% of our employees identify as white and approximately 37% and 11% identify as non-White and Black or African American, respectively. Approximately 59% of our employees globally are female and approximately 51% of employees worldwide at a manager level are female.

Our growing network of Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) provides a framework for employees to connect and collaborate with colleagues with similar interests. These groups support our values and business goals and foster the diverse thinking required for innovation. They provide a forum for the exchange of ideas and opportunities for mentoring and professional development.

13

There are five global ERGs—all are employee-led, voluntary, and open to every employee. Each ERG has a mission that is aligned to our vision, values, and core operating principles.

•Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic Network Group (BAME): connects employees to provide a sense of community to support in the professional and personal development of Black, Asian and minority ethnic group employees across the organization.

•Emerging Professionals Group (EPG): fosters ambition and builds community among our leadership and talent pipeline for emerging professionals through networking, personal development, and volunteerism.

•Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT+) Group: supports the ability for all people at IQVIA to be their authentic selves by fostering an inclusive, equal, and inspiring culture for LGBT+ employees.

•Veterans Employee Resource Group (VERG): offers opportunities and support through the IQVIA community to its veteran and active service members and family.

•Women Inspired Network (WIN): fosters a corporate culture that inspires women to excel in their careers at IQVIA and within the biopharma industry.

In 2020, we grew our ERG membership to more than 2,500 participants worldwide, with multiple chapters being established across the globe. In response to COVID-19, the ERGs quickly pivoted and moved much of their engagement efforts online, hosting multiple virtual events and meet-ups to ensure the sense of community they provide to was not lost amid the pandemic.

Employee Well-being. Investing in resources and incentives to promote the personal well-being of our employees and their families is an important way we take care of our people. As a digital healthcare company, we also use our own in-house technical expertise to develop online tools to enable our employees to access resources quickly and seamlessly.

We provide a variety of health and welfare benefit plans that are available to employees and their family members, based on their location and specific country regulations. Plans may include medical, dental, and vision coverage; telemedicine and on-site medical care; critical illness coverage; disability, accidental death and dismemberment, pet and life insurance; tuition reimbursement; identity theft protection; commuter benefits; matching gift programs; and locally relevant savings and retirement plans such as pensions and 401(k) plans.

We provide parental leave for all full-time employees for the birth or adoption of a child, with variability in leave time dependent on location. We also provide paid leave for other life matters including sick time, bereavement, jury duty, military service, and time off for voting, depending on country specific policies.

Beyond health and welfare benefits, many regions also offer employee wellness programs. In the United States, our “Healthy You” wellness program offers employees a range of wellness benefits, including free flu shots, teledoc services, nutrition counseling, tobacco cessation support and reimbursement for wellness-related expenses.

Our Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is available to approximately 70% of our workforce worldwide. Our EAP is a free and voluntary program that offers confidential mental and emotional well-being support, including assessments, counseling, and follow-up services. In 2020, employees were faced with new and difficult burdens as the COVID-19 pandemic upended nearly everyone’s life. As the year unfolded, we saw an urgent need to address and assist all employees in helping them build resilience in response to the ongoing pandemic. As a result, we accelerated our plans to roll out our EAP to the remainder of our workforce. This acceleration will make support available to our entire global workforce in the second quarter of 2021 through a network of existing and new EAP programs and programs included in local benefit packages. In addition, we are exploring a training program for all managers on how to support team members who may be affected by the pandemic.

Compensation and Benefits. IQVIA compensation programs support our overall strategy by linking employee compensation with both business and personal performance. This approach to compensation demonstrates our “pay for performance” philosophy, as well as our focus on providing compensation program that attract, retain and motivate and reward employees. In addition to the benefits described above, our compensation programs include base salaries, annual bonuses, and long-term incentive awards.

14

Talent and Learning. Helping our people grow, develop, and reach their full potential is a key component of our management approach. Nurturing talent is critical in a highly competitive industry, and it also keeps our employees motivated and engaged.

We invest in our employees’ development throughout their careers at IQVIA through our various talent and learning initiatives. Our strategy is focused on supporting business growth, optimizing our offerings through enhanced digital tools, and building the future leaders of IQVIA. At the same time, we are working to transform the employee experience and evolve our performance management approach to be more responsive to our employees’ experiences. Mirroring our overall culture, our approach to talent and learning is underpinned by the philosophy of empowerment, and we encourage all employees to take ownership of their careers.

We offer a suite of formal and informal learning opportunities, many which focus on business specific topics such as regulatory compliance, technology, analytics, clinical and therapy areas, and more.

We want our employees to have meaningful careers, and we are committed to the idea that career development is a result of growth through new experiences. To foster this growth, we engage employees on their purpose, strengths, and agility. We encourage employees to remain curious and flexible towards their career, exploring opportunities across the organization. Employees take ownership for their development in partnership with managers, mentors, and others. Similarly, performance management is driven by ongoing conversations about priorities, contributions and development.

In 2020, we also introduced our Future Leaders Program, a robust training aimed to develop the next generation of leadership at IQVIA. More than 60 attendees from 18 countries were chosen to take part in this four-month program. In light of COVID-19, we rapidly adapted the program design to make it a fully virtual experience. Sessions consisted of live webinars co-led by senior executives, peer coaching, projects, and skills assessments. Feedback was positive, and we will bring together two more cohorts in 2021, targeting nearly 100 more participants from around the world.

Health and Safety. Ensuring the health and safety of our employees is essential, whether they work in our corporate offices or labs. We strive to create a culture of safety so our employees can remain healthy and productive.

We incorporate environmental laws and regulations into our policies and procedures throughout our organization. At the corporate level, we have group certifications to ISO 14001:2015 and ISO45001: 2018. In accordance with both certifications, we have a robust, integrated Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (EHSMS) with supporting standard operating procedures in place, which demonstrates our commitment to continuous improvement. Under our EHSMS, all employees must actively participate in helping to maintain a safe, healthy, and secure work environment. Our Code of Conduct describes the obligations of employees to maintain such an environment, follow all applicable safety and security rules and complete required training.

Q2 Solutions, our joint venture with Quest Diagnostics, operates laboratories in the United States, United Kingdom, Singapore, India, Japan, and China. Q2 facilities are certified to ISO 14001:2015 and ISO45001: 2018. Depending on the location and services provided accreditation also will include ISO 14001, CAP ISO 15189, ISO 9001, NGSP Level 1, ANVISA, ISO45001, CDC Lipids, CLIA, MOH Certified Laboratory.     

Available Information

    Our website address is www.iqvia.com, and our investor relations website is located at http://ir.iqvia.com. Information on our website is not incorporated by reference herein. Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and our Proxy Statements for our annual meetings of stockholders, and any amendments to those reports, as well as Section 16 reports filed by our insiders, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file the reports with, or furnish the reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) containing reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Information on the SEC’s website does not constitute part of this report. Also posted on our website are our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, the charters for our Audit Committee, Leadership Development and Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, our Corporate Governance Guidelines, and our Code of Conduct governing our directors, officers and employees. Copies of our SEC reports and corporate governance information are available in print upon the request of any stockholder to our Investor Relations Department. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we will post on our website any amendment to the Code of Conduct or any waiver of such policy applicable to any of our senior financial officers, executive officers or directors.