Ingersoll Rand Inc. is a diversified, global provider of mission-critical flow creation products and industrial solutions. The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Ingersoll Rand Inc. and its majority-owned subsidiaries (collectively referred to herein as “Ingersoll Rand,” “Company,” “we,” “us,” “our,” or “ourselves”).
Merger of Gardner Denver and Ingersoll Rand Industrial
On February 29, 2020, Ingersoll Rand Inc. (formerly known as Gardner Denver Holdings, Inc.) completed the acquisition of and merger with the Industrial business of Ingersoll-Rand plc (“Ingersoll Rand Industrial”) and changed its name from Gardner Denver Holdings, Inc. to Ingersoll Rand Inc.
See Note 3 “Business Combinations” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the Ingersoll Rand Industrial transaction.
Our Company
We are a global market leader with a broad range of innovative and mission-critical air, fluid, energy, specialty vehicle and medical technologies, providing services and solutions to increase industrial productivity and efficiency. We manufacture one of the broadest and most complete ranges of compressor, pump, vacuum and blower products in our markets, which, when combined with our global geographic footprint and application expertise, allows us to provide differentiated product and service offerings to our customers. Our products are sold under more than 40 market-leading brands, including Ingersoll Rand and Gardner Denver, which we believe are globally recognized in their respective end-markets and known for product quality, reliability, efficiency and superior customer service. We are driven by an entrepreneurial spirit and ownership mindset, dedicated to helping make life better for our employees, customers and communities.
These attributes, along with over 160 years of engineering heritage, generate strong brand loyalty for our products and foster long-standing customer relationships, resulting in leading market positions within each of our operating segments. We have sales in more than 175 countries and our diverse customer base utilizes our products across a wide array of end-markets, including industrial manufacturing, energy (with particular exposure to the North American upstream land-based market), transportation, medical and laboratory sciences, food and beverage packaging and chemical processing.
3
Table of Contents
Our products and services are critical to the processes and systems in which they are utilized, which are often complex and function in harsh conditions where the cost of failure or downtime is high. However, our products typically represent only a small portion of the costs of the overall systems or functions that they support. As a result, our customers place a high value on our application expertise, product reliability and the responsiveness of our service. To support our customers and market presence, we maintain significant global scale with 65 key manufacturing facilities, approximately 50 complementary service and repair centers across six continents and approximately 15,900 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2020.
The process-critical nature of our product applications, coupled with the standard wear and tear replacement cycles associated with the usage of our products, generates opportunities to support customers with our broad portfolio of aftermarket parts, consumables and services. Customers place a high value on minimizing any time their operations are offline. As a result, the availability of replacement parts, consumables and our repair and support services are key components of our value proposition. Our large installed base of products provides a recurring revenue stream through our aftermarket parts, consumables and services offerings. As a result, our aftermarket revenue is significant, representing 36.1% of total Company revenue and approximately 42.8% of our combined Industrial Technologies and Services and High Pressure Solutions segments’ revenue in 2020.
Our Segments
In conjunction with the acquisition of and merger with Ingersoll Rand Industrial in the first quarter of 2020, we reorganized into the following four segments.
Industrial Technologies and Services
We design, manufacture, market and service a broad range of air and gas compression, vacuum and blower products, fluid transfer equipment, loading systems, power tools and lifting equipment, including associated aftermarket parts, consumables and services. We primarily sell under the Ingersoll Rand, Gardner Denver, CompAir, Elmo Rietschle, Robuschi, Nash and Emco Wheaton brands. Our customers deploy our products across a wide array of technologies and applications for use in diverse end-markets. Compressors are used to increase the pressure of air or gas, vacuum products are used to remove air or gas in order to reduce the pressure below atmospheric levels, and blower products are used to produce a high volume of air or gas at low pressure. Almost every manufacturing and industrial facility, and many service and process industry applications, use air compression, vacuum and blower products in a variety of process-critical applications such as the operation of pneumatic tools, pumps and motion control components, air and gas separation, vacuum packaging of food products and aeration of waste water, among others. Our liquid ring vacuum pumps and compressors are used in many power generation, mining, oil and gas refining and processing, chemical processing and general industrial applications including flare gas and vapor recovery, geothermal gas removal, vacuum de-aeration, water extraction in mining and paper and chlorine compression in petrochemical operations. Our engineered loading systems and fluid transfer equipment ensure the safe handling and transfer of crude oil, liquefied natural gas, compressed natural gas, chemicals, and bulk materials. Our power tools and lifting equipment portfolio includes electric and cordless fastening systems, pneumatic bolting tools, drilling and material removal tools, hoists, winches and ergonomic handling devices. Typical applications for these products include the precision fastening of bolted joints in the production, assembly and servicing of industrial machinery, on-highway and off-highway vehicles, aircraft, electronics and other equipment.
Our compression products cover the full range of technologies, including rotary screw, reciprocating piston, scroll, rotary vane and centrifugal compressors. Our vacuum products and blowers also cover the full technology spectrum; vacuum technologies include side channel, liquid ring, claw vacuum, screw, turbo and rotary vane vacuum pumps among others, while blower technologies include rotary lobe blowers, screw, claw and vane, side channel and radial blowers. Our liquid ring vacuum pumps and compressors are highly-engineered products specifically designed for continuous duty in harsh environments to serve a wide range of applications, including oil and gas refining and processing, mining, chemical processing and industrial applications. In addition to our vacuum and blower technology, our engineered fluid loading and transfer equipment and systems ensure the safe and efficient transportation and transfer of petroleum products as well as certain other liquid commodity products in a wide range of industries.
We complement these products with a broad portfolio of service options tailored to customer needs and a complete range of aftermarket parts, air treatment equipment, controls and other accessories delivered through our global network of manufacturing and service locations and distributor partners. The breadth and depth of our product offering creates incremental business opportunities by allowing us to cross-sell our full product portfolio and uniquely address customers’ needs in one complete solution.
4
Table of Contents
We sell our products through an integrated network of direct sales representatives and independent distributors, which is strategically tailored to meet the dynamics of each target geography or end-market. Our large installed base also provides for a significant stream of recurring aftermarket revenue. For example, the useful life of a compressor is, on average, between 10 and 12 years. However, a customer typically services the compressor at regular intervals, starting within the first two years of purchase and continuing throughout the life of the product. The cumulative aftermarket revenue generated by a compressor over the product’s life cycle will typically exceed its original sale price.
Precision and Science Technologies
We design, manufacture and market a broad range of specialized positive displacement pumps, fluid management equipment, liquid and precision syringe pumps and compressors, and aftermarket parts for medical, laboratory, industrial manufacturing, water and wastewater, chemical processing, energy, food and beverage, agriculture and other markets. The Company’s products are used for a diverse set of applications including precision dosing of chemicals and supplements, blood dialysis, oxygen therapy, food processing, fluid transfer and dispensing, spray finishing and coating, mixing, high-pressure air and gas management and others. The Company sells primarily through a broad global network of specialized and national distributors and original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) who integrate the Company’s products into their devices and systems.
Specialty Vehicle Technologies
We design, manufacture and market golf, utility and consumer low-speed vehicles for commercial utility and personal transportation under the Club Car ® brand. Product offerings include new and used electric, gas and diesel-powered vehicles, accessories and aftermarket parts. Service offerings include repair and maintenance, short-term rentals and digital connectivity services that enable fleet management, entertainment and provide enhanced end-user experience.
Sales of golf car fleets and turf utility vehicles are primarily derived from golf courses owners and operators around the world. Utility, all-wheel drive, and multi passenger transport vehicles are used in commercial and maintenance applications at resorts and hospitality sites, government agencies and municipalities, manufacturing and construction firms, sports and other areas, colleges and universities and other commercial establishments. Our consumer vehicles are generally sold to individuals and families for personal transportation in residential communities, camp grounds and vacation locations. All of our low speed vehicles are highly featured, and highly customized for their application and are available in multiple colors, fabrics, power trains and accessories. The majority of sales are derived through a global network of independent distributors and dealers. We also sell our products directly to certain customers within the golf industry, through company-owned sales resources.
The Specialty Vehicle Technologies segment is entirely composed of businesses acquired as part of the Ingersoll Rand Industrial transaction. It had no operations prior to February 29, 2020 and is not included in our results of operations for prior periods.
High Pressure Solutions
We design, manufacture, market and service a diverse range of positive displacement pumps, integrated systems and associated aftermarket parts, consumables and services. The highly-engineered products offered by our High Pressure Solutions segment serve customers in the upstream energy market, as well as petrochemical processing, transportation and general industrial sectors. We are one of the largest suppliers of equipment and associated aftermarket parts, consumables and services for the upstream energy applications that we serve.
Our positive displacement pumps are fit-for-purpose to meet the demands and challenges of modern unconventional drilling and hydraulic fracturing activity. Our offering includes mission-critical oil and gas drilling pumps, frac pumps and well servicing pumps, in addition to sales of associated consumables used in the operation of our pumps. The products we sell into upstream energy applications are highly aftermarket-intensive, and we support these products in the field with one of the industry’s most comprehensive service networks, which encompasses locations across all major basins and shale plays in the North American land market. This service network is critical to serving our customers and, by supporting them in the field, to generating demand for new original equipment sales and aftermarket parts, consumables, service and repair sales which in aggregate are often multiples of the value of the original equipment.
Our customers provide drilling, completions and well services to oil and gas operators, particularly in the major basins and shale plays in the North American land market. We are one of the leading suppliers in these upstream energy applications and have long-standing customer relationships.
5
Table of Contents
Recent Developments
On February 14, 2021, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its High Pressure Solutions (“HPS”) business to private equity firm American Industrial Partners (“AIP”). Under the agreement, the Company will receive cash consideration of $300 million at close for its majority interest and retain a 45% ownership interest in the HPS business. This transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions.
See Note 25 “Subsequent Events” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction.
Our Industries and Products
Industrial Technologies and Services
Our Industrial Technologies and Services segment designs, manufactures, markets and services a broad range of air compression, vacuum and blower products across a wide array of technologies. Compression, vacuum and blower products are used in a wide spectrum of applications in nearly all manufacturing and industrial facilities and many service and process industries in a variety of end-markets, including infrastructure, construction, transportation, food and beverage packaging and chemical processing.
Compression Products
Sales to industrial end-markets include industrial air compression products, as well as associated aftermarket parts, consumables and services. Industrial air compressors compress air to create pressure to power machinery, industrial tools, material handling systems and automated equipment. Compressed air is also used in applications as diversified as snow making and fish farming, on high-speed trains and in hospitals. Compressors can be either stationary or portable, depending on the requirements of the application or customer.
We focus on five basic types of air compression technologies: rotary screw, reciprocating piston, scroll, rotary vane and centrifugal compressors. Rotary screw compressors are a newer technology than reciprocating compressors and exhibit better suitability for continuous processes due to a more compact size, less maintenance and better noise profile. We believe our reciprocating piston compressors provide one of the broadest ranges of pressures in the market and are supported by increasing demand across wide-ranging attractive end-markets. Scroll compressors are most commonly seen where less oil-free air is needed, and is most commonly used in medical and food applications where the need for pure, clean and precise air is of great importance. Rotary vane compressors feature high efficiency, compact compression technology and can be found throughout all sectors of industry, including automotive, food and beverage, energy and manufacturing with specialized solutions within transit, gas and snow making. Centrifugal compressors are most effective when in applications that demand larger quantities of oil-free air and are utilized across a wide range of industries.
Vacuum Products
Industrial vacuum products are integral to manufacturing processes in applications for packaging, pneumatic conveying, drying, holding / lifting, distillation, evacuation, forming / pressing, removal and coating. Within each of these processes are a multitude of sub-applications. As an example of one such end-process, within packaging, a vacuum will be used on blister packaging, foil handling, labeling, carton erection, stacking and palletizing (placing, stacking or transporting goods on pallets), as well as central vacuum supply for entire packaging departments.
We focus on five basic types of vacuum technologies: side channel, liquid ring, claw vacuum, screw and rotary vane vacuum pumps. Side channel vacuum pumps are used for conveying gases and gas-air mixtures in a variety of applications, including laser printers, packaging, soil treatment, textiles and food and beverage products. Liquid ring vacuum pumps are used for extreme conditions, which prevail in humid and wet processes across ceramics, environmental, medical and plastics applications. Claw vacuum pumps efficiently and economically generate contact-free vacuum for chemical, environmental and packaging applications. Screw vacuum pumps are a dry running technology used to reduce the carbon footprint and life cycle costs in drying and packaging applications. Rotary vane vacuum pumps are used for vacuum and combined pressure and vacuum applications in the environmental, woodworking, packaging and food and beverage end-markets.
6
Table of Contents
Blower Products
Blower products are used for conveying high volumes of air and gas at various flow rates and at low pressures, and are utilized in a broad range of industrial and environmental applications, including waste water aeration, biogas upgrading and conveying, pneumatic transport and dehydrating applications for food and beverage, cement, pharmaceutical, petrochemical and mobile industrial applications. In many cases, blowers are a core component for the operation of the entire end-users’ systems. Management believes that we hold a leading position in our addressable portion of the global blower products market.
We focus on several key technologies within blower products: rotary lobe, screw, claw and vane, turbo, side channel and radial blowers. Rotary lobe blowers, screw blowers and claw and vane blowers are positive displacement technologies that have the ability to consistently move the same volume of gas or air and vary the volume flow according to the speed of the machine itself enabling it to adapt the flow condition in a flexible manner despite pressure in the system. Turbo blowers and side channel and radial blowers are dynamic technologies that have the ability to accelerate gas or air through an impeller and transform their kinetic energy at the discharge with some limitation on flexibility.
Fluid Transfer Equipment Products
Fluid transfer equipment products includes fluid loading systems, tank truck and fleet fueling products and couplers. Fluid loading systems are used in the transfer and loading of hydrocarbons and certain other liquid commodity products in marine and land applications. Tank truck and fleet fueling products allow for safe transfer of liquid products without spillage or contamination while safeguarding the operator and the environment. Operators use Dry-Break® technology couplers and adapters to provide a secure connection for the transfer of liquid products without spillage or contamination while safeguarding the operator and the environment.
Liquid Ring Vacuum Pumps and Compressors
Liquid ring vacuum pumps and compressors are designed for continuous duty in harsh environments, including vapor and flare gas recovery equipment (which recovers and compresses certain polluting gases to transmit them for further processing), primarily in downstream applications. The liquid ring technology utilizes a service liquid, typically water, oil or fuel, to evacuate or compress gas by forming a rotating ring of liquid that follows the contour of the body of the pump or compressor and acts like a piston to deliver an uninterrupted flow of gas without pulsation.
Precision and Science Technologies
The Precision and Science Technologies segment designs, manufactures and markets a broad range of flow control products for the water and wastewater, food & beverage, chemical processing, precision irrigation, energy, medical equipment, laboratory vacuum and automated liquid handling end-markets. Key technologies include positive displacement pumps, gas, liquid and precision syringe pumps, automated liquid handling systems and hydrogen refueling stations.
Our gas pumps are used for a wide range of applications, such as aspirators, blood analyzers, blood pressure monitors, compression therapy, dental carts, dialysis machines, gas monitors and ventilators. Gas pumps transfer and compress gases and generate vacuum to enable precise flow conditions. Our liquid pump products are primarily used to meter and transfer both neutral and chemically aggressive fluids and our automated liquid handling products, which includes syringe pumps, systems and accessories that are integrated into large-scale, automated liquid handling systems, are primarily used for clinical, pharmaceutical and environmental analyses.
Our products are also used for water treatment in municipal, industrial and commercial applications; for pressuring and dispensing in the H2 mobility segment of the hydrogen economy; and for precision irrigation.
Customers in the durable medical pump end-market and the automated liquid handling end-market develop and manufacture equipment used in a highly regulated environment requiring highly specialized technologies. As a result, relationships with customers are built based on a supplier’s long-term reputation, expertise and deep involvement throughout a product’s evolution, from concept to long-term commercialization. Customers value suppliers who can provide global research and development, regulatory and manufacturing support, as well as a sales footprint and expertise to foster close relationships with key decision-makers at their company. Combined with the long product life cycle in the regulated medical device space, these factors create a strong, recurring base of business. As a leading pump manufacturer in these markets, we have established a history of innovation that enables us to work closely with our customers to create highly customized flow control solutions for their unique applications. These products are mission-critical in the ultimate device in which they are deployed and remain a
7
Table of Contents
key component over the entire lifecycle of the end products. The regulated market structure and nature of long-tenured customer relationships enable pump manufacturers to have a highly visible, recurring revenue stream from key customers.
Specialty Vehicle Technologies
The Company designs, manufactures and markets Club Car ® golf, utility and consumer low-speed vehicles. The Company has a long-standing track record as a leading premium manufacturer with strong brand recognition. Its customers include golf course operators, resorts and hospitality sites, government agencies and municipalities, manufacturing and construction firms, sports and other arenas, colleges and universities and other commercial establishments, as well as individual consumers. The Company sells its products primarily through independent distributors in over eighty countries worldwide and also sells its products directly to consumers.
High Pressure Solutions
Through the manufacture and aftermarket service of pumps and associated aftermarket parts and consumables used in drilling, hydraulic fracturing and well servicing applications, our High Pressure Solutions segment is well-positioned to capitalize on an upstream recovery, particularly in the North American land-based market, where our customers include market-leading hydraulic fracturing (also known as pressure pumping) and contract drilling service companies, as well as certain other types of well service companies. Sales to upstream energy end-markets consist of positive displacement pumps and associated aftermarket parts, most notably fluid ends, as well as consumables and services.
•Positive displacement pumps in the upstream energy end-market primarily move fluid to assist in drilling, hydraulic fracturing and well servicing applications. The majority of positive displacement pumps we sell are frac pumps, which experience significant service intensity during use in the field and, as such, typically have useful life spans of approximately four to six years before needing to be replaced. During that useful life, such pumps will need to receive intermittent repairs as well as major overhauls. In addition, we also sell positive displacement pumps that are used in drilling and well servicing applications.
•Fluid ends are a key component of positive displacement pumps that generate the pumping action, along with other parts, such as plungers, and consumables, such as valves, seats and packing, which pressurizes the fluid, in the case of drilling or well servicing applications, or fluid and proppant mixture, in the case of hydraulic fracturing, and propels such fluid or mixture out of the pump and into a series of flow lines that distribute the fluid or mixture into the well. Fluid ends are incorporated in original equipment pumps, and due to the highly corrosive nature of the fluids and the abrasive nature of the proppants used in hydraulic fracturing operations, need to be frequently replaced.
The level of profitability at which new wells can be drilled is a primary driver of drilling and completions activities, including hydraulic fracturing. Thus, demand for our High Pressure Solutions products is driven by the prices of crude oil and natural gas, and the intensity and activity levels of drilling and hydraulic fracturing.
Competition
Industrial Technologies and Services
The industrial end-markets we serve are competitive, with an increasing focus on product quality, performance, energy efficiency, customer service and local presence. Although there are several large manufacturers of compression, vacuum and blower products, the marketplace for these products remains highly fragmented due to the wide variety of product technologies, applications and selling channels. Our principal competitors in sales of compression, vacuum and blower products include Atlas Copco AB, Colfax Corp., Flowserve Corporation, IDEX Corporation and Kaeser Compressors, Inc. Our principal competitors in sales of fluid transfer equipment include Dover Corporation, SVT GmbH and TechnipFMC plc. Our principal competitors in the sale of liquid ring pumps and compressors are Flowserve Corporation and Busch-Holding GmbH.
Precision and Science Technologies
Competition in the market served by our Precision and Science Technologies segment is primarily based on product quality and performance, as most products must be qualified by the customer for a particular use. Further, there is an increasing demand for more efficient healthcare solutions, which is driving the adoption of premium and high performance systems. Our primary competitors include IDEX Corporation, Dover Corporation, Graco, SPX Flow, Watson-Marlow, Inc., KNF Neuberger, Inc. and Thermo Fisher Scientific, as well as other regional and local manufacturers.
8
Table of Contents
Specialty Vehicle Technologies
Competition in the markets served by our Specialty Vehicles Technologies segment is primarily based on product quality, performance and reliability, and strength of distribution network. Principal competitors in the golf and utility markets include E-Z-Go and Yamaha Golf Car Company. Competitors in utility markets also include Toro, John Deere and Polaris. Competition in the market for neighborhood electric vehicles (“NEVs”) and other small electric vehicles used for recreational and commercial purposes is more disaggregated and evolving regularly due to changes in technology and consumer preferences.
High Pressure Solutions
The competitive landscape is specific to the end-markets served. Our principal competitor for drilling pumps is National Oilwell Varco Inc., and for frac pumps is The Weir Group. Additionally, we compete with certain smaller, regional manufacturers of pumps and aftermarket parts, although these are not direct competitors for most of our products.
Customers and Customer Service
We consider superior customer service to be one of our primary pillars of future success and view it as being built upon a foundation of critical application expertise, an industry leading range of compressor, pump, vacuum and blower products, a global manufacturing and sales presence and a long-standing reputation for quality and reliability. Intense customer focus is at the center of our vision of becoming the industry’s first choice for innovative and application-critical flow control and compression equipment, services and solutions. We strive to collaborate with our customers and become an essential part of their engineering process by drawing on our deep industry and application engineering experience to develop best-in-class products that are critical to the processes and systems in which they operate.
We have established strong and long-standing customer relationships with numerous industry leaders. We sell our products directly to end-use customers and to certain OEMs, and indirectly through independent distributors and sales representatives.
We use a direct sales force to serve end-use customers and OEMs because these customers typically require higher levels of technical assistance, more coordinated shipment scheduling and more complex product service than customers that purchase through distributors. We have distribution centers and warehouses that stock parts, accessories and certain products to provide adequate and timely availability.
In addition to our direct sales force, we are also committed to developing and supporting our global network of over 1,000 distributors and representatives who provide a competitive advantage in the markets and industries we serve. These distributors maintain an inventory of complete units and parts and provide aftermarket services to end-users. While most distributors provide a broad range of products from different suppliers, we view our distributors as exclusive at the product category level (e.g. compressor, vacuum and blower). For example, a distributor may exclusively carry our compressor technologies, and also source additional components of the broader industrial system in which those products operate from other suppliers. Our service personnel and product engineers provide the distributors’ service representatives with technical assistance and field training, particularly with respect to installation and repair of equipment. We also provide our distributors with sales and product literature, advertising and sales promotions, order-entry and tracking systems and an annual restocking program. Furthermore, we participate in major trade shows and directly market our offerings to generate sales leads and support the distributors’ sales personnel.
Our customer base is diverse, and we did not have any customers that individually provided more than 1% of 2020 consolidated revenues.
Patents, Tradenames, and Other Intellectual Property
We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, tradenames, copyrights, trade secrets and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. While in the aggregate our more than 2,400 patents and our tradenames are of considerable importance to the manufacture and marketing of many of our products, we believe that the success of our business depends more on the technical competence, creativity and marketing abilities of our employees than on any individual patent or tradename, and therefore we do not consider any single patent or tradename, group of patents or tradenames, copyright or trade secret to be material to our business as a whole, except for the Ingersoll Rand and Gardner Denver tradenames. We have registered our tradenames in the countries we deem necessary or in our best interest. We also rely upon trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and techniques, and we routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees as well as our suppliers and other third parties receiving such information.
9
Table of Contents
Pursuant to tradename license agreements, Cooper Industries has exclusive rights to use the Gardner Denver tradename for certain power tools and their components, meaning that we are prevented from using our mark in connection with those products.
Raw Materials and Suppliers
We purchase a wide variety of raw materials to manufacture our products. Our most significant commodity exposures are to cast iron, aluminum and steel. Additionally, we purchase a large number of motors and, therefore, are also exposed to changes in the price of copper, which is a primary component of motors. Most of our raw materials are generally available from a number of suppliers. We have a limited number of long-term contracts with some suppliers of key components, but we believe that our sources of raw materials and components are reliable and adequate for our needs. We use single sources of supply for certain castings, motors and other select engineered components. A disruption in deliveries from a given supplier could therefore have an adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments to our customers. Nevertheless, we believe that we have appropriately balanced this risk against the cost of maintaining a greater number of suppliers. Moreover, we have sought, and will continue to seek, cost reductions in purchases of materials and supplies by consolidating purchases and pursuing alternate sources of supply.
Human Capital Management
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 15,900 employees of which approximately 5,900 are located in the United States. Of those employees located outside of the United States, a significant portion are represented by works councils and labor unions; of those employees located in the United States, approximately 200 are represented by labor unions. We believe that our current relations with employees are satisfactory.
We evaluate several metrics to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of our human capital management practices, including voluntary turnover and engagement. In 2020, our voluntary turnover for hourly employees was 7.8% and 6.7% for our salaried employees.
We are now introducing a new performance management and development process, which places a heavy emphasis on manager engagement and employee ownership. We highlight employee development and engagement as a standard part of our employee experience.
Health & Safety
Our Environmental, Health, and Safety culture is focused on ensuring the health of our employees by eliminating risks of serious injuries, illness and fatalities through the application of rigorous standards, controls, inspections and audits to help ensure that our operations and premises comply with national and local regulations.
In response to COVID-19 we implemented various measures to protect the health and safety of our employees and customers including work-from-home requirements (where practical), social distancing, contact tracing, enhanced hygiene education and deep-cleaning protocols at all of our facilities as well as travel restrictions, among other measures, complying with applicable governmental regulations and guidance.
Competitive Pay, Benefits and Equity
We think and act like owners. We are driven by an entrepreneurial spirit and an ownership mindset, inspiring us to care deeply about our neighbors and shared planet. In support of this, on September 21, 2020, Ingersoll Rand announced an approximately $150 million equity grant to nearly 16,000 employees worldwide.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
As a newly merged company, Ingersoll Rand re-established its commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DE&I”) in 2020. We focused our efforts in a number of areas, beginning with our vision:
Ingersoll Rand’s Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Commitment for our Employees, Partners and Communities:
•We will be a DE&I leader within our industry that mirrors the communities and customers we serve. We will leverage diversity, equity and inclusion to exceed our business goals, attract and retain the best talent, and address today’s global challenges.
10
Table of Contents
•Connecting to our value of fostering inspired teams, we cultivate diversity, promote equity and pursue a more inclusive culture that strengthens the sense of belonging for all. We expect individuals to uphold these aspirations with humility, integrity and respect.
This year, we engaged Management Leadership for Tomorrow (“MLT”) to help solidify our strategy and identify clear initiatives to increase representation of underrepresented populations, create greater growth and advancement for all, and accelerate a culture of inclusion.
In terms of diverse representation, we have two focus areas: 1) underrepresented populations in the United States and 2) women globally. Our current employee base consists of 25% underrepresented populations in the U.S. with a 2025 target to increase to 30%. Globally, women represent 22% of our population with a goal of reaching 27% by 2025.
Ingersoll Rand recently launched three initial Employee Inclusion Groups to build stronger global connections, advocate for positive change and foster an inclusive culture in the organization. An executive leader sponsors each group and provides guidance to establish goals in support of our company strategies, culture and values to their global members.
•Black Employee Network Inclusion Group
•Veterans Inclusion Group
•Women Inclusion Group
In addition, we are setting the groundwork for inclusion by training our employees on unconscious bias and how to recognize bias in the workplace and in ourselves. In 2020, we also introduced a powerful initiative called “Lean into Change” where employees from across the company participated in culturally sensitive conversations with trust and transparency. Profiles in Diversity Journal recognized this initiative by awarding us a Top 10 Innovations in Diversity Award.
Talent Development and Employee Engagement
We are committed to continuously improving the development and engagement of all employees in the company. Our last Connections/Engagement survey in September 2020 included a 95% participation rate, resulting in a 76% engagement level, one point above the manufacturing norm as collected by GLINT, our engagement survey partner. Our efforts on employee development for 2020 focused on building a strong foundation in the company. We conducted “Purpose and Values” interactive sessions for all our employees. This effort was also recognized from the Profiles of Diversity Journal with an Award of Excellence for bringing to life our Purpose and Values. We followed these sessions with training about our specific value of, “We think and act like owners.” In the latter training, we taught our employees how they can impact our net working capital metric locally to drive greater cash conversion in the business.
As a result of all of our Human Capital Management activities, we reflect our value of “We foster inspired teams.” We nurture and celebrate a culture that embraces diverse points of views, backgrounds and experiences. We are committed to equity in how people are treated and the opportunities available to them because we know that a workplace that cultivates a sense of inclusion, belonging and respect will develop the most talented and capable employees.
Environmental Matters
We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the storage, handling, emission and disposal of materials and discharge of materials into the environment. We believe our existing environmental control procedures are adequate and we have no current plans for substantial capital expenditures in this area. We have an environmental policy that confirms our commitment to a clean environment and compliance with environmental laws. We have an active environmental management program aimed at complying with existing environmental regulations and reducing the generation of pollutants in the manufacturing processes. We are also subject to laws concerning the cleanup of hazardous substances and wastes, such as the U.S. federal “Superfund” and similar state laws that impose liability for cleanup of certain waste sites and for related natural resource damages. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party with respect to several sites designated for cleanup under the “Superfund” or similar state laws. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.”
Where You Can Find More Information
We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our SEC filings are available to the public over the internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
11
Table of Contents
Our SEC filings are also available free of charge on our website at http://www.irco.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with or furnished to the SEC.
We maintain an internet site at http://www.irco.com. From time to time, we may use our website as a distribution channel of material company information. Financial and other important information regarding us is routinely accessible through and posted on our website at www.investors.irco.com. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the Email Alerts section at www.investors.irco.com. Our website and the information contained on or connected to that site are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.