Company Background
Intuitive is committed to advancing patient care in surgery and other acute medical interventions. The Company is focused on innovating to enable physicians and healthcare providers to improve the quality of and access to minimally invasive care. Our mission reflects that we believe that minimally invasive care is life-enhancing care. Intuitive brings more than two decades of leadership in robotic-assisted surgical technology and solutions to its offerings. While surgery and acute interventions have improved significantly in the past decades, there remains a significant need for better outcomes and decreased variability of these outcomes across care teams. The current healthcare environment continues to stress critical resources, including the professionals who staff care teams: surgeons, anesthesiologists, nurses, and other staff. At the same time, governments strain to cover the healthcare needs of their populations and demand lower total cost per patient to treat disease. In the face of these challenges, we believe scientific, process, and technological advances in biology, computing, imaging, algorithms, and robotics offer new methods to solve continued and difficult problems.
We address these needs by focusing on the quadruple aim. First, we focus on products and services that can improve outcomes and decrease variability in the hands of care teams. Second, we seek to improve the patient experience by minimizing disruption to lives and creating greater predictability for the treatment experience. Third, we seek to improve care team satisfaction by creating products and services that are dependable, smart, and optimized for the care environment in which they are used. Finally, we seek to lower the total cost to treat per patient episode when compared with existing treatment alternatives, providing a return on investment for hospitals and healthcare systems and value for payers.
By striving to find less invasive ways to enter the body, provide clearer views of anatomy and more precise tissue interactions, and helping hone surgical skills, Intuitive launched its first da Vinci Surgical System in 1999. In 2000, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) cleared da Vinci for general laparoscopic surgery.
The da Vinci Surgical System is designed to enable complex surgery using a minimally invasive approach. It consists of an ergonomic surgeon console or consoles, a patient-side cart with an interactive arm or arms, a high-performance vision system, and proprietary instruments and accessories. Surgeons using the da Vinci system operate while seated comfortably at a console viewing a three-dimensional, high definition (“3DHD”) image of the surgical field. This immersive visualization connects surgeons to the surgical field and their instruments. While seated at the console, the surgeon manipulates instrument controls in a natural manner, similar to the open surgery approach. Our technology is designed to provide surgeons with a range of motion analogous to the motions of a human wrist, while filtering out the tremors inherent in a surgeon’s hands. In designing our products, we focus on making our technology easy and safe to use.
Our da Vinci Surgical Systems provide the following features and benefits to surgeons:
Immersive 3DHD Visualization. Our vision system includes a 3DHD endoscope with two independent vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through sophisticated image processing electronics. The da Vinci Surgical System provides visualization of the target anatomy with natural depth-of-field and magnification that is intended to facilitate accurate tissue identification and tissue layer differentiation. With our Firefly Fluorescence Imaging technology, surgeons can use our specialized imaging hardware in combination with an injectable fluorescent dye to visualize vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts beneath tissue surfaces in real-time.
Precise and Tremor-Free Endoscope Control. Our imaging system also incorporates our proprietary camera control technology that allows the surgeon to easily change, move, zoom, and rotate his or her field of vision. Surgeons can reposition the surgical camera quickly with foot controls or zoom in, out, up, down, left, or right by moving their hands while maintaining a stable image.
Advanced Instruments. We offer a comprehensive suite of stapling, energy, and core instrumentation for our surgical systems. Most of our proprietary instruments feature EndoWrist technology, incorporating “wrist” joints. Inspired by the human hand, our wristed instruments enable surgeons to orient the instruments carefully relative to the tissue and suture with precision, just as they can in open surgery.
4
Table of Contents
Intuitive Instrument Movements. Our technology is designed to transform the surgeon’s natural hand movements outside of the body into corresponding micro-movements inside the patient’s body. For example, with the da Vinci Surgical System, a hand movement to the right outside of the body causes the instrument inside the patient to be moved to the right. In contrast, conventional minimally invasive surgery (“MIS”) instruments are long, rigid levers that rotate around a fulcrum, or pivot point, located at the port created in the body wall. In conventional MIS, the instrument tip moves in the opposite direction from the surgeon’s hand, and surgeons must adjust their hand-eye coordination to compensate for the direction reversal by the pivot.
Scaled, Tremor Filtered Instrument Movement. With our technology, a surgeon can also use “motion scaling,” a feature that translates, for example, a three-millimeter hand movement outside the patient’s body into a one-millimeter instrument movement in the surgical field inside the patient’s body. Motion scaling is designed to allow precision and control for delicate tasks. In addition, our technology filters the tremor inherent in a surgeon’s hands.
Improved Surgeon Ergonomics. The da Vinci Surgical System is designed to allow surgeons to operate while seated, which may be clinically advantageous because of reduced surgeon fatigue. The da Vinci Surgical System’s design provides natural hand-eye alignment at the surgeon’s console. Because the da Vinci Surgical System’s robotic arms hold the camera and instruments steady, there is less surgeon and assistant fatigue.
Multi-Specialty Surgical Platform. The da Vinci Surgical System is designed to enable surgeons to perform a wide range of surgical procedures within our targeted gynecologic, urologic, general surgery, cardiothoracic, and head and neck specialties. To date, surgeons have used the da Vinci Surgical System to perform dozens of different types of surgical procedures. While we do not expect all of these different types of procedures to become widely adopted, they demonstrate the flexibility of the da Vinci Surgical System.
Advanced Training Tools. Training technologies include our Simulation program, which provides for independent da Vinci skills development through interactive Virtual Reality (“VR”) exercises, and our telementoring program, which provides real-time, surgeon-to-surgeon learning and collaboration during robotic-assisted surgery with a da Vinci Surgical System.
Additionally, the FDA cleared Iris, Intuitive’s augmented reality imaging product, for use in kidney procedures. Iris extracts CT scans, runs them through machine-learning algorithms, and returns a segmented model of the kidney for use in planning for a procedure and for intraoperative visualization of the area. The tool uses augmented reality to give surgeons an image with details of the kidney anatomy – blood vessels, tumor shape, and size – that they may not be able to see well with other imaging. Intuitive designed Iris, among other things, to be shared as a teaching tool among surgeons to coordinate approaches to complex cases. It can also be part of the viewing experience during a procedure to enhance information and let surgeons know where critical anatomy sits as they work through a procedure.
In 2019, the FDA cleared our Ion endoluminal system, which enables minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. Our Ion system is a flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform that utilizes instruments and accessories, which extends our commercial offering beyond surgery into diagnostic, endoluminal procedures with this first application. Many suspicious lesions found in the lung may be small and difficult to access, which can make diagnosis challenging, and Ion helps physicians obtain tissue samples from deep within the lung, which could help enable earlier diagnosis.
Products
da Vinci Surgical Systems
Intuitive’s primary platform for robotic-assisted surgery is our family of da Vinci Surgical Systems. We have commercialized four generational platforms of da Vinci Surgical Systems: our fourth generation da Vinci X, da Vinci Xi, and da Vinci SP Surgical Systems, our third generation da Vinci Si Surgical System, our second generation da Vinci S Surgical System, and our first generation da Vinci standard Surgical System. Da Vinci Surgical Systems are comprised of the following components:
Surgeon’s Console. The da Vinci Surgical System allows surgeons to operate while comfortably seated at an ergonomic console viewing a 3DHD image of the surgical field. The surgeon’s fingers grasp instrument controls below the display with the surgeon’s hands naturally positioned relative to his or her eyes. Using electronic hardware, software, algorithms, and mechanics, our technology translates the surgeon’s hand movements into precise and corresponding real-time micro movements of the da Vinci instruments positioned inside the patient. On most of our current systems (da Vinci X, da Vinci Xi, and da Vinci Si), a second surgeon’s console may be used in two ways: to provide assistance to the primary surgeon during surgery or to act as an active aid during surgeon-proctor training sessions. With the da Vinci X, da Vinci Xi, and da Vinci Si, a surgeon sitting at a second console can view the same surgery as the primary surgeon and can be passed control of some or all of the da Vinci instruments during the surgery. In addition, surgeons can control 3D virtual pointers to augment the dual-surgeon experience.
5
Table of Contents
Patient-Side Cart. The patient-side cart holds electromechanical arms that manipulate the instruments inside the patient. Up to four arms attached to the cart can be positioned, as appropriate, and then locked into place. At least two arms hold surgical instruments, one representing the surgeon’s left hand and one representing the surgeon’s right hand. A third arm positions the endoscope, allowing the surgeon to easily move, zoom, and rotate the field of vision. A fourth instrument arm extends surgical capabilities by enabling the surgeon to add a third instrument to perform additional tasks. The fourth instrument arm is a standard, integrated feature on the da Vinci X, da Vinci Xi, and da Vinci Si Surgical Systems. Our da Vinci SP Surgical System includes a single arm with three, multi-jointed, wristed instruments and the first da Vinci fully wristed, 3DHD camera. The instruments and the camera all emerge through a single cannula and are triangulated around the target anatomy to avoid external instrument collisions that can occur in narrow surgical workspaces.
3DHD Vision System. Our vision system includes our InSite 3D endoscope with two separate vision channels linked to two separate color monitors through high performance video cameras and specialized image processing hardware. The resulting 3DHD image has high resolution, high contrast, low flicker, and low cross fading. A digital zoom feature in the 3DHD vision system allows surgeons to magnify the surgical field of view without adjusting the endoscope position and, thereby, reduces interference between the endoscope and instruments. The 3DHD vision system is a standard, integrated feature on the da Vinci X, da Vinci Xi, da Vinci SP, da Vinci Si, and da Vinci S Surgical Systems.
Skills Simulator. The Skills Simulator is a practice tool that gives a user the opportunity to practice their skills and gain familiarity with the surgeon console controls. The Skills Simulator incorporates 3D, physics-based computer simulation technology to immerse the user within a virtual environment and provides training capabilities that have been used extensively by surgeons. The user navigates through the environment and completes exercises by controlling virtual instruments from the surgeon console. Upon completion of a skills exercise, the Skills Simulator provides a quantitative assessment of user performance based on a variety of task-specific metrics. The Skills Simulator is intended to augment, not replace, existing training programs for the da Vinci X, da Vinci Xi, and da Vinci SP Surgical Systems.
Da Vinci Xi Integrated Table Motion. Integrated Table Motion coordinates the movements of the da Vinci robotic arms with an advanced operating room table, the TS 7000dV OR Table sold by HillromTM, to enable managing the patient’s position in real-time while the da Vinci robotic arms remain docked. This gives operating room teams the capability to optimally position the operating table during da Vinci Surgical System procedures. Integrated Table Motion enables surgeons to maximize reach, facilitate access, and choose the angle of approach to target anatomy, as well as reposition the table during the procedure to enhance anesthesiologists’ management of the patient.
Firefly Fluorescence Imaging. Firefly is a standard feature of the da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi Surgical Systems and is available on our da Vinci Si Surgical System. This imaging capability combines a fluorescent dye with a specialized da Vinci camera head, endoscope, and laser-based illuminator to allow surgeons to identify vasculature, tissue perfusion, or biliary ducts in three dimensions beneath tissue surfaces to visualize critical anatomy. Firefly is typically used in the procedure categories of urology, gynecology, and general surgery.
Informatics
Intuitive Cloud. The vast majority of our systems are connected to the Intuitive cloud to enable proactive monitoring and provide software updates.
SimNow. Our cloud-enabled SimNow simulation platform is our latest generation simulator, which allows surgeons to learn and practice their surgical skills. SimNow is compatible with multiple da Vinci platforms and can be connected to the internet. The SimNow online connection drives real-time simulation performance tracking for surgeons and administrators through an online dashboard and supports remote updates of the VR content and 3DHD videos to drive a more interactive and engaging customer experience.
Iris. In February 2019, the FDA cleared Iris, Intuitive’s augmented reality imaging product, for use in kidney procedures. Iris extracts CT scans, runs them through machine-learning algorithms, and returns a segmented model of the kidney for use in planning for a procedure and for intraoperative visualization of the area. The tool uses augmented reality to give surgeons an image with details of the kidney anatomy – blood vessels, tumor shape, and size – that they may not be able to see well with other imaging. Intuitive designed Iris to be shared as a teaching tool among surgeons to coordinate approaches to complex cases, for example. It can also be part of the viewing experience during a procedure to enhance information and let surgeons know where critical anatomy sits as they work through a procedure. We are currently only using Iris in pilot studies. We launched our first pilot site in the U.S. in December 2019 and have five pilot sites as of December 31, 2020.
6
Table of Contents
Instruments and Accessories
Da Vinci Instruments. We manufacture a variety of instruments, most of which incorporate EndoWrist technology with wristed joints for natural dexterity and tips customized for various surgical procedures. Da Vinci instruments are offered in a variety of diameters, of which 8mm and 12mm diameter sizes are the most commonly sold. Various da Vinci instrument tips include forceps, scissors, electrocautery tools, scalpels, and other surgical tools that are familiar to the surgeon from open surgery and conventional MIS. A variety of instruments may be selected and used interchangeably during a surgery. Most instruments are sterilizable at the hospital, while others are provided sterile, and most are reusable for a defined number of procedures. A programmed memory chip inside each instrument performs several functions that help determine how the da Vinci system and instruments work together. In addition, the chip will generally not allow the instrument to be used for more than the prescribed number of procedures to help ensure that its performance meets specifications during each procedure.
In 2020, we introduced our "Extended Use Program," which consists of select da Vinci Xi and da Vinci X instruments possessing 12 to 18 uses ("Extended Use Instruments") compared to the prior 10 use instruments. These Extended Use Instruments represent some of our higher volume instruments but exclude stapling, monopolar, and advanced energy instruments. Instruments included in the program are used across a number of da Vinci procedures. Their increased uses are the result of continuous, significant investments in the design and production capabilities of our instruments, resulting in improved quality and durability. We introduced Extended Use Instruments in the U.S. in October 2020 and in Europe in November 2020. We expect to introduce Extended Use Instruments in other geographies throughout 2021 and 2022, depending on the timing of regulatory approvals.
Da Vinci Stapling. The EndoWrist Stapler is a wristed, stapling instrument intended for resection, transection, and/or creation of anastomoses. This instrument enables operators to precisely position and fire the stapler. We market four staplers available with the da Vinci X and da Vinci Xi Surgical Systems: the EndoWrist Stapler 30 and 45 and the SureForm 45 and 60, where the numeric designation indicates the length of the staple line. The EndoWrist Stapler 30 is intended to deliver particular utility with fine tissue interaction in lobectomy and other thoracic procedures. The EndoWrist Stapler 45 is used in general surgery, gynecologic, thoracic, and urologic procedures. The SureForm 45 is intended to deliver particular utility in thoracic procedures. The SureForm 60 is a single-use, fully wristed, stapling instrument intended to deliver particular utility in bariatric procedures. We market five stapler reloads: gray (2.0 mm), white (2.5 mm), blue (3.5 mm), green (4.3 mm), and black (4.6 mm). Not all reloads are available for use on all staplers. Not all staplers or reloads are available in all countries.
Da Vinci Energy. The EndoWrist One Vessel Sealer is a wristed, single-use instrument intended for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument. This instrument enables surgeons to fully control vessel sealing, while providing the benefits of robotic-assisted surgery. This instrument is designed to enhance surgical efficiency and autonomy in a variety of general surgery and gynecologic procedures. The da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend is our newest instrument in the Vessel Sealing family of products. The da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend is a single-use, fully wristed bipolar electrosurgical instrument compatible with our fourth generation multiport systems. It is intended for grasping and blunt dissection of tissue and for bipolar coagulation and mechanical transection of vessels up to 7mm in diameter and tissue bundles that fit in the jaws of the instrument.
The E-100 generator is Intuitive's first generator and is offered as an upgrade to power the da Vinci Vessel Sealer Extend and SynchroSeal. SynchroSeal will enable a surgeon to perform rapid, one-step sealing and transection with a single pedal press. SynchroSeal uses advanced bipolar energy from its raised cut electrode to transect tissue and then cool down quickly.
Accessory Products. We sell various accessory products, which are used in conjunction with the da Vinci Surgical Systems as surgical procedures are performed. Accessory products include sterile drapes used to help ensure a sterile field during surgery, vision products, such as replacement 3D stereo endoscopes, camera heads, and light guides, and other items that facilitate use of the da Vinci Surgical Systems.
Ion endoluminal system
Our Ion endoluminal system extends our commercial offerings beyond surgery into diagnostic procedures with its first application. The Ion system is our flexible, robotic-assisted, catheter-based platform designed to navigate through very small lung airways to reach peripheral nodules for biopsies. The Ion system uses an ultra-thin articulating robotic catheter that can articulate 180 degrees in all directions. The outer diameter of the catheter is 3.5mm, which allows physicians to navigate through small and tortuous airways to reach nodules in most airway segments within the lung. The Ion system’s flexible biopsy needle can also pass through very tight bends via Ion’s catheter to collect tissue in the peripheral lung. The catheter’s 2mm working channel can also accommodate other biopsy tools, such as biopsy forceps or cytology brushes, if necessary.
7
Table of Contents
Business Strategy
Our goal aligns with the Quadruple Aim: enabling physicians and hospitals to improve outcomes for their patients, improve their patient’s and the care team’s experience, and lower the total cost to treat per patient episode. Through the use of smart, connected systems, robotic technologies, advanced imaging, and informatics, our objective is to create value for patients, surgeons, and hospitals as summarized below:
Patient Value. We believe that the value of a surgical procedure to a patient can be defined: Patient Value = Procedure Efficacy / Invasiveness. We define procedure efficacy as a measure of the success of the surgery in resolving the underlying disease and invasiveness as a measure of patient pain and disruption of regular activities. When the patient value of a da Vinci procedure is greater than that of alternative treatment options, patients may benefit from seeking out surgeons and hospitals that offer that da Vinci surgery, which could potentially result in a local market share shift. Adoption of da Vinci procedures occurs procedure by procedure and market by market and is driven by the relative patient value and the total treatment costs of da Vinci procedures as compared to alternative treatment options for the same disease state or condition. We believe that most patients will place higher value on procedures that are not only more efficacious but also less invasive than alternative treatments. Our goal is to provide products to surgeons who, in turn, provide patients with procedure options that are both highly effective and less invasive than other surgical options.
Surgeon Value. We offer surgeons and their operating room staff training on the technical use of our products. We provide an ergonomic platform for surgeons to perform their procedures. We seek to provide surgeons with reliable and easy-to-use products. The change to cloud-based analytics and routine use of local analytics may help surgeons track their procedures and processes and, with a network-connected smartphone and the MyIntuitive app, surgeons can access and explore their procedure data, such as console time and instrument usage, to gain insights into their program.
Hospital Value. We assist hospitals in building value by offering patient value using da Vinci products, thereby increasing surgical revenue and reducing costs through lower complication rates and reduced lengths of patient stay. We believe robotic-assisted surgery with the da Vinci Surgical System is a cost effective approach to many surgeries as compared to alternative treatment options, as recognized in many published studies. We also offer our Custom Hospital Analytics program, which enables the integration of data sources so that individual health institutions can analyze their data in their own environment. Using this data, administrators, chiefs of surgery, and surgeons can gain alignment around their programs based on their KPIs, determine best practices, assess gaps, and take actionable steps to address any gaps.
Clinical Applications
We are the beneficiaries of productive collaborations with leading surgeons in exploring and developing new techniques and applications for robotic-assisted surgery with the da Vinci Surgical System and minimally invasive biopsies with the Ion endoluminal system—an important part of our creative process. We primarily focus our development efforts on those procedures in which we believe our products bring the highest patient value, surgeon value, and hospital value. We currently focus on five surgical specialties: gynecologic surgery, urologic surgery, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, and head and neck surgery. Key procedures that we are focused on include da Vinci hysterectomy (“dVH”), da Vinci prostatectomy (“dVP”), da Vinci for hernia repair, da Vinci for colon and rectal procedures, da Vinci for partial nephrectomy, da Vinci for sacrocolpopexy, da Vinci for lobectomy, da Vinci for transoral robotic surgery, and da Vinci for bariatric surgery. We also focus on minimally invasive biopsies in the lung. Representative surgical applications are described below.
Gynecologic Surgery
Hysterectomy. Removal of the uterus is one of the most commonly performed surgeries in gynecology and is performed for a variety of underlying benign and cancerous conditions. Hysterectomies can be performed using open surgery (laparotomy) or MIS techniques, which include vaginal, laparoscopic, and robotic-assisted approaches. Prior to the clearance of the da Vinci Surgical System for use in gynecological procedures in 2005, the majority of hysterectomies performed were open surgeries. We believe that robotic-assisted surgery with the da Vinci Surgical System provides patients the opportunity to receive a minimally invasive treatment as an alternative to an open hysterectomy.
Sacrocolpopexy. The abdominal (open) sacrocolpopexy is one of the operations performed to treat vaginal vault prolapse. Sacrocolpopexy involves suturing a synthetic mesh that connects and supports the vagina to the sacrum (tailbone). A sacrocolpopexy can be performed using a conventional laparoscopic technique; however, it is generally described as difficult and cumbersome to perform. Surgeons have reported that the da Vinci Surgical System’s capabilities may enable a larger number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of MIS to a broader range of sacrocolpopexy patients.
8
Table of Contents
Urologic Surgery
Prostatectomy. Radical prostatectomy is the removal of the prostate gland in patients diagnosed with clinically localized prostate cancer. The standard approach to removal of the prostate was via an open surgical procedure. The conventional laparoscopic approach is an option, but it is difficult and poses challenges to even the most skilled urologist. The da Vinci Surgical System has enabled a large number of surgeons to convert from using an open surgical technique to a minimally invasive technique.
Partial Nephrectomy. Partial nephrectomy is the removal of a small portion of a kidney (typically, an area of the kidney containing a tumor). Partial nephrectomies are most commonly performed in patients diagnosed with clinically localized renal cancer. Excluding robotic-assisted surgery with a da Vinci Surgical System, there are three common surgical approaches to performing partial nephrectomies: open surgical technique, laparoscopy, and hand-assisted laparoscopy, which is a hybrid of the open and laparoscopic techniques. Surgeons have reported that the da Vinci Surgical System’s capabilities may enable a large number of these procedures to be performed through a minimally invasive technique, conferring the benefits of MIS to a broader range of partial nephrectomy patients. Treatment guidelines for patients with localized renal cancer recommend partial nephrectomy due to the benefits that nephron-sparing surgery has in long-term patient outcomes. Published clinical literature has shown that the presence of a da Vinci Surgical System is associated with a higher-proportion of patients receiving a guideline-recommended partial nephrectomy.
General Surgery
Hernia Repair. A hernia occurs when an organ or other tissue squeezes through a weak spot in a surrounding muscle or connective tissue. During a hernia repair surgery, the weakened tissue is secured, and defects are repaired. Common types of hernia are ventral and inguinal. Ventral, or abdominal hernia, may occur through a scar after surgery in the abdomen. Inguinal hernia is a bulge in the groin and is more common in men. Hernia repair can be performed using traditional open surgery or MIS. There is a wide-range of complexity in hernia repair surgeries and varying surgeon opinion regarding optimal surgical approach. The benefits of minimally invasive and robotic-assisted hernia repair surgery vary by patient.
Colorectal Surgery. These procedures typically involve benign or cancerous conditions of the lower digestive system, in particular the rectum or colon. Common procedures in this area include hemicolectomy, sigmoidectomy, low anterior resection, and abdominoperineal resection. Surgeons have reported that the use of robotic-assisted surgery with a da Vinci Surgical System and our latest technologies, such as the EndoWrist Stapler and da Vinci Energy, have enabled them to offer MIS approaches to a broader range of colorectal surgery patients.
Cholecystectomy. Cholecystectomy, or the surgical removal of the gall bladder, is a commonly performed general surgery procedure. Cholecystectomy is the primary method for the treatment of gallstones and other gall bladder diseases. Most cholecystectomies are performed using multi-port MIS techniques, although some surgeons choose to perform cholecystectomy using manual single-port instrumentation. Firefly technology can be used to visualize biliary anatomy in three dimensions beneath the tissue surfaces during multi-port da Vinci cholecystectomies.
Bariatric Surgery.  A body of literature points to the benefit of surgery to treat patients for morbid obesity and its secondary effects, such as diabetes. Sleeve gastrectomy and roux-en-Y gastric bypass (“RYGB”) are commonly performed surgical procedures for morbid obesity in the U.S. The body habitus of morbidly obese patients can make laparoscopic surgery physically challenging for the surgeon, and certain surgeons have found value in using the da Vinci Surgical System to improve upon the ergonomics when performing MIS in morbidly obese patients. In addition, RYGB can be a technically challenging procedure due to the suturing, stapling, and tissue (bowel) manipulation that is required. Surgeons using the da Vinci Surgical System have reported a reduction in a critical complication (anastomotic leaks) relative to laparoscopic RYGB. Also, we believe SureForm 60 may have particular utility in bariatric procedures.
Cardiothoracic Surgery
Thoracic Surgery. Conventional approaches to surgical procedures in the thorax include both open and video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. Procedures performed via these methods include pulmonary wedge resection, pulmonary lobectomy, thymectomy, mediastinal mass excision, and esophagectomy. Many thoracic procedures remain open procedures. Surgeons have reported that the use of robotic-assisted surgery with a da Vinci Surgical System in thoracic surgery has enabled them to offer MIS approaches to a broader range of thoracic surgery patients and improved clinical outcomes compared to open and video-assisted thoracic surgery in published single-center, multi-center, and national database clinical studies. Also, we believe the EndoWrist Stapler 30 may have particular utility in thoracic procedures.
Mitral Valve Repair. When patients are diagnosed with mitral valve disease, there are typically two surgical treatment options from which they can choose: mitral valve replacement or mitral valve repair. Mitral valve repairs are generally preferred over mitral valve replacement for a number of reasons, which include longevity and durability of the repaired valve over a replacement valve and the elimination or reduction of the patient’s post-surgical pharmaceutical regimen.
9
Table of Contents
Several of our surgeon customers have reported an improvement in their mitral valve repair rates over mitral valve replacements when using the da Vinci Surgical System.
Head and Neck Surgery
Transoral Surgery. Head and neck cancers are typically treated by either surgical resection or chemo-radiation, or a combination of both. Surgical resection performed by an open approach may require a “jaw-splitting” mandibulotomy. This procedure, while effective in treating cancer, is potentially traumatic and disfiguring to the patient. MIS approaches via the mouth (transoral surgery) are challenged by line-of-sight limitations dictated by conventional endoscopic tools. Chemo-radiation as a primary therapy does allow patients to avoid traumatic surgical incisions; however, literature suggests that this modality diminishes patients’ ability to speak and swallow normally. Surgeons have reported that da Vinci transoral surgery allows them to operate on tumors occurring in the oropharynx (i.e., tonsil and base of tongue) and larynx via the mouth and to overcome some of the line-of-sight limitations of conventional transoral surgery.
Da Vinci Procedure Mix
Our da Vinci procedure business is broadly split into two categories: (1) cancer procedures and (2) procedures for benign conditions. Cancer and other highly complex procedures tend to be reimbursed at higher rates than less complex procedures for benign conditions. Thus, hospitals are more sensitive to the costs associated with treating less complex, benign conditions. Our strategy is to provide hospitals with attractive clinical and economic solutions across the spectrum of procedure complexity. Our fully featured da Vinci Xi Surgical System with advanced instruments, including the da Vinci Energy and EndoWrist and SureForm Stapler products, and our Integrated Table Motion product, targets the more complex procedure segment. Our da Vinci X Surgical System is targeted towards price sensitive markets and procedures. Our da Vinci SP Surgical System complements the da Vinci Xi and X Surgical Systems by enabling surgeons to access narrow workspaces.
Clinical Summary
We believe that there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the da Vinci Surgical System, and we work closely with our surgeon customers to refine and explore new techniques in which a da Vinci Surgical System may bring value. As of December 31, 2020, we had an installed base of 5,989 da Vinci Surgical Systems, including 3,720 in the U.S., 1,059 in Europe, 894 in Asia, and 316 in the rest of the world. We estimate that surgeons using our technology completed approximately 1,243,000 surgical procedures of various types in hospitals throughout the world during the year ended December 31, 2020.
Additionally, we believe that there are numerous additional applications that can be addressed with the Ion endoluminal system. As of December 31, 2020, we had an installed base of 36 Ion endoluminal systems, all of which are located in the U.S.
Sales and Customer Support
Sales Model
We provide our products through direct sales organizations in the U.S., Europe (excluding Spain, Portugal, Italy, Greece, and most Eastern European countries), China, Japan, South Korea, India, and Taiwan. In January 2019, our Intuitive-Fosun joint venture (referred to herein as the “Joint Venture”) with Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. (“Fosun Pharma”) acquired certain assets related to the distribution business of Chindex Medical Limited and its affiliates (“Chindex”), a subsidiary of Fosun Pharma, which has been our distribution partner for da Vinci Surgical Systems in China since 2011, and began direct operations for da Vinci products and services in China. See “Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis” for further details on the Joint Venture. In the remainder of our markets outside of the U.S. (“OUS”), we provide our products through distributors. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, domestic revenue accounted for 68%, 70%, and 71%, respectively, of total revenue, while revenue from our OUS markets accounted for 32%, 30%, and 29%, respectively, of total revenue. As of December 31, 2020, and 2019, 83% and 85% of all long-lived assets were in the U.S., respectively.
Our direct sales organization is composed of a capital sales team, responsible for selling systems, and a clinical sales team, responsible for supporting system use in procedures performed at our hospital accounts. Our hospital accounts include both individual hospitals and healthcare facilities as well as hospitals and healthcare facilities that are part of an integrated delivery network (“IDN groups”). The initial system sale into an account is a major capital equipment purchase by our customers and typically has a lengthy sales cycle that can be affected by macroeconomic factors, capital spending prioritization, timing of budgeting cycles, and competitive bidding processes. Capital sales activities include educating surgeons or physicians and hospital staff across multiple specialties on the benefits of robotic-assisted surgery with a da Vinci Surgical System or robotic-assisted bronchoscopy with an Ion endoluminal system, total treatment costs, and the clinical applications that our technology enables. We also train our sales organization to educate hospital management on the potential benefits of adopting our technology, including the clinical benefits of robotic-assisted surgery with a da Vinci Surgical System or robotic-assisted bronchoscopy with an Ion endoluminal system, potential reductions in complications and length of stay, and the resulting potential for increased patient satisfaction, surgeon or physician recruitment, and procedure volume.
10
Table of Contents
Our clinical sales team works on site at hospitals, interacting with surgeons or physicians, operating room staff, and hospital administrators to develop and sustain successful robotic-assisted surgery or bronchoscopy programs. They assist the hospital in identifying surgeons or physicians who have an interest in robotic-assisted surgery or bronchoscopy and the potential benefits provided by the da Vinci Surgical System and the Ion endoluminal system. Our clinical sales team provides current clinical information on robotic-assisted surgery or bronchoscopy practices and new product applications to the hospital teams. Our clinical sales team has grown with the expanded installed bases of da Vinci Surgical Systems and Ion endoluminal systems as well as the total number of procedures performed. We expect this organization to continue to grow as our business expands.
Our customers place orders to replenish their supplies of instruments and accessories on a regular basis. Orders received are typically shipped within one business day. New direct customers who purchase a new system typically place an initial stocking order of instruments and accessories soon after they receive their system.
Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems have tended to be heavier in the fourth quarter and lighter in the first quarter, as hospital budgets are reset. In addition, we have historically experienced lower procedure volume in the first and third quarters and higher procedure volume in the second and fourth quarters. More than half of da Vinci procedures performed are for benign conditions. These benign procedures and other short-term elective procedures tend to be more seasonal than cancer procedures and surgeries for other life-threatening conditions. In the U.S., volumes for procedures associated with benign conditions are typically seasonally higher in the fourth quarter when more patients have met annual deductibles and lower in the first quarter when deductibles are reset. Seasonality outside the U.S. varies and is more pronounced around local holidays and vacation periods. The timing of procedures and changes in procedure volume impact the timing of instrument and accessory and capital purchases. As a result of factors outlined in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—COVID-19 Pandemic" below, including the past and potential future recommendations of authorities to defer elective procedures, historical procedure patterns have been and may continue to be disrupted.
Customer Support and Training Programs
We have a network of field service engineers across the U.S., Europe, and Asia and maintain relationships with various distributors around the globe. This infrastructure of service and support specialists offers a full complement of services for our customers, including 24/7 support, installation, repair, and maintenance. We generate service revenue by providing these services to our customers through comprehensive service contracts and time and material programs.
We provide basic system training that teaches the fundamental operating principles of the systems to surgeons, surgical assistants, and operating room nurses. We have established training centers where system training and ongoing surgical procedural training are provided, the latter led by expert surgeons. Training technologies include our Simulation program, which provides independent da Vinci skills development through interactive VR exercises, and our telementoring program, which provides real-time surgeon-to-surgeon learning and collaboration during robotic-assisted surgery.
Research and Development
We focus our research and development efforts on innovation and improvement for products and services that align with our mission: We believe that minimally invasive care is life-enhancing care. Through ingenuity and intelligent technology, we believe that we can expand the potential of physicians to heal without constraints. We employ engineering and research and development staff to focus on delivering future innovations and sustaining improvements that advance our mission. In certain instances, we complement our research and development effort through collaborations with other companies, such as Trumpf Medical (a division of Hill-Rom Holdings, Inc.).
Manufacturing
We manufacture our systems at our facilities in Sunnyvale, California and Durham, North Carolina. We manufacture our instruments at our facilities in Sunnyvale, California and Mexicali, Mexico. We also have manufacturing at multiple sites in Germany.
We purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by sole-sourced suppliers (the only recognized supply source available to us) or single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). We purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and generally do not maintain large volumes of finished goods relative to our anticipated demand.
11
Table of Contents
Competition
We face competition in the forms of existing open surgery, conventional MIS, drug therapies, radiation treatment, and emerging interventional surgical approaches. Our success depends on continued clinical and technical innovation, quality and reliability, as well as educating hospitals, surgeons, and patients on the demonstrated results associated with robotic-assisted surgery using da Vinci Surgical Systems and its value relative to other techniques. We also face competition from several companies that have introduced or are developing new approaches and products for the MIS market. We believe that the entrance or emergence of competition validates MIS and robotic-assisted surgery.
Moreover, as we add new robotically controlled products (e.g., da Vinci Stapling and da Vinci Energy) that compete with product offerings traditionally within the domains of open surgery and/or conventional MIS, we face greater competition from larger and well established companies, such as Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc. and Medtronic plc.
The companies that have introduced products in the field of robotic-assisted surgery or have made explicit statements about their efforts to enter the field, include, but are not limited to: avateramedical GmbH; CMR Surgical Ltd.; Johnson & Johnson (including their wholly owned subsidiaries Auris Health, Inc. and Verb Surgical Inc.); Medicaroid, Inc.; Medrobotics Corporation; Medtronic plc; meerecompany Inc.; MicroPort Scientific Corporation; Olympus Corporation; Samsung Group; Shandong Weigao Group Medical Polymer Company Ltd.; Smart Robot Technology Group Co. Ltd.; Titan Medical Inc.; and TransEnterix, Inc. Other companies with substantial experience in industrial robotics could potentially expand into the field of surgical robotics and become a competitor. In addition, research efforts utilizing computers and robotics in surgery are underway at various companies and research institutions. Our revenues may be adversely impacted as our competitors announce their intent to enter our markets and as our customers anticipate the availability of competing products.
Intellectual Property
We place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products, and processes.
We generally rely upon a combination of intellectual property laws, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology. For example, we have trademarks, both registered and unregistered, that provide distinctive identification of our products in the marketplace. We also have exclusive and non-exclusive patent licenses with various third parties to supplement our own robust patent portfolio.
As of December 31, 2020, we held ownership or exclusive field-of-use licenses for more than 4,000 U.S. and foreign patents and have filed more than 2,000 U.S. and foreign patent applications. We intend to continue filing new patent applications in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions to seek protection for our technology.
Patents are granted for finite terms. Upon expiration, the inventions claimed in a patent enter the public domain.
Government Regulation
Our products and operations are subject to regulation by the FDA, the State of California, and countries or regions in which we market our products. In addition, our products must meet the requirements of a large and growing body of international standards, which govern the design, manufacture, materials content and sourcing, testing, certification, packaging, installation, use, and disposal of our products. We must continually keep abreast of these standards and requirements and integrate our compliance into the development and regulatory documentation for our products. Failure to meet these standards could limit our ability to market our products in those regions that require compliance to such standards. Examples of standards to which we are subject include electrical safety standards, such as those of the International Electrotechnical Commission (e.g., IEC 60601-ss series of standards), and composition standards, such as the Reduction of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“WEEE”) Directives.
U.S. Regulation
The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, promotion, marketing, distribution, and service of medical devices in the U.S. to ensure that medical products distributed domestically are safe and effective for their intended uses. In addition, the FDA regulates the export of medical devices manufactured in the U.S. to markets outside of the U.S. and the importation of medical devices manufactured abroad.
Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (“FFDCA”), medical devices are classified into one of three classes—Class I, Class II, or Class III—depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to ensure safety and effectiveness. Our current products are Class II medical devices.
Class II medical devices are those which are subject to general controls, and most require premarket demonstration of adherence to certain performance standards or other special controls, as specified by the FDA, and clearance by the FDA. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for these devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification
12
Table of Contents
process. Unless a Class II medical device is exempt from a premarket review, the manufacturer must submit to the FDA a premarket notification submission demonstrating that the device is “substantially equivalent” in intended use and technology to a “predicate device” that is either:
•a device that has grandfather marketing status, because it was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976, the date upon which the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 were enacted; or
•a device that has previously been cleared through the 510(k) process.
If the FDA agrees that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, it will grant clearance to commercially market the device in the U.S. The FDA has a statutory 90-day period to respond to a 510(k) submission, or a guidance-based 30-day period for “special” 510(k) submissions, which have a more restrictive scope and generally involve more specific or very limited changes to a legally marketed device. As a practical matter, clearance often takes longer. The FDA may require further information, including clinical data, to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. If the FDA determines that the device, or its intended use, is not “substantially equivalent,” the FDA may deny the request for clearance. Although unlikely for the types of products marketed by us, the FDA may classify the device, or the particular use of the device, into Class III, and the device sponsor must then fulfill more rigorous pre-market approval (“PMA”) requirements. A PMA application, which is intended to demonstrate that a device is safe and effective, must be supported by data, typically including data from preclinical studies and human clinical trials. The FDA, by statute and regulation, has 180 days to review a PMA application, although the review more often occurs over a significantly longer period of time, and can take up to several years. In approving a PMA application or clearing a 510(k) submission, the FDA may also require some form of post-market surveillance when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device. In such cases, the manufacturer might be required to follow certain patient groups for a number of years and make periodic reports to the FDA on the clinical status of those patients.
After a device receives FDA 510(k) clearance, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, requires a new 510(k) clearance or could require a PMA application approval. The FDA requires each manufacturer to make the determination of whether a modification requires a new 510(k) notification or PMA application in the first instance, but the FDA can review any such decision. If the FDA disagrees with a manufacturer’s decision not to seek a new 510(k) clearance or PMA approval for a particular change, the FDA may retroactively require the manufacturer to seek 510(k) clearance or PMA approval. The FDA also can require the manufacturer to cease U.S. marketing and/or recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA approval is obtained.
Over the last several years, the FDA has proposed reforms to its 510(k) clearance process, and such proposals will include increased requirements for clinical data and a longer review period and make it more difficult for manufacturers to utilize the 510(k) clearance process for their products. For example, in November 2018, FDA officials announced forthcoming steps that the FDA intends to take to modernize the premarket notification pathway under Section 510(k) of the FFDCA. Among other things, the FDA announced that it planned to develop proposals to drive manufacturers utilizing the 510(k) pathway toward the use of newer predicates. These proposals included plans to potentially sunset certain older devices that were used as predicates under the 510(k) clearance pathway and to potentially publish a list of devices that have been cleared on the basis of demonstrated substantial equivalence to predicate devices that are more than 10 years old. In May 2019, the FDA solicited public feedback on these proposals. These proposals have not yet been finalized or adopted, and the FDA may work with Congress to implement such proposals through legislation.
More recently, in September 2019, the FDA finalized guidance describing an optional “safety and performance based” premarket review pathway for manufacturers of “certain, well-understood device types” to demonstrate substantial equivalence under the 510(k) clearance pathway by showing that such device meets objective safety and performance criteria established by the FDA, thereby obviating the need for manufacturers to compare the safety and performance of their medical devices to specific predicate devices in the clearance process. The FDA maintains a list of device types appropriate for the “safety and performance based” pathway and will continue to develop product-specific guidance documents that identify the performance criteria for each such device type, as well as the testing methods recommended in the guidance documents, where feasible.
In addition, after a device is placed on the market, numerous FDA and other regulatory requirements continue to apply. These requirements include establishment registration and device listing with the FDA, compliance with medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur, and compliance with corrections and removal reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers report to the FDA field corrections and product recalls or removals if undertaken to reduce a risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the FFDCA that may present a risk to health. The FDA and the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) also regulate the advertising and promotion of our products to ensure that the claims we make are consistent with our regulatory clearances, that there is scientific data to substantiate the claims, and that our advertising is neither false nor misleading. In general, we may not promote or advertise our products for uses not within the scope of our intended use statement in our clearances or make
13
Table of Contents
unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. Many regulatory jurisdictions outside of the U.S. have similar regulations to which we are subject.
Our manufacturing processes are required to comply with the FDA’s Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) requirements contained in its Quality System Regulation (“QSR”) and associated regulations and guidance. The QSR covers, among other things, the methods used in, and the facilities and controls used for, the design, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, installation, and servicing of all medical devices intended for human use. The QSR also requires maintenance of extensive records, which demonstrate compliance with the FDA regulation, the manufacturer’s own procedures, specifications, and testing, as well as distribution and post-market experience. Compliance with the QSR is necessary to receive FDA clearance or approval to market new products and is necessary for a manufacturer to be able to continue to market cleared or approved product offerings in the U.S. A company’s facilities, records, and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic scheduled or unscheduled inspections by the FDA, which may issue reports known as Form FDA 483 or Notices of Inspectional Observations, which list instances where the FDA investigator believes the manufacturer has failed to comply with applicable regulations and/or procedures. If the observations are sufficiently serious or the manufacturer fails to respond appropriately, the FDA may issue Warning Letters, or Untitled Letters, which are notices of potential enforcement actions against the manufacturer. If a Warning Letter or Untitled Letter is not addressed to the satisfaction of the FDA or if the FDA becomes aware of any other serious issue with a manufacturer’s products or facilities, it could result in fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of clearances, seizures or recalls of products, operating restrictions, total shutdown of production facilities, prohibition on export or import, and criminal prosecution. Such actions may have further indirect consequences for the manufacturer outside of the U.S. and may adversely affect the reputation of the manufacturer and the product.
To a greater or lesser extent, most other countries require some form of quality system and regulatory compliance, which may include periodic inspections, inspections by third-party auditors, and specialized documentation. Failure to meet all of the requirements of these countries could jeopardize our ability to import, market, support, and receive reimbursement for the use of our products in these countries.
In addition to the above, we may seek to conduct clinical studies or trials in the U.S. or other countries on products that have not yet been cleared or approved for a particular indication. Additional regulations govern the approval, initiation, conduct, documentation, and reporting of clinical studies to regulatory agencies in the countries or regions in which they are conducted. Such investigational use is generally also regulated by local and institutional requirements and policies which usually include review by an ethics committee or institutional review board (“IRB”). Failure to comply with all regulations governing such studies could subject the Company to significant enforcement actions and sanctions, including halting of the study, seizure of investigational devices or data, sanctions against investigators, civil or criminal penalties, and other actions. Without the data from one or more clinical studies, it may not be possible for us to secure the data necessary to support certain regulatory submissions, secure reimbursement, or demonstrate other requirements. We cannot provide assurance that access to clinical investigators, sites, subjects, documentation, and data will be available on the terms and in the timeframes necessary.
Products manufactured outside the U.S. by or for us are subject to U.S. Customs and FDA inspection upon entry into the U.S. We must demonstrate compliance of such products with U.S. regulations and carefully document the eventual distribution or re-exportation of such products. Failure to comply with all applicable regulations could prevent us from having access to products or components critical to the manufacture of finished products and lead to shortages and delays.
California Regulation
The State of California requires that we obtain a license to manufacture medical devices and, until 2012, conducted periodic inspections of medical device manufacturers. Our facilities and manufacturing processes were last inspected in July 2011 and were found to be in compliance. In accordance with the State of California regulations, our license to manufacture is renewed annually with any updated manufacturing information. Although the State of California has announced the suspension of routine periodic inspections, there can be no assurance that the State of California will not resume such inspections or conduct such inspections under specific circumstances that are not yet known.
Foreign Regulation
In order for us to market our products in countries outside the United States, we must obtain regulatory approvals and comply with extensive product and quality system regulations in other countries. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Some countries have regulatory review processes that are substantially longer than U.S. processes. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner and meet all of the local requirements including language and specific safety standards in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products could prevent us from marketing products in such countries or subject us to sanctions and fines.
For example, most medical devices must undergo thorough safety examinations and demonstrate medical efficacy before they receive regulatory approval to be sold in Japan. We obtained approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor, and
14
Table of Contents
Welfare (“MHLW”) for our da Vinci Si Surgical System in October 2012, for our da Vinci Xi Surgical System in March 2015, and for our da Vinci X Surgical System in April 2018. National reimbursement status in Japan was received for dVP procedures in April 2012 and for da Vinci partial nephrectomy procedures in April 2016. An additional 12 da Vinci procedures were granted reimbursement effective April 1, 2018, including gastrectomy, low anterior resection, lobectomy, and hysterectomy, for both malignant and benign conditions. An additional 7 procedures were granted reimbursement effective April 1, 2020. These additional 19 reimbursed procedures have varying levels of conventional laparoscopic penetration and will be reimbursed at rates equal to the conventional laparoscopic procedures. Given the reimbursement level and laparoscopic penetration for these 19 procedures, there can be no assurance that adoption will occur or that the adoption pace for these procedures will be similar to any other da Vinci procedures. If these procedures are not adopted and we are not successful in obtaining adequate procedure reimbursements for additional procedures, then the demand for our products in Japan could be limited. The process of reimbursement for new da Vinci surgical procedures in Japan is led by the surgical societies. The societies submit for reimbursement or incremental reimbursement to the MHLW for their evaluation. The decision to reimburse requires in-country clinical data and is fixed in April of even-numbered years.
Commercialization of medical devices in Europe is regulated by the European Union (“EU”). The EU presently requires that all medical products bear the Conformité Européenne (“CE”) mark for compliance with the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC) as amended. The CE mark is an international symbol of adherence to certain essential principles of safety and performance mandated in applicable European medical device directives, which, once affixed, enables a product to be sold in member countries of the EU and those affiliated countries that accept the CE mark. The CE mark is also recognized in many countries outside of the EU, such as Australia, and can assist in the clearance process. In order to affix the CE mark on products, a recognized European Notified Body must certify a manufacturer’s quality system and design dossier for compliance with international and European requirements. We have received authorization from Presafe Denmark A/S (formerly DGM Denmark A/S), a recognized European Notified Body and part of Nemko Presafe A/S, to affix the CE mark to our da Vinci Surgical Systems and EndoWrist instruments and accessories. To maintain authorization to apply the CE mark, we are subject to annual surveillance audits and periodic re-certification audits. In September 2013, the European Commission adopted a recommendation indicating that all Notified Bodies, including Presafe, should carry out unannounced audits at least once every third year, of the manufacturers whose medical devices they have certified. These unannounced audits can also extend to the manufacturer’s critical suppliers or sub-contractors (those that supply a critical input or perform a critical function for the manufacturer).
If we modify our existing products or develop new products in the future, we may need to apply for authorization to affix the CE mark to such products. We do not know whether we will be able to obtain authorization to affix the CE mark for new or modified products or whether we will continue to meet the safety and performance standards required to maintain the authorizations we have already received. If we are unable to maintain authorizations to affix the CE mark to our products, we will no longer be able to sell our products in member countries of the EU or those whose marketing authorizations are based on the CE mark.
In May 2017, the Medical Device Regulation was implemented to replace the Medical Device Directive (93/42/EEC) as amended. The Medical Device Regulation ((EU) 2017/745) comes into force on May 26, 2021, and imposes stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices and grants Notified Bodies increased post-market surveillance authority. We may be subject to risks associated with additional testing, modification, certification, or amendment of our existing market authorizations, or we may be required to modify products already installed at our customers’ facilities to comply with the official interpretations of these revised regulations.
Regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary from country to country. Certain countries, such as China and South Korea, have their own regulatory agencies. These countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance with extensive safety and quality system regulations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we plan to market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. Our system sales into China are also dependent on obtaining importation authorizations and provincial approvals, as well as hospitals completing a tender process under the authorization. In October 2018, the China National Health Commission published on its official website the quota for major medical equipment to be imported and sold in China through 2020. After an adjustment notice was published in the third quarter of 2020, the government will now allow for the total sale of 225 new surgical robots into China, which could include da Vinci Surgical Systems as well as surgical systems introduced by others. Sales of da Vinci Surgical Systems under the quota are uncertain, as they are dependent on hospitals completing a tender process and receiving associated approvals. In addition, local regulations may apply, which govern the use of our products and which could have an adverse effect on our product utilization if they are unfavorable. All such regulations are revised from time to time and, in general, are increasing in complexity, and in the scope and degree of documentation and testing required. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such documentation and testing will be acceptable to any particular regulatory agency or will continue to be acceptable over time. There are further regulations governing the importation, marketing, sale, distribution, use, and service as well as the removal and disposal of medical devices in the regions in which we operate and
15
Table of Contents
market our products. Failure to comply with any of these regulations could result in sanctions or fines and could prevent us from marketing our products in these regions.
Other Healthcare Laws
We are also subject to federal and state healthcare laws and regulations pertaining to fraud and abuse, physician payment transparency, privacy, and security laws and regulations. These laws include:
•the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering, or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order, or recommendation of, any good or service for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it to have committed a violation. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the False Claims Act;
•federal false claims laws that prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal third-party payors that are false or fraudulent. Private individuals can bring False Claims Act “qui tam” actions on behalf of the government, and such individuals may share in amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement;
•the federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law, which prohibits, among other things, offering or transferring remuneration to a federal healthcare beneficiary that a person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s decision to order or receive items or services reimbursable by the government from a particular provider or supplier;
•federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any federal healthcare benefit program or making false statements relating to healthcare matters;
•the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, which governs the conduct of certain electronic healthcare transactions and protects the security and privacy of protected health information;
•the federal Physician Payment Sunshine Act, which requires (i) manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics, and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid, or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”) information related to payments or other “transfers of value” made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, and chiropractors), certain other healthcare professionals (as described below), and teaching hospitals, and (ii) applicable manufacturers and group purchasing organizations to report annually to CMS ownership any investment interests held by the physicians described above and their immediate family members and payments or other “transfers of value” to such physician owners. Additionally, on October 25, 2018, President Trump signed into law the “Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promoted Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act,” which, in part (under a provision entitled “Fighting the Opioid Epidemic with Sunshine”), extends the reporting and transparency requirements for physicians in the Physician Payments Sunshine Act to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse midwives (with reporting requirements going into effect in 2022 for payments made in 2021). Manufacturers are required to submit reports to CMS by the 90th day of each calendar year; and
•analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers, state laws that require device companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources, state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other “transfers of value” to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information, and laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, including the E.U. General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts.
16
Table of Contents
If our operations are found to violate any of the laws described above or any other laws and regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, the exclusion from our participation in federal and state healthcare programs, and imprisonment, any of which could adversely affect our ability to market our products and materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business.
Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement
In the U.S. and most markets OUS where we sell our products, the government and health insurance companies together are responsible for hospital and surgeon reimbursement for virtually all covered surgical procedures. Governments and insurance companies generally reimburse hospitals and physicians for surgery when the procedure is considered medically necessary. In the U.S., CMS administers the Medicare and Medicaid programs (the latter, along with applicable state governments). Many other third-party payors model their reimbursement methodologies after the Medicare program. As the single largest payor, this program has a significant impact on other payors’ payment systems.
Generally, reimbursement for professional services performed at a facility by physicians is reported under billing codes issued by the American Medical Association (“AMA”), known as Current Procedural Terminology (“CPT”) codes. Physician reimbursement under Medicare generally is based on a fee schedule and determined by the relative value of the professional service rendered. In addition, CMS and the National Center for Health Statistics (“NCHS”) are jointly responsible for overseeing changes and modifications to billing codes used by hospitals to report inpatient procedures, ICD-10-PCS codes. For Medicare, CMS generally reimburses hospitals for services provided during an inpatient stay based on a prospective payment system that is determined by a classification system known as Medicare-Severity Diagnostic Related Groupings (“MS-DRGs”). MS-DRGs are assigned using a number of factors, including the principal diagnosis, major procedures, discharged status, patient age, and complicating secondary diagnoses, among other things. Hospital outpatient services, reported by CPT codes, are assigned to clinically relevant Ambulatory Payment Classifications (“APCs”) used to determine the payment amount for services provided.
Since October 1, 2015, a new family of ICD-10-PCS codes can be used, in conjunction with other applicable procedure codes, to describe various robotic-assisted procedures. An inpatient surgical procedure, completed with or without robotic assistance, continues to be assigned to the clinically relevant MS-DRG.
Governments and insurance companies carefully review and increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical products and surgical services. Reimbursement rates from private companies vary depending on the procedure performed, the third-party payor, contract terms, and other factors. Because both hospitals and physicians may receive the same reimbursement for their respective services, with or without robotics, regardless of actual costs incurred by the hospital or physician in furnishing the care, including for the specific products used in that procedure, hospitals and physicians may decide not to use our products if reimbursement amounts are insufficient to cover any additional costs incurred when purchasing our products.
Domestic institutions typically bill various third-party payors, such as Medicare, Medicaid, and other government programs and private insurance plans for the primary surgical procedure that includes our products. Because our da Vinci Surgical Systems have been cleared for commercial distribution in the U.S. by the FDA, coverage and reimbursement by payors are generally determined by the medical necessity of the primary surgical procedure. Governmental and third-party payors may also consider additional factors when determining coverage and reimbursement, including the designation of the surgical procedure as a covered benefit, the appropriateness of the procedure for the specific patient, support by guidelines established by the relevant professional college or medical society, and a payor determination that the procedure is neither experimental nor investigational. We believe that the additional procedures we intend to pursue are established surgical procedures that are generally already reimbursable by government agencies and insurance companies for appropriately selected patients. If hospitals do not obtain sufficient reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures performed with our products, or if governmental and private payors’ policies do not cover surgical procedures performed using our products, we may not be able to generate the revenues necessary to support our business.
In countries outside the U.S., reimbursement is obtained from various sources, including governmental authorities, private health insurance plans, and labor unions. In most foreign countries, private insurance systems may also offer payments for some therapies. In addition, health maintenance organizations are emerging in certain European countries. To effectively conduct our business, we may need to seek OUS reimbursement approvals, and we do not know if these required approvals will be obtained in a timely manner or at all. In some countries, patients may be permitted to pay directly for surgical services; however, such “co-pay” practices are not common in most countries.
In the U.S., there have been, and continue to be, a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), was enacted. The PPACA made changes that have significantly impacted healthcare providers,
17
Table of Contents
insurers, and pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers. The PPACA contained a number of provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund health insurance coverage expansion, including, but not limited to, fees or taxes on certain health-related industries, including medical device manufacturers.
The PPACA also appropriated funding to research the comparative effectiveness of healthcare treatments and strategies. It remains unclear how this research will influence future Medicare coverage and reimbursement decisions as well as influence other third-party payor coverage and reimbursement policies. The PPACA, as well as other federal or state healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The taxes imposed by PPACA and the expansion in the government’s role in the U.S. healthcare industry may result in decreased profits, lower reimbursement from payors for procedures that use our products, and/or reduced procedural volumes, all of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the PPACA was enacted. These changes included an aggregate reduction in Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect on April 1, 2013 and will remain in effect through 2030, unless additional Congressional action is taken, with the exception of a temporary suspension of the 2% cut in Medicare payments from May 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers, and cancer treatment centers. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015, enacted on April 16, 2015 (“MACRA”), repealed the formula by which Medicare made annual payment adjustments to physicians and replaced the former formula with fixed annual updates and a new system of incentive payments that began in 2019 and are based on various performance measures and physicians’ participation in alternative payment models, such as accountable care organizations. Individual states in the U.S. have also become increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints and discounts, and require marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures.
There have also been judicial and congressional challenges to certain aspects of the PPACA, as well as efforts by the U.S. administration to modify, repeal, or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the PPACA. Since January 2017, President Trump signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the PPACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the PPACA. The Trump administration has also announced that it will discontinue the payment of cost-sharing reduction (“CSR”) payments to insurance companies until Congress approves the appropriation of funds for the CSR payments. The loss of the CSR payments is expected to increase premiums on certain policies issued by qualified health plans under the PPACA. Legislation to appropriate funds for CSR payments has been introduced in Congress, but the future of such legislation is uncertain. In addition, CMS finalized regulations that, effective beginning with the 2020 plan year, give states greater flexibility in setting benchmarks for insurers in the individual and small group marketplaces, which may have the effect of relaxing the essential health benefits required under the PPACA for plans sold through such marketplaces.
As a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“2017 Tax Act”) enacted on December 22, 2017, the PPACA’s individual mandate penalty for not having health insurance coverage was eliminated starting in 2019. Further, each chamber of Congress has put forth multiple bills designed to repeal or repeal and replace portions of the PPACA. On December 14, 2018, a U.S. District Court Judge in the Northern District of Texas, ruled that the individual mandate is a critical and inseverable feature of the ACA and, therefore, because it was repealed as part of the 2017 Tax Act, the remaining provisions of the ACA are invalid as well. The Fifth Court of Appeals affirmed the district court's ruling that the individual mandate was unconstitutional, but it remanded the case back to the district court for further analysis of whether the mandate could be severed from the Affordable Care Act. The Supreme Court of the United States granted certiorari on March 2, 2020 and held oral arguments on November 10, 2020. The case is expected to be decided by mid-2021. It is unclear how this decision, subsequent pending appeals, and other efforts to repeal and replace the ACA will impact the ACA and our business. Although the majority of these measures have not been enacted by Congress to date, Congress may continue to consider other legislation to repeal or repeal and replace elements of the PPACA. Any regulatory or legislative developments in domestic or foreign markets that eliminate or reduce reimbursement rates for procedures performed with our products could harm our ability to sell our products or cause downward pressure on the prices of our products, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations.
18
Table of Contents
Human Capital
The future success of our company depends on our ability to attract, retain, and further develop top talent. To facilitate talent attraction, retention, and development, we strive to make Intuitive an inclusive, diverse, and safe workplace with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by strong compensation, benefits, and health and wellness programs as well as by programs that build connections between our employees and the communities in which they live and work.
At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 8,081 full-time employees, 1,111 of whom were engaged directly in research and development, 3,559 in manufacturing and service, and 3,411 in marketing, sales and administrative activities. During 2020, the number of employees increased by approximately 755. Our employees are based in 27 different countries around the world. Our global workforce consists of diverse, highly skilled talent at all levels. During 2020, our turnover rate was less than 6.5%.
Inclusion and Diversity
We strive to foster a culture where mutual respect, inclusive behavior, and dignity are core to our individual expectations. Since our founding, we have remained committed to fostering an inclusive environment in which our differing backgrounds, life experiences, and perspectives join to positively impact the communities in which we live and serve.
We continue to build a culture where the best idea wins and our doors and minds are always open. We do this by leading with inclusion and empowering everyone to do their best work as their most authentic selves—regardless of race, color, national origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, age, disability, or military service status. We are united by our collective purpose and common set of organizational values that are core to our mission and culture.
We support the growth and expansion of our employee resource groups (ERGs), which foster an inclusive culture and sense of belonging for our employees. Our ERGs provide a point of connection for employees who share common community attributes and want to engage, learn, communicate, and participate in advancing our inclusion and diversity objectives. Our ERGs include the Women Intuitive Network, Intuitive Pan-Asian Community, BLACK at Intuitive, Diverse Abilities, PRIDE, and VETS. In 2020, our ERGs grew from three to 10 companywide. These employee-volunteer-led groups focus on four key impact areas including recruitment, employee development, community building, and business development. ERGs also provided ideas and insight to senior management and various departments by serving as sources of employee feedback on important aspects of our business, such as talent acquisition and retention, accessibility accommodations, and operational challenge solutions.
From a governance perspective, maintaining a mix of backgrounds and experience in our board composition is essential to understanding and reflecting the needs of our diverse stakeholders. Currently, three of our 10 board members are women, one of our board members identifies as Hispanic, and one of our board members identifies as Middle Eastern.
Health, Safety, and Wellness
The health, safety, and wellness of our employees is a priority in which we have always invested, and will continue to do so. These investments and the prioritization of employee health, safety, and wellness took on particular significance in 2020 in light of COVID-19. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible, and convenient health and wellness programs. Program benefits are intended to provide protection and security, so employees can have peace of mind concerning events that may require time away from work or that may impact their financial well-being. Additionally, we provide programs to help support employee physical and mental health by providing tools and resources to help them improve or maintain their health status, encourage engagement in healthy behaviors, and offer choices where possible so they are customized to meet their needs and the needs of their families.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, in compliance with government regulations. This includes having the vast majority of our employees work from home, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work. A number of employees critical to maintaining our essential engineering, manufacturing, repair, and logistics functions have continued to work from Intuitive locations globally. To protect and support our essential team members, we have implemented health and safety measures that included maximizing personal workspaces, changing shift schedules, providing personal protective equipment (PPE), and instituting mandatory screening before accessing buildings. We created subteam groups, keeping the same manufacturing teams working together to facilitate contact tracing and minimize potential staffing risk.
19
Table of Contents
Compensation and Benefits
We provide compensation and benefits programs to help meet the needs of our employees. In addition to base compensation, these programs, which vary by country and region, include annual bonuses, stock awards, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, 401(k) and pension plans, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, family care resources, and flexible work schedules, among many others. As a response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented modifications to our compensation program, including paying a portion of 2020 bonuses mid-year to help staff cover unforeseen pandemic-related expenses. We also offered premium pay and a subsidized lunch program.
Ensuring fair and equitable pay is integral to our commitment to our employees. Our executive team and Board of Directors strongly support this commitment. We conduct pay equity reviews annually to help us understand whether our compensation structure is appropriate and to identify what improvements can be made. In addition, we utilize a robust inspection process with an independent consulting firm for gender and ethnicity hiring, promotion, and wage equity to determine whether any statistically significant pay differences exist between women and men and between minorities and non-minorities. If pay disparities are identified, we conduct further evaluation to determine whether remedial adjustments are appropriate. In addition, employees can raise issues regarding pay equity with their manager, their human resources partner, or confidentially through our anonymous reporting helpline.
Talent Development
We value our employees and the passion, commitment, and professional depth they provide. To enhance employee retention and job satisfaction, we offer ongoing learning and leadership training opportunities that support growth.
With a commitment to achieving diverse representation within our leadership ranks that reflects the diversity that we see in our overall employee base, we increased our leadership development efforts in 2020 by reinforcing development around our People Leader Success Model. Leadership development focuses on people-leader effectiveness, cultural continuity, and organizational effectiveness, so that leaders at all levels have the capabilities and knowledge that they and their teams need to succeed.
Our Global Talent Management team transitioned much of our leadership training from in-person sessions to remote learning with the emergence of COVID-19 in 2020. Our scaled learning platform of on-demand and virtual classroom learning eliminates travel and allows employees worldwide to access development at their convenience.
We have robust annual global performance review processes for reviewing all employees’ performance and pay. To support our managers, we train them on conducting effective performance reviews and making compensation recommendations, which take into consideration market pay data and performance, as well as experience in an employee’s respective role.
Community Programs and Our COVID-19 Response
We believe that building connections between our employees, their families, and our communities creates a more meaningful, fulfilling, and enjoyable workplace. Through our engagement programs, our employees can pursue their interests and hobbies, connect to volunteering and giving opportunities, and enjoy unique recreational experiences with family members.
The Intuitive Foundation is a nonprofit organization established and funded by Intuitive in 2018. Since its founding, the Intuitive Foundation has been dedicated to promoting health, advancing education, and reducing human suffering. The Foundation supports outreach programs financially while we provide the volunteers and mentors from within our company. Since its inception, we have contributed $55 million to the Intuitive Foundation to fulfill its mission.
The events of 2020 inspired Intuitive employees to further support the Foundation’s work on several key initiatives. The Foundation’s multifaceted response to the COVID-19 pandemic was a major focus in 2020. From the first days of the pandemic, Intuitive and the Intuitive Foundation engaged within the communities in which we live and work. We converted some of our manufacturing lines to produce PPE, donating more than a million face shields globally through the Intuitive Foundation. Employees and their families sewed facemasks and volunteered in their communities. Our engineers helped design and implement updates to ventilators that made them easier to produce. Some of our medically trained employees volunteered as healthcare workers on the front lines. Lastly, Intuitive and the Intuitive Foundation, along with many employees, contributed financially to support COVID-19 relief.
We encourage you to review the "Talent and workplace experience" and "Creating stronger communities" section of our Sustainability Report 2020 (located on our website) for more detailed information regarding our Human Capital programs and initiatives. Nothing on our website, including our Sustainability Report 2020 or sections thereof, shall be deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
20
Table of Contents
General
We make our periodic and current reports, including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available free of charge on our website as soon as practicable after such material is electronically filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Our website address is www.intuitive.com, and the reports are filed under “SEC Filings” on the Company — Investor Relations portion of our website. Periodically, we webcast Company announcements, product launch events, and executive presentations, which can be viewed via our Investor Relations page on our website. In addition, we provide notifications of our material news, including SEC filings, investor events, and press releases as part of our Investor Relations page on our website. The contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
We operate our business as one segment, as defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our financial results for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 are discussed in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report.
Intuitive Surgical, Inc. was founded in 1995. We are a Delaware corporation with our corporate headquarters located at 1020 Kifer Road, Sunnyvale, California 94086. Our telephone number is (408) 523-2100, and our website address is www.intuitive.com.