Introduction

Invesco Ltd. (Invesco or the company) is an independent investment management firm dedicated to delivering an investment experience that helps people get more out of life. Our comprehensive range of active, passive and alternative investment capabilities has been constructed over many years to help clients achieve their investment objectives. We draw on this comprehensive range of capabilities to provide customized solutions designed to deliver key outcomes aligned to client needs.

With more than 8,000 employees and an on-the-ground presence in over 20 countries, Invesco is well positioned to meet the needs of investors across the globe. We have specialized investment teams managing investments across a broad range of asset classes, investment styles and geographies. For decades, individuals and institutions have viewed our organization as a trusted partner for a broad range of investment needs. We have a significant presence in the retail and institutional markets within the investment management industry in North America, EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia-Pacific, serving clients in more than 120 countries. As of December 31, 2020, the firm managed approximately $1.35 trillion in assets for investors around the world.

The key drivers of success for Invesco are long-term investment performance, competitive pricing which we achieve through scaling our business, high-quality client service and effective distribution relationships, delivered across a diverse spectrum of investment management capabilities, distribution channels, geographic areas and market exposures. By achieving success in these areas, we seek to deliver better outcomes for clients and generate competitive investment results, positive net flows, increased assets under management (AUM) and associated revenues.

We are affected significantly by market movements, which are beyond our control; however, we endeavor to mitigate the impact of market movements for the firm and for clients by maintaining broad diversification across asset classes, investment vehicles, client domiciles and geographies. We measure relative investment performance by comparing our investment capabilities to competitors' products, industry benchmarks and client investment objectives. Generally, distributors, investment advisors and consultants take into consideration longer-term investment performance (e.g., three-year and five-year performance) in their selection of investment products and manager recommendations to their clients, although shorter-term performance may also be an important consideration. Third-party ratings may also influence client investment decisions. We monitor quality of client service in a variety of ways, including periodic client satisfaction surveys, analysis of response times and redemption rates, competitive benchmarking of services and feedback from investment consultants.

Invesco Ltd. is organized under the laws of Bermuda. Our common shares are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “IVZ.” We maintain a website at www.invesco.com/corporate. (Information contained on our website shall not be deemed to be part of, or be incorporated into, this document).

Strategy

The company focuses on four key long-term strategic objectives that are designed to sharpen our focus on client needs, further strengthen our business over time and help ensure our long-term success:

•Achieve strong, long-term investment performance across distinct investment capabilities with clearly articulated investment philosophies and processes, aligned with client needs;
4
Table of Contents    
    
                                
•Be instrumental to our clients' success by delivering our distinctive investment capabilities worldwide to meet their needs;
•Harness the power of our global platform by continuously improving execution effectiveness to enhance quality and productivity, and allocating our resources to the opportunities that will best benefit clients and our business; and
•Perpetuate a high-performance organization by driving greater transparency, accountability, diversity of thought, fact-based decision making and execution at all levels.

As an integrated global investment manager, we are keenly focused on meeting clients' needs and operating effectively and efficiently. We take a unified approach to our business and present our financial statements and other disclosures under the single operating segment “investment management.”

We believe one of Invesco's greatest strengths is our separate, distinct investment teams in multiple markets across the globe. A key focus of our business is fostering a strong investment culture and providing the support that enables our investment teams to maintain well-performing investment capabilities. We believe the ability to leverage the capabilities of our investment teams to help clients across the globe achieve their investment objectives is a significant differentiator for our firm.

Industry Trends

Trends around the world continue to transform the investment management industry and underscore the need to be well diversified with broad capabilities globally and across asset classes:

•Distribution partners are becoming more selective and are moving towards developing fewer relationships and partners, reducing the number of investment managers with whom they work. Invesco provides a robust set of capabilities and creates investment solutions that delivers key outcomes aligned to their investment objectives. Invesco delivers competitive pricing, investor education, thought leadership, digital platforms and other value-added services that enhance the client experience.
•Clients are also demanding more from investment managers. While investment performance remains paramount, competitive pricing, client engagement and value-added services (including portfolio analytics and providing consultative solutions) increasingly differentiate managers. Invesco is working to enhance the client's user experience through digital marketing (web, mobile, social) and improved service.
•Investors continue to demand alternative, passive and smart beta strategies. As a consequence, the industry is seeing client demand for core equities portfolios decline as a share of global flows. Invesco is the #3 provider of smart beta AUM in the US and has 76 ETFs with greater than $500 million in assets. Invesco also has a strong lineup of alternative and multi-asset strategies supported by ongoing product development.
•We are seeing increased pressure on net revenue yield within the asset management industry, arising from increased use of low fee passive products and further concentration within our channel distribution partners (which increases their ability to negotiate pricing).
•Regulatory activity remains at increased levels and is influencing competitive dynamics. Increased regulatory scrutiny of managers has focused on many areas including transparency/unbundling of fees, inducements, conflicts of interest, capital, liquidity, solvency, leverage, operational risk management, controls and compensation. Invesco continues to work proactively with regulators around the world. Efforts to further modernize and strengthen our global platform will enhance our ability to compete effectively across markets while complying with the variety of applicable regulatory regimes. This is a key differentiator for large, scaled firms such as Invesco, and smaller firms may struggle to make the necessary investment to stay current and comply with the increased regulation we are seeing globally.
•Although the developed markets in the U.S. and Europe are currently the two largest markets for financial assets by a wide margin, other key emerging markets in the world, such as China and India, are growing faster and positioned for greater future growth over the long term. As these population-heavy markets mature, we believe investment managers that are truly global will be in the best position to capture this growth. Additionally, population age differences between emerging and developed markets will result in differing investment needs and horizons among countries. Asset allocation and retirement savings schemes also differ substantially among countries. We believe firms such as Invesco, with experience in key markets, and diversified investment capabilities and product types, are best positioned to meet clients' needs in this global competitive landscape. Invesco has a meaningful market presence in many of the world's most attractive regions, including North America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific. We believe our strong and growing presence in established and emerging markets provides significant long-term growth potential for our business.
5
Table of Contents    
    
                                
•Technology advances are impacting core elements of the investment management industry, which lags other industries in its use of technology. Clients increasingly seek to interact digitally with their investment portfolios. This is leading to established managers investing in and/or acquiring technology platforms. As the investment management business becomes more complex, automation will become increasingly important to serve clients effectively and efficiently. Invesco is leveraging technology across its business and exploring opportunities to work with third-party technology firms to enhance our clients' investment experience. Over the past few years, we have made strategic acquisitions to strengthen our digital wealth platform. These acquisitions and others have strengthened our ability to offer competitive digital wealth capabilities and position us ahead of the evolving client needs.

As a result of the trends discussed above, clients are seeking to work with a smaller number of asset managers who can deliver a comprehensive set of products and value-added services. They want money managers who can provide a robust set of capabilities and create investment solutions that deliver key outcomes aligned to their investment objectives. They also want greater value for their money, which means competitive pricing, investor education, thought leadership, digital platforms and other value-added services that enhance the client experience. These dynamics are driving fundamental changes within our industry and we believe will drive increasing consolidation. We believe the steps we have taken over the past decade and throughout 2020 strengthened our ability to meet client needs and will help ensure Invesco is well-positioned to compete and win within our industry over the long term.

Investment Management Capabilities

We believe that the proven strength of our distinct and globally located investment teams and their well-defined investment disciplines and risk management approach provide us with a robust competitive advantage. There are few independent investment managers with teams as globally diverse as Invesco's and with the same breadth and depth of investment capabilities and vehicles. We offer multiple investment objectives within the various asset classes and products that we manage. Our asset classes, broadly defined, include money market, balanced, equity, fixed income and alternatives.

The following sets forth our managed investment objectives by asset class:
     Money Market
     Balanced
        Equity
    Fixed Income
      Alternatives
●Custom Solutions	●Custom Solutions	●Custom Solutions	●Custom Solutions	●Custom Solutions	●Environmental, Social and Governance	●Environmental, Social and Governance	●Environmental, Social and Governance	●Environmental, Social and Governance	●Environmental, Social and Governance	●Cash Plus	●Balanced Risk	●Economic Sectors	●Buy and Hold	●Absolute Return	●Government/Treasury	●Global/Regional	●Emerging Markets	●Convertibles	●Commodities	●Prime	● Single Country	●International/Global	●Core/Core Plus	●Currencies	●Taxable	●Target Date	●Large Cap Core	●Emerging Markets	●Financial Structures	●Tax-Free	●Target Risk	●Large Cap Growth	●Government Bonds	●Global Macro		●Traditional Balanced	●Large Cap Value	●High-Yield Bonds	●Infrastructure and MLPs			●Low Volatility/Defensive	●International/Global	●Long/Short Equity			●Mid Cap Core	●Investment Grade Credit	●Managed Futures			●Mid Cap Growth	●Multi-Sector	●Multi-Alternatives			●Mid Cap Value	●Municipal Bonds	●Private and Distressed Debt			●Passive/Enhanced	●Passive/Enhanced	●Private Real Estate			●Regional/Single Country	●Regional/Single Country	●Public Real Estate Securities			●Small Cap Core	●Short/Ultra-Short Duration	●Senior Secured Loans			●Small Cap Growth	●Stable Value				●Small Cap Value	●Structured Securities				●Smart Beta/Factor-based	●Smart Beta/Factor-based						 
Distribution Channels

Retail AUM originates from clients investing into funds available to the public in the form of shares or units. Institutional AUM originates from entities such as individual corporate clients, insurance companies, endowments, foundations, government authorities, universities or charities. AUM disclosure by distribution channel represents consolidated AUM distributed by type of sales team (the company's internal distribution channels). AUM amounts disclosed as retail channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's retail sales team; whereas AUM amounts disclosed as institutional channel AUM represents AUM distributed by the company's institutional sales team.

6
Table of Contents    
    
                                
The company operates as an integrated global investment manager, presenting itself as a single firm to clients around the world. Dedicated sales forces deliver our investment strategies through a variety of vehicles that meet the needs of retail and institutional clients. Note that not all products sold in the disclosed retail distribution channel are in "retail" vehicles, and not all products sold in the disclosed institutional channel are in "institutional" vehicles, as described in the table below. This aggregation, however, is viewed as a proxy for presenting AUM in the retail and institutional markets in which we operate.

The following lists our primary investment vehicles by distribution channel:
                      Retail
             Institutional
● Closed-end Mutual Funds		● Collective Trust Funds		● Exchange-traded Funds (ETF)		● Exchange-traded Funds (ETF)		● Individual Savings Accounts (ISA)		● Institutional Separate Accounts		● Investment Companies with Variable Capital (ICVC)		● Open-end Mutual Funds		● Investment Trusts		● Private Capital Funds		● Open-end Mutual Funds				● Separately Managed Accounts (SMA)				● Société d'investissement à Capital Variable (SICAV)				● Unit Investment Trusts (UIT)				● Variable Insurance Funds			 

Retail

Retail AUM were $947.1 billion at December 31, 2020. We offer retail products within all of the major asset classes. Our retail products are primarily distributed through third-party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in North America, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in EMEA and Asia-Pacific.

The Americas, UK and EMEA ex-UK retail operations rank among the largest by AUM in their respective markets. As of December 31, 2020, Invesco holds a leading position amongst retail fund providers in the UK; Invesco's U.S. retail business, including our ETF franchise, is a top 10 asset manager in the U.S. by long-term assets, and Invesco in EMEA ex-UK is among the largest non-proprietary investment managers in the retail channel. Invesco Great Wall was one of the largest Sino-foreign managers of equity products in China, with total AUM of approximately $66.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. We provide our retail clients with one of the industry's most robust and comprehensive product lines.

Institutional

Institutional AUM were $402.8 billion in AUM as of December 31, 2020. We offer a broad suite of domestic and global strategies, including traditional and quantitative equities, fixed income (including money market funds for institutional clients), real estate, financial structures and absolute return strategies. Regional sales forces distribute our products and provide services to clients and intermediaries around the world. We have a diversified client base that includes major public entities, corporations, unions, non-profit organizations, endowments, foundations, pension funds, financial institutions and sovereign wealth funds. Invesco's institutional money market funds serve some of the largest financial institutions, government entities and corporations in the world.

AUM Diversification

One of Invesco's greatest competitive strengths is the diversification in its AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class. Our distribution network has attracted assets of 70% retail and 30% institutional as of December 31, 2020. By client domicile, 29% of client AUM are outside the U.S., and we serve clients in more than 120 countries. The following tables present a breakdown of AUM by client domicile, distribution channel and asset class as of December 31, 2020. Additionally, the fourth table below illustrates the split of our AUM as Passive and Active. Passive AUM include index-based ETFs, unit investment trusts (UITs), non-management fee earning AUM and other passive mandates. Active AUM is total AUM less Passive AUM. See the company's disclosures regarding the changes in AUM years ended December 31, 2020 in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Assets Under Management” section for additional information regarding the changes in AUM.
7
Table of Contents    
    
                                
By Client Domicile			
ivz-20201231_g2.jpg
($ in billions)	Total		1-Yr Change	
c Americas
959.9 			9.1 	%	
c UK
66.9 			(10.1)	%	
c EMEA Ex UK
151.8 			5.6 	%	
c Asia
171.3 			33.2 	%	Total	1,349.9 																			 
ivz-20201231_g3.jpg
By Distribution Channel		($ in billions)	Total		1-Yr Change	
c Retail
947.1 			7.8 	%	
c Institutional
402.8 			15.7 	%	Total	1,349.9 																							 
By Asset Class				
ivz-20201231_g4.jpg
($ in billions)	Total		1-Yr Change	
c Equity
689.6 			15.2 	%	
c Fixed Income
296.4 			4.6 	%	
c Balanced
78.9 			17.2 	%	
c Money Market
108.5 			18.7 	%	
c Alternatives
176.5 			(4.7)	%	Total	1,349.9 															 
Active vs. Passive				
ivz-20201231_g5.jpg
($ in billions)	Total		1-Yr Change	
c Active
979.3 			5.4 	%	
c Passive
370.6 			24.8 	%	Total	1,349.9 																			 
8
Table of Contents    
    
                                
Human Capital

Invesco’s long-term success depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain talent. Invesco invests significantly in talent development, health and welfare programs, technology and other resources that support our employees in developing their full potential both personally and professionally. We believe that an employee community that is diverse and inclusive; engaged in community involvement and invested in employee well-being will drive positive outcomes for our clients and shareholders.

During 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic created an unprecedented worldwide public health and business phenomenon. Our top priority in 2020 was the health and well-being of our worldwide employees. In addition to other actions taken, we continue to assess the general well-being of our employees, their ability to stay well, stay productive and stay connected.

In addition, we regularly survey our employees in a confidential survey to gauge their sentiment across a variety of engagement categories, including questions related to compensation, benefits, work/life balance, career development, inclusion, teamwork, and leadership, and more recently our focus on social justice.

We believe that diversity and inclusion are both moral and business imperatives. We are committed to improving diversity at all levels and in all functions across our global business as evidenced by our CEO and senior managing directors all including diversity and inclusion goals as part of their annual performance goals. Increasing representation of women and other underrepresented employees remains a focus for Invesco, as does building an inclusive environment. At the end of 2020, our global workforce was 39% female and 61% male, with 33% of senior managers worldwide being women. Unconscious bias training is required of all managers and is being expanded to the entire employee population. Our employees are also encouraged to participate in any of our nine Business Resource Groups where employees with diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives can connect. These Business Resource Groups are sponsored by senior leaders and are designed by employees, for employees.

As of December 31, 2020, the company had 8,512 employees with an on-the-ground presence in over 20 countries (December 31, 2019: 8,821). None of our employees are covered under collective bargaining agreements.

Competition

The investment management business is highly competitive, with points of differentiation including investment performance, the level of fees, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, the depth and continuity of relationships and quality of service. We compete with a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. We believe the quality and diversity of our investment capabilities, product types and channels of distribution enable us to compete effectively in the global investment management business. We also believe being an independent investment manager is a competitive advantage, as our business model avoids conflicts that are inherent within institutions that both manage and distribute and/or service those products. Lastly, we believe continued execution against our strategic objectives will further strengthen our long-term competitive position.

Management Contracts

We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with funds and other clients. Fees vary with the type of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, money market and stable value accounts, as well as certain ETFs. Investment management contracts are generally terminable upon thirty or fewer days' notice. Typically, retail investors may withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. Institutional clients typically may elect to terminate their relationship with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management with very short notice periods.

Risk Management

Invesco is committed to continually strengthening and evolving our risk management activities to ensure they keep pace with business change and client expectations. We believe a key factor in our ability to manage through challenging market conditions and significant business change is our integrated and global approach to risk management. Risk management is embedded in our day-to-day decision-making as well as our strategic planning process while our global risk management framework enables consistent and meaningful risk dialogue up, down and across the company.

9
Table of Contents    
    
                                
Our framework leverages two governance structures: (i) our Global Performance and Risk Committee oversees the management of core investment risks; and (ii) our Corporate Risk Management Committee oversees the management of all other business and strategy related risks. A network of regional, business unit and specific risk management committees, with oversight of the Corporate Risk Management Committee, provides ongoing identification, assessment, management and monitoring of risk that ensures both broad as well as in-depth, multi-layered coverage of the risks existing and emerging in the various domains of our business.

Available Information

The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers with the SEC, at www.sec.gov. We make available free of charge on our website, www.invesco.com/corporate, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC.
