Item 1.     BUSINESS
At Jacobs, we’re challenging today to reinvent tomorrow by solving the world’s most critical problems for thriving cities, resilient environments, mission-critical outcomes, operational advancement, scientific discovery and cutting-edge manufacturing, turning abstract ideas into realities that transform the world for good. Leveraging a talent force of more than 55,000, Jacobs provides a full spectrum of professional services including consulting, technical, scientific and project delivery for the government and private sector.
Our deep global domain knowledge - applied together with the latest advances in technology - are why customers large and small choose to partner with Jacobs. We operate in two lines of business: Critical Mission Solutions and People & Places Solutions.
After spending three years transforming our portfolio and setting the foundation to get us where we are today, we launched a three-year accelerated profitable growth strategy at our Investor Day in February 2019, focused on innovation and continued transformation to build upon our position as the leading solutions provider for our clients. This transformation included the $3.2 billion acquisition of CH2M Hill Companies, Ltd ("CH2M") and the $3.4 billion divestiture of the Company's energy, chemicals and resources business. The alignment of revenue synergies was key to the successful integration of CH2M and created a model for successful follow-on integrations like The KeyW Holding Corporation and John Wood Group’s nuclear business. These acquisitions further position us as a leader in high-value government services and technology-enabled solutions, enhancing our portfolio by adding intellectual property-driven technology with unique proprietary C5ISR (command, control, communications, computer, combat systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) rapid solutions, and amplifying Jacobs’ position as a Tier-1 global nuclear services provider.
We have turned the course of Jacobs’ future and are now focused on broadening our leadership in sustainable, high growth sectors. As part of our strategy, our new brand was created from an understanding of where we’ve been, what’s true to our culture and our strategy going forward. We articulate our bold creativity in our brand promise: Challenging today. Reinventing tomorrow. Signaling our transition from an engineering and construction company to a global technology-forward solutions company, we began trading as “J” on the New York Stock Exchange in December 2019. Our Transformation Office is charged with driving further innovation, delivering value-creating solutions for our clients and leveraging an integrated digital and technology strategy to improve our efficiency and effectiveness, ultimately freeing up valuable time and resources for reinvestment in our people.
Revenue by Type (Fiscal Year 2020)
jec-20201002_g1.jpg
Page 4

Technology and Consulting includes cybersecurity, data analytics, systems and software application integration services and consulting, enterprise and mission IT services, engineering and design, nuclear services, enterprise level operations and maintenance and other highly technical consulting solutions within Critical Mission Solutions (CMS) and data analytics, artificial intelligence and automation, software development as well as digitally-driven consulting, planning and architecture, program management and other highly technical consulting solutions within People & Places Solutions (P&PS).
Project Delivery Services includes management and execution of wind-tunnel design-build projects in CMS and progressive design-build for water and construction management for our Advanced Facilities business in P&PS. We believe these services are lower risk than typical lump-sum type construction contracting.
Pass-through Revenue includes P&PS procurement activities and revenue where we are acting as principal for subcontract labor or third-party materials and equipment and are consequently reflected in both revenues and costs.
Page 5

Challenging today. Reinventing tomorrow
Our values continue to guide our behaviors, relationships and outcomes - allowing us to act as one company and unify us worldwide when interacting with our clients, employees, communities and shareholders.
•We do things right. We always act with integrity - taking responsibility for our work, caring for our people and staying focused on safety and sustainability. We make investments in our clients, people and communities, so we can grow together.
•We challenge the accepted. We know that to create a better future, we must ask the difficult questions. We always stay curious and are not afraid to try new things.
•We aim higher. We do not settle - always looking beyond to raise the bar and deliver with excellence. We are committed to our clients by bringing innovative solutions that lead to profitable growth and shared success.
•We live inclusion. We put people at the heart of our business. We have an unparalleled focus on inclusion, with a diverse team of visionaries, thinkers and doers. We embrace all perspectives, collaborating to make a positive impact.
Our three-pillar strategy is based on the foundation of these values, as we drive to become the employer of choice, deliver connected and sustainable solutions, and leverage technology-enabled execution.
jec-20201002_g2.jpg
Page 6


We do things right
We always act with integrity - taking responsibility for our work, caring for our people and staying focused on safety and sustainability. We make investments in our clients, people and communities, so we can grow together.
From the way we operate our business, to the work we perform with clients and other organizations, we continue to look at ways we can make a positive environmental, societal and economic difference for our people, businesses, governments and communities around the world.
As we face some of the world’s toughest challenges, including clean water, affordable energy, connectivity, resilient environments, climate change, environmental pollution and economic growth, our people are discovering better ways to create an enduring legacy.
jec-20201002_g3.jpg
PlanBeyondSM is our approach to sustainability - planning beyond today for a more sustainable future for everyone. For us, this means social and economic progress while protecting our environment and improving resilience.
jec-20201002_g4.jpg

Leadership on climate change and social value
In April 2020, we published our first company Climate Action Plan committing to 100% renewable energy for our operations in 20201, net zero carbon for our operations and business travel in 2020, and being carbon negative for our operations and business travel by 2030. We will achieve net zero carbon in line with global standard PAS 2060:2014.
Our ESG Disclosures Report provides supplementary information regarding our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance, organized according to the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) framework.








1 Jacobs has achieved its 2020 Climate Action Plan commitments: carbon neutral status and 100% renewable electricity.
Page 7

Our partnership with Simetrica (a U.K.-based organization that specializes in social value measurement and wellbeing analysis) enables us to help clients understand how they can transform local, city and regional decision-making – identifying innovative, inclusive and ethical investments that will drive social change, spread prosperity and meet the growing challenges facing communities. In collaboration with Simetrica-Jacobs, we released a thought leadership paper titled Before & Beyond the Build: A blueprint for creating social value through infrastructure investments. The paper explores how infrastructure investments can contribute to addressing critical societal issues and how infrastructure could be planned, delivered/built and operated to generate enduring social value at scale and help overcome entrenched social issues in our communities.
Developing our talent … a world where you can
We put the spotlight on ensuring that Jacobs is an employer of choice in every way: we aspire to be a merit-based organization that is inclusive and diverse; we take on the responsibility to continually recruit and develop the best talent.
We are building an inclusive and diverse culture to provide a solid foundation for selecting, developing and retaining the best and brightest minds at Jacobs. Our eight Jacobs Employee Networks (JENs) play a critical role in attracting new talent into our business, helping to shape our recruiting strategies and policies, our science, technology, engineering,
arts and math (STEAM) programs, and our accessibility practices, including our Disability Employment Action Plan. Our global STEAM Ambassador network helps us build partnerships with schools and other educational organizations and form lasting relationships that inspire the next generation and sustain our business.
Our global career program "e3: engage. excel. elevate." is our unique approach to ensuring every employee can engage with our global network, excel in their role and elevate their career. Our Total Rewards Compensation Program, includes our unique Global Career Structure framework, combining career planning and development resources and tools
within a consistent career structure.
Conducting our business with integrity
Jacobs' ethics and Code of Conduct are rooted in our values and provide the standards and support to help us successfully navigate issues, make the right decisions and conduct our business with the integrity that reflects our heritage and ethical reputation. We hold our suppliers and business partners to the same standards.
Our culture of caring
BeyondZero® is our approach to the health, safety and security of our people, the protection of the environment and the resilience of Jacobs. Our BeyondZero® culture of caring goes beyond taking health and safety statistics to zero, so that genuine care and respect for all people are fundamental to our culture and reaches beyond our workplace. We work together to create a workplace that values the safety, positive mental health and sense of belonging of all employees.
While our BeyondZero journey started with safety, as we continued to drive our injury rates down, we also expanded our thinking to our broader culture of caring and particularly mental health. Through our mental health matters program, we furthered our industry-leading efforts to empower our workforce, so they know they work in an environment where their mental health and well-being is the top priority and where everyone can "bring their whole self to work." We have almost 2,000 Positive Mental Health Champions trained in how to guide staff who have mental health concerns or crises to the appropriate level of help; support fellow employees; and help us encourage positive mental health throughout the workplace.
Supporting our communities
We live and play in the communities where we work - so we’re personally invested in doing what is right for people in the places and communities we’re connected with. We craft solutions that affect the way people live. Thinking beyond one-dimensional approaches to help improve social, environmental and economic resiliency. We provide infrastructure, technology and intelligence solutions to help communities build resiliency today for a better tomorrow.
Page 8

From volunteering, employee matching campaigns and other fundraising, to providing wide-ranging technical and logistics support, every day, Jacobs employees around the world make a positive difference for our clients and communities. As part of our PlanBeyond™ sustainability strategy, the Collectively℠ program (our Global Giving and Volunteering program) governs and centralizes our giving strategy and budget and provides a user-friendly way for employees to donate and volunteer. The program unites our approximately 55,000 employees to support more than 2 million charities around the globe.

Page 9

We challenge the accepted
We know that to create a better future, we must ask the difficult questions. We always stay curious and are not afraid to try new things.
What we do is more than a job, we work every day to make the world better for all. To us, everything we do - whether water scarcity, aging infrastructure, access to life-saving therapies or sophisticated cyberattacks - is more than projects outlined in proposals and business plans. They’re our challenges as human beings, too.
Transforming our innovation culture
For us, innovation means creating and delivering value — whether it’s new or different ideas, ways of working, services or solutions. In the past year, we continued pushing our innovative mindset. We established our Innovation as a Service series of workshops and embraced an innovation portfolio management platform to enable collaboration across internal and external teams, facilitating knowledge sharing and leading commercial practices. We launched two Jacobs podcasts series, If/When and Inflection Points, and virtual engagement platforms like our Trends & Directions videocasts and In the kNOW webinar series.

jec-20201002_g5.jpg
Beyond If is our award-winning global innovation program instilling and sustaining our innovation culture. It represents our creativity and agility to challenge the accepted, with the domain expertise to push beyond our boundaries and deliver for today and into tomorrow. We act to turn ideas into reality and create outcomes that deliver value for our clients and society at large.


Page 10

We aim higher
We do not settle - always looking beyond to raise the bar and deliver with excellence. We are committed to our clients by bringing innovative solutions that lead to profitable growth and shared success. We take on some of the world’s biggest challenges, bringing a different way of thinking to everything we do, challenging the status quo and questioning what others might accept.

We craft solutions that affect the way people live. From first-of-its-kind environmental cleanup efforts to digital twin technologies, from helping communities adapt and thrive to retrofitting vaccine facilities to protect public health, we solve for better, never losing sight of our responsibility to each other. We work with NASA scientists to leverage remotely-sensed data and images shot from 240 miles overhead on the International Space Station to provide critical disaster response aid, and help communities recover. And, we’re on the ground assisting with critical Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) disaster-related operations throughout the U.S. and its territories.
The table below highlights examples of our key focus areas where we combine our deep domain knowledge with the latest advances in technology to deliver solutions to solve our customer's most complex challenges.
jec-20201002_g6.jpg
jec-20201002_g7.jpg
BeyondExcellence℠ is our global program focused on quality, performance excellence and recognizing those who set the new standard through our awards program.

Page 11


We live inclusion
We put people at the heart of our business. We have an unparalleled focus on inclusion, with a diverse team of visionaries, thinkers and doers. We embrace all perspectives, collaborating to make a positive impact.
The aperture of inclusion is broader than lifestyle and culture. Joining, belonging and thriving - these are Jacobs’ key elements in retaining talent and developing a culture where people want to stay - a place where you can bring your whole self to work. Fiscal 2020 brought a lot of change for our people - a talent force of approximately 55,000 - and we doubled down on making sure talent, inclusion and diversity remained at the top of our priorities by focusing on the employee experience.
Our eight Jacobs Employee Networks (JENs) have nearly 23,000 members among them and work to promote inclusion and equality, not only within Jacobs but with our clients, potential recruits and with the communities that we serve. The JENs are entirely employee-led and organized, partnering with leadership to drive strategy and policy.
In 2020, we launched our global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality. Driven by members of our Black employee network, Harambee, in partnership with our Executive Leadership Team and Jacobs’ Board of Directors, the plan sets out actionable initiatives and measurable objectives to address embedded and systemic racial inequalities both within Jacobs and in communities across the world.
We tied inclusive behavior to our leaders’ performance review and compensation programs and delivered conscious inclusion training to nearly all (98%) of our people.



Page 12

jec-20201002_g8.jpg
jec-20201002_g9.jpg
TogetherBeyond℠ is our approach to living inclusion every day and enabling diversity and equality globally. It’s not just about numbers, statistics or quotas — it’s about every one of our people and the collective strength we take from their unique perspectives, ambitions and dreams.
Page 13

We maintain agile and disciplined capital deployment
Consistent with our profitable growth strategy, Jacobs pursues acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions to maximize long-term value by continuing to reshape its portfolio to higher value solutions.
On April 26, 2019, Jacobs completed the sale of its Energy, Chemicals and Resources ("ECR") business to Worley Limited, a company incorporated in Australia ("Worley"), for a purchase price of $3.4 billion consisting of (i) $2.8 billion in cash plus (ii) 58.2 million ordinary shares of Worley, subject to adjustments for changes in working capital and certain other items (the “ECR sale”). ECR provided engineering and construction services mainly for energy, chemicals and resources sectors. With the sale of ECR, the Company has exited direct hire construction and fixed price lump sum energy related construction.
The Company has deployed capital to accelerate its profitable growth strategy through the following recent acquisitions:
•On March 6, 2020, we acquired the nuclear consulting, remediation and program management business of John Wood Group ("John Wood Group" or "Wood Group"), a U.K.-based energy services company.
•On June 12, 2019, we acquired The KeyW Holding Corporation (“KeyW”), a U.S. based national security technology solutions provider to the intelligence, cyber, and counterterrorism communities
•On December 15, 2017, we acquired CH2M, a provider of consulting and other services in the water, environmental, transportation and nuclear remediation sectors.
During fiscal 2020 the Company repurchased $337.3 million of shares and paid $144.0 million in dividends to shareholders and noncontrolling interests.
For additional information regarding certain issues related to our acquisition strategy, please refer to Item 1A-  Risk Factors below.
Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business
On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization characterized the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) as a global pandemic and recommended certain containment and mitigation measures. On March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency concerning the outbreak, and the vast majority of states and many municipalities declared public health emergencies or took similar actions. Along with these declarations, there were extraordinary and wide-ranging actions taken by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat outbreaks of COVID-19 in regions across the United States and around the world. These actions included quarantines and “stay-at-home” or “shelter-in-place” orders, social distancing measures, travel restrictions, school closures and similar mandates for many individuals in order to substantially restrict daily activities and orders for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations unless their work is critical, essential or life-sustaining. Although certain jurisdictions have subsequently taken steps to lift or ease such restrictions to various degrees, many jurisdictions have subsequently reversed, or indicated they are considering reversing, such lifting or easing in response to increased cases of COVID-19. In addition, governments and central banks in the United States and other countries in which we operate have enacted fiscal and monetary stimulus and assistance measures to counteract the economic impacts of COVID-19.
As it became clear that the pandemic was unparalleled in the rate of community spread, we took early, decisive action to put people first, help flatten the curve and take care of our clients and communities. In early March, we swiftly restricted travel and established return protocols for both client-related and personal travel. In 10 days, we successfully transitioned more than 85% of our employees to a remote working environment to support physical distancing. Where the essential and mission-critical nature of our work requires us to maintain staff at certain sites or locations, we worked closely with our clients and established project-specific plans designed to ensure the safety of our people and the integrity of our operation. Using technology and optimizing our networks, we continue to offer flexible work scenarios for our people, and to deliver business continuity for and continued collaboration with our clients. Our Executive Leadership Team met daily for the first three months and weekly thereafter, focusing on transparency, agile response and business resiliency; and our global and regional crisis management teams continued to maintain consistent messaging and direct local responses. Regular global Town Halls, a weekly Chair and CEO email and short, self-produced leadership videos share open, transparent information to connect and unite our global community.
Page 14

We are a company operating in a critical infrastructure industry, as defined by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. Consistent with international, federal, state and local requirements to date, we continue to materially operate. In addition, demand for certain of our services, including those supporting health care relief efforts relating to COVID-19, has increased, and could continue to increase, as a result of COVID-19. Notwithstanding our continued critical operations, COVID-19 has negatively impacted our business, and may have further adverse impacts on our continued operations, including those listed and discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, we have reduced spending broadly across the Company, only proceeding with operating and capital spending that is critical. We have also ceased all non-essential hiring and reduced discretionary expenses, including certain employee benefits and compensation. Looking ahead, we have developed contingency plans to reduce costs further if the situation further deteriorates or lasts longer than current expectations. We will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be necessary or appropriate for the health and safety of employees, contractors, customers, suppliers or others or as required by international, federal, state or local authorities.
Based on current estimates, we expect the impact of COVID-19 to continue in the first half of fiscal 2021, although to a lesser degree than what was seen in fiscal 2020. Although this business disruption is expected to be temporary, significant uncertainty exists concerning the magnitude, duration and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including with regard to the effects on our customers and customer demand for our services. Accordingly, actual results for future fiscal periods could differ materially versus current expectations and current results and financial condition discussed herein may not be indicative of future operating results and trends.
For a discussion of risks and uncertainties related to COVID-19, including the potential impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.
Page 15

Lines of Business
The services we provide fall into the following two lines of business (LOB): Critical Mission Solutions (CMS) and People & Places Solutions (P&PS) which are also the Company’s reportable segments. For additional information regarding our segments, including information about our financial results by segment and financial results by geography, see Note 19 - Segment Information of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Critical Mission Solutions (CMS)
Our Critical Mission Solutions line of business provides a full spectrum of cyber, data analytics, systems and software application integration services and consulting, enterprise level operations and maintenance and mission IT, engineering and design, enterprise operations and maintenance, program management, and other highly technical consulting solutions to government agencies as well as commercial customers. Our representative clients include the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD), the Combatant Commands, the U.S. Intelligence Community, NASA, the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE), Ministry of Defence in the U.K., the U.K. Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA), and the Australian Department of Defence, as well as private sector customers mainly in the aerospace, automotive, energy and telecom sectors.
Serving mission-critical end markets

Critical Mission Solutions serves broad sectors, including U.S. government services, cyber, nuclear, commercial, and international sectors.

Fiscal Year 2020
jec-20201002_g10.jpgjec-20201002_g11.jpg
The U.S. government is the world’s largest buyer of technical services, and in fiscal 2020, approximately 79% of CMS’s revenue was earned from serving the DoD, Intelligence Community and Federal Civilian governmental entities.
Trends affecting our government clients include information warfare, cyber, IT modernization, space exploration and intelligence, defense systems and intelligent asset management, which are driving demand for our highly technical solutions.
Page 16

Another trend we are witnessing is an increase in the capabilities of unmanned aircraft and hypersonic weapons, which is impacting both offensive and defensive spending priorities among our clients and is a driver for next generation solutions such as C5ISR (command, control, communications, computer, combat systems, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance) and advanced aeronautical testing, respectively. We are also seeing an increase in space exploration initiatives both from the U.S. government, such as NASA’s Artemis program to return to the moon in 2024, as well as the commercial sector.
Within the nuclear sector, our customers have decades-long initiatives to manage, upgrade, decommission and remediate existing energy infrastructure and nuclear weapons.
Our international customers, which accounted for 13% of fiscal 2020 revenue, have also increased demand for our IT and cybersecurity solutions and nuclear projects, and the U.K. Ministry of Defence continues to focus on accelerating its strategic innovative and technology focused initiatives.
Leveraging our base market of offering valued technical services to U.S. government customers, CMS also serves commercial and international markets. In fiscal 2020, approximately 8% of CMS’s revenue was from various U.S. commercial sectors, including the telecommunications sector, which anticipates a large cellular infrastructure build-out from 4G to 5G technology. And like our government facility-based clients, our commercial manufacturing clients are seeking ways to reduce maintenance costs and optimize their facilities with network connected facilities and equipment to optimize operational systems, which we refer to as Intelligent Asset Management.
Leveraging strong domain expertise to deliver solutions
CMS brings domain-specific capability and cross-market innovations in each of the above sectors by leveraging six core capability groups.
•Information Technology Services. Across various business units in CMS, we provide a wide range of software development and enterprise IT solutions. We develop, integrate, modify and maintain software solutions and complex systems. These services include a broad array of lifecycle services, including requirements analysis, design, integration, testing, maintenance, quality assurance and documentation management. Our software activities support all major methodologies, including Agile, DevSecOps and other hybrid methodologies. For our enterprise IT capability, we develop, implement and sustain enterprise information technology systems, with a focus on improving mission performance, increasing security and reducing cost for our customers. Solutions typically include IT service management, data center consolidation, network operations, enterprise architecture, mobile computing, cloud computing and migration, software, infrastructure and platform as a service (SaaS, IaaS and PaaS), and data collection and analytics.
•Cyber and Data Analytics. Strongly enhanced by our recent acquisition of KeyW, CMS offers a full suite of cyber services for our government and commercial clients, including defensive cyber operations and training, offensive cyber operations, cloud and data analytics, threat intelligence, intelligence analysis, incident response and forensics, software and infrastructure security engineering, computer forensics and exploitation and information technology-operational technology (IT-OT) convergence services.
•C5ISR (Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Combat Systems, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance). CMS is a leader in the design, development, analysis, implementation and support of C5ISR systems and technology in any environment, including land, sea, air, space and cyber domains. We provide advanced solutions for collecting, processing, exploiting and disseminating geospatial intelligence for the U.S. and Allied Intelligence Communities and Special Forces organizations. Core capabilities include: imaging systems, radar systems, precision geo-location products, custom packaging and microelectronics and customizable tagging, tracking and locating devices.
•Technical Services. We provide a broad range of technical consulting services to our government and commercial clients, including: systems integration, specialized propulsion, avionics, electrical, materials, aerodynamics, manufacturing processes modeling and simulation, testing and evaluation, scientific research, intelligent asset management, program management and consulting. NASA is one of our major government customers in the U.S., where we provide a wide range of technology services. For our telecommunications customers, we provide permitting, site planning and engineering to enable the development of wireline and wireless communications including the development of 5G small cell sites.
Page 17

•Facility Engineering and Operations. We provide services for advanced technical structures and systems, including flight/launch facilities, R&D facilities, test facilities and military range facilities. Customers also engage us to operate, maintain and provide technical services for these facilities and systems over their lives. We also provide sustainment and technical services for facility-oriented clients including for the automotive industry where we provide highly technical aerodynamic, climatic, altitude and acoustic solutions for our customer research and development operations.
•Nuclear Solutions. We provide support across the full nuclear life cycle, including new build, operational support, and decommissioning. Support includes project management, engineering, technical and R&D services, complemented by the full range of CMS’ other services. Customers include the U.S. DoE, the UK’s NDA, and commercial companies such as EDF Energy, the UK’s largest producer of low-carbon energy.
Applying internally-developed technology
Across multiple businesses within CMS we license internally developed technology such as:
•KeyRadar®: The acquisition of KeyW brought numerous internally developed technologies, including KeyRadar, a scalable, software-defined synthetic aperture radar that can be configured to address a variety of missions, ranging from foliage penetration to long-range maritime domain awareness or long-range moving target detection.
•Ginkgo: Ginkgo is the only virtual learning environment specifically created for cybersecurity training. Designed by experienced cyber instructors, Ginkgo offers a complete solution for implementing hands-on IT and cybersecurity training for both local and distance learning environments on desktops, tablets, and other mobile devices.
•ion©: ion© is our open architecture, multi-protocol Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) software solution providing an integrated, secure, and scalable platform for data aggregation integration, analysis and visualization. Ion© is both licensed and delivered as-a-service (aas) to commercial customers around the globe to enable a host of operational solutions, ranging from worker monitoring and safety to industrial asset visibility and management to smart/connected construction. Most recently, Jacobs is using ion© to support Return to Work solutions that allow our pharmaceutical clients to return mission essential personnel to their advanced research and production facilities despite the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.

Page 18

People & Places Solutions (P&PS)
Jacobs' People & Places Solutions line of business provides end-to-end solutions for our clients’ most complex projects - whether connected mobility, integrated water management, smart cities, advanced manufacturing or environmental stewardship. In doing so, we employ predictive analytics, artificial intelligence and automation, digital twin technology, IoT smart sensors, geospatial visualization and advanced delivery processes and tools for consulting, planning, architecture, design, engineering, and implementation, as well as long-term operation of facilities and infrastructure. Solutions may be delivered as standalone engagements or through comprehensive program management that integrates disparate workstreams to yield additional benefits not attainable through project-by-project implementation. We also provide progressive design-build and construction management at-risk delivery for our P&PS clients.
Our clients include national, state and local government in the U.S., Europe, U.K., Middle East, Australia, New Zealand and Asia, as well as multinational private sector clients throughout the world.
Fiscal Year 2020
jec-20201002_g12.jpgjec-20201002_g13.jpg
Serving broad market sectors that support people and places
Aging infrastructure; climate action; urbanization; water, food and energy security; global supply chains; pandemic preparedness and response; environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG); and digital transformation are driving new challenges and opportunities for our clients. These drivers are highlighting the need for holistic, integrated technology solutions that draw on the domain knowledge resident in the multidisciplinary consulting and delivery expertise of our global workforce. For example, an airport is no longer simply aviation infrastructure but is now a smart city with extensive operational, cybersecurity and autonomous mobility requirements, as well as the contactless travel requirements necessary to best manage COVID-19. Master planning for a city now requires advanced analytics to plan for climate adaption and next-generation mobility as well as revenue generating fiber infrastructure. Furthermore, the future of nearly all water infrastructure will be highly technology-enabled, leveraging solutions with digital twins, predictive analytics and smart metering technology to ensure we're giving communities, industries and regions the secure water resource they need to flourish and expand.
This increase in technology requirements is a key factor in our organic growth strategy as well as our recent acquisitions and divestitures. Moreover, our business model is evolving to provision a broader spectrum of digital- and technology-enabled solutions to address our infrastructure clients' challenges with less exposure to craft construction services. Our focus on the five core sectors of Transportation, Water, Built Environment, Environmental and Advanced Facilities provides us with the ability to leverage our expansive domain expertise across all global markets, enabling truly end-to-end connected solutions for our clients' most complex major projects and programs, including the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, Expo 2020 Dubai, and the LaGuardia Airport Redevelopment.
Page 19

Today, we are executing complex solutions that pull expertise from all markets, fused with digital expertise, for major developments in places like London, Dubai, Sydney, Singapore, Miami, Los Angeles and Toronto.
Leveraging our global platform to deliver integrated solutions to clients
One of our key differentiators is our global integrated delivery model, which harnesses deep domain expertise from our global Solutions and Technology organization that is leveraged with the benefits of scale when we focus the world’s best talent to deliver innovative solutions and value to our clients.
•Within transportation, we provide sustainable solutions to plan, develop, finance, design engineer, construct, operate and maintain next generation mobility across all modes, including highway, bridge, rail and transit, aviation, port and maritime infrastructure. For example, we do this by assessing the impact of autonomous vehicles on roadways and cities for transportation agencies, engineering and specifying vehicles for mass-transit; delivering consulting services for digital fare payment systems; providing program management of the largest airport developments, designing cutting edge automated container terminals and ports infrastructure and utilizing big data to develop cross modal mobility solutions. Our clients encompass the world’s largest transportation agencies as well as private shipping and logistics companies worldwide, including the multi-modal Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, Transport for London, Highways England, Transport for New South Wales and Etihad Rail.
•Water is one of the most precious resources in the world. Extreme weather events in the form of droughts, desertification and flooding are stressing water supplies, at the same time as population growth and industrialization are increasing demand. Addressing these challenges, we provide integrated solutions across water and wastewater treatment, water reuse, and water resources such as the deployment of next generation smart metering, digital twin technology and highly technical consulting, engineering, design-build and operation of complex water systems. We support our clients on some of the world’s largest water infrastructure projects such as California WaterFix, Thames Tideway, Houston Water and Singapore National Water Agency.
•For the built environment, we deliver full-service architecture, engineering, interiors, planning, urban design, landscape architecture and project delivery solutions for government, corporate, commercial, institutional and industrial clients across diverse sectors. Our technology-enabled expertise ranges from the future of work, transaction advisory and asset management to transportation hubs, urban developments, government, healthcare, higher education and science facilities, as well as sports and entertainment venues. We plan and deliver resilient, triple bottom line-based solutions that are connected, secure and smart, including the rebuild of Tyndall Air Force Base in Florida into a visionary Installation of the Future; the corporate headquarters and research facility relocation of Spark Therapeutics in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; and the expanded Blacktown Mount Druitt Hospital in New South Wales, Australia.
•In our environmental business, we utilize a multidisciplinary, systems-oriented approach to develop environmental planning for infrastructure development; data-driven site remediation and regeneration for per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) and other known and emerging contaminants; environmental health & safety (EHS) operational excellence and information management; and climate action solutions that incorporate sustainability and resiliency principles as essential to the well-being of all people and of our planet. We also provide post-disaster response and recovery services in support of the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s mission throughout the U.S. In addition to providing end-to-end technology-enabled solutions for multinational oil & gas, chemical and life sciences, mining, manufacturing and energy clients, Jacobs provides comprehensive environmental services for the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, NASA and other civilian agencies, the UK Environment Agency, and the Australian Department of Defense.
•Within advanced facilities, we provide fully integrated solutions for highly specialized facilities in the fields of medical research, sustainable manufacturing, nanoscience, biotechnology, semiconductor and data centers. Our services span the full range of facility work, from early planning and site selection through architecture, engineering, construction and facility operations, all tailored to specific client needs in the life sciences and pharmaceutical, specialty manufacturing, microelectronics and data intensive industries. As the largest professional services provider to the biopharmaceutical industry, we are working with our multinational clients to rapidly increase capacity for vaccines and therapeutics, as well as reshoring manufacturing facilities, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Representative projects include the retrofit of AstraZeneca’s West Chester, Ohio manufacturing facility to deliver a potential COVID-19 vaccine;
Page 20

the Mountbatten Nanotechnology Electronics Research Complex, University of Southampton, U.K.; and the Procter & Gamble, Singapore Innovation Center.
Applying internally developed technology
A strong foundation of data-rich innovative solutions is woven into every project that we deliver. This may include Jacobs-developed proprietary software that employs an array of technical expertise to enable the most efficient, effective and predictable solutions for our clients. Examples of these technologies include:
•TrackRecord is a workflow automation and compliance management platform for the delivery of major projects.
•AquaDNA is a predictive analytics platform that integrates innovative technologies for wastewater asset management through an AI learning platform, facilitating a move from reactive to proactive maintenance and reduced operation and maintenance costs.
•Travel Service Optimisation (TSO) is Jacobs' travel sharing solution for Special Education needs children which centers on the children’s ability to travel together rather than focusing on their disability.
•SafetyWeb is a site hazard management and compliance tool.
•ProjectMapper is a web based geospatial mapping and project visualization software platform.
•Flood Modeller provides proactive decision-making to help manage our environment and the challenges associated with flood risk. It is suitable for a wide range of engineering and environmental applications, from calculating simple backwater profiles and modeling entire catchments to mapping potential flood risk for entire countries.
•ion© is an Industrial Internet of Things (IoT) multi-protocol wireless application networking system which provides an open, integrated, secure and scalable system for data aggregation and viewing.
•Replica™ is Jacobs’ digital twin solution software platform and consists of the following capabilities:
Replica Parametric Design™ (formerly CPES™) provides outputs on construction quantities and costs, life cycle quantities and costs, and estimates of environmental impacts. Rapid process design in Replica Process and the resulting development of the Replica Parametric Designs allows for thorough alternatives analysis and enhanced team communication.  
Replica Preview™ is used for early stage visualization of facility designs. This software rapidly creates scaled three-dimensional designs, which can be placed on Google Earth®. Rapid design development in Replica Parametric Design and visualization with Replica Preview allows for informed analysis of many alternatives and sound decision-making.
Replica Systems Analysis™ (formerly Voyage™) is a flexible platform that can simulate resource systems dynamically, over time. Examples of modeled systems include water resources, energy, solid waste and traffic. The ability to connect complex systems together in a single interface that is visually intuitive leads to informed team collaboration and creative solutions.
Replica Process™ allows Jacobs' world-renowned expertise in water treatment to be simulated both statically and dynamically over time in Replica Process™ software. Much of the process predictive capabilities in Replica Process are founded on the Jacobs' Pro2D2™ and Source™ software. Informed decisions are founded on the ability of Replica Process to provide details on system performance among many alternatives, very quickly.
Replica Hydraulics™ was designed to simulate all pressurized and gravity flow hydraulics of a system, simultaneously. Replica’s hydraulic blocks were built on accepted engineering practice equations and have been successfully verified on hundreds of projects. The Replica Hydraulics library is the foundation for complete, dynamic water system analysis and can be used exclusively for hydraulic analysis of a system or in conjunction with Replica Process, Replica Controls and/or Replica Air.
Replica Controls™ allows for dynamic simulation of system instrumentation such as flow meters, indicator transmitters, limit switches and stream analyzers as well as the logic objects including PID controllers, sequencers, units, controller and alarms. The software's controls capabilities and functionality align with industry design standards and its ability to predict full scale performance is unmatched due to the connectivity with Replica Hydraulics.
Page 21

Replica Air™ simulates all aspects of a compressible fluid (e.g. air) supply system, including pipes, valves, diffusers and blowers. The ability to couple Replica Air with Replica Controls in a single simulation allows for the development of unique and robust designs that reduce energy use and life cycle costs.

Energy, Chemicals and Resources (ECR)
ECR Disposition
On April 26, 2019, Jacobs completed the sale of its Energy, Chemicals and Resources (ECR) business to Worley Limited, a company incorporated in Australia (Worley), for a purchase price of $3.4 billion consisting of (i) $2.8 billion in cash plus (ii) 58.2 million ordinary shares of Worley, subject to adjustments for changes in working capital and certain other items (the ECR sale).
As a result of the ECR sale, substantially all ECR-related assets and liabilities were sold (the "Disposal Group"). We determined that the disposal group should be reported as discontinued operations in accordance with ASC 210-05, Discontinued Operations because their disposal represents a strategic shift that had a major effect on our operations and financial results. As such, the financial results of the ECR business are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Additionally, assets and liabilities of the ECR business were reflected as held-for-sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets through September 27, 2019. As of the year ended October 2, 2020, all of the ECR business to be sold under the terms of the sale has been conveyed to Worley and as such, no amounts remain held for sale. For further discussion see Note 15- Sale of Energy, Chemicals and Resources ("ECR") Business to the consolidated financial statements.
Prior to the sale, the ECR business served the energy, chemicals and resources sectors, including upstream, midstream and downstream oil, gas, refining, chemicals and mining and minerals industries. The ECR business provided integrated delivery of complex projects for our Oil and Gas, Refining, and Petrochemicals clients. Bridging the upstream, midstream and downstream industries, ECR's services encompassed consulting, engineering, procurement, construction, maintenance and project management.  
Significant Customers
The following table sets forth the percentage of total revenues earned directly or indirectly from agencies of the U.S. federal government for each of the last three fiscal years:  
														
2020		2019	 	2018
33%		27%	 	32%
Given the percentage of total revenue derived directly from the U.S. federal government, the loss of U.S. federal government agencies as customers would have a material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, any or all of our government contracts could be terminated, we could be suspended or debarred from all government contract work, or payment of our costs could be disallowed. Approximately 80% of revenue derived directly from the U.S. federal government is in the CMS segment. For more information on risks relating to our government contracts, see Item 1A - Risk Factors.
Contracts
While there is considerable variation in the pricing provisions of the contracts we undertake, our contracts generally fall into two broad categories: cost-reimbursable and fixed-price. The following table sets forth the percentages of total revenues represented by these types of contracts for each of the last three fiscal years:
																	
	2020		2019	 	2018
Cost-reimbursable	76%		76%		74%
Fixed-price, limited risk	17%		18%		19%
Fixed-price, at risk	7%		6%		7%
In accordance with industry practice, most of our contracts (including those with the U.S. federal government) are subject to termination at the discretion of the client, which is discussed in greater detail in Item 1A - Risk Factors. In such situations, our contracts typically provide for reimbursement of costs incurred and payment of fees earned through the date of termination.
Page 22

Cost-Reimbursable Contracts
Cost-reimbursable contracts generally provide for reimbursement of costs incurred plus an amount of profit. The profit element may be in the form of a simple mark-up applied to the labor costs incurred or it may be in the form of a fee, or a combination of a mark-up and a fee. The fee element can also take several forms. The fee may be a fixed amount; it may be an amount based on a percentage of the costs incurred; or it may be an incentive fee based on targets, milestones, or performance factors defined in the contract.
Fixed-Price Contracts
Fixed-price contracts include both “lump sum bid” contracts and “negotiated fixed-price” contracts. Under lump sum bid contracts, we typically bid against competitors based on client-furnished specifications. This type of pricing presents certain inherent risks, including the possibility of ambiguities in the specifications received, problems with new technologies, and economic and other changes that may occur over the contract period. Additionally, it is not unusual for lump sum bid contracts to lead to an adversarial relationship with clients, which is contrary to our relationship-based business model. Accordingly, lump sum bid contracts are not our preferred form of contract. In contrast, under a negotiated fixed-price contract, we are selected as the contractor first and then we negotiate a price with our client. Negotiated fixed-price contracts frequently exist in single-responsibility arrangements where we perform some portion of the work before negotiating the total price of the project. Thus, although both types of contracts involve a firm price for the client, the lump sum bid contract provides the greater degree of risk to us in our services contracts as well as construction. However, because of economies that may be realized during the contract term, both negotiated fixed-price and lump sum bid contracts may offer greater profit potential than other types of contracts. The Company carefully manages the risk inherent in these types of contracts.  In recent years, most of our fixed-price work has been either negotiated fixed-price contracts or lump sum bid contracts for design and/or project services, rather than turnkey construction.
Competition
We compete with a large number of companies across the world including technology consulting, federal IT services, aerospace, defense and engineering firms. Typically, no single company or companies dominate the markets in which we provide services and in many cases we partner with our competitors or other companies to jointly pursue projects. AECOM, Booz Allen, CACI, KBR, Leidos, Parsons, SAIC, Tetra Tech, WSP, General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman are some of our competitors. We compete based on the following factors, among others: technical capabilities, reputation for quality, price of services, safety record, availability of qualified personnel, and ability to timely perform work and contract terms.
Human Capital Management
At Jacobs, our people are the heart of our business. With our culture of caring and inclusion as our foundation, we celebrate the differences that drive our collective strength and encourage our employees that there is no limit to who they can be and what we can achieve. Together we deliver extraordinary solutions for a better tomorrow and live by our employee value statement: Jacobs. A world where you can.
As of October 2, 2020, we had a workforce of approximately 55,000 people worldwide, including a contingent workforce of approximately 3,000 people. The breakdown of our employees by region is as follows:

								
Region		
Percentage of Global Workforce(1)
Americas		62 	%
Europe (including U.K)		23 	%
Asia Pacific (including India)		12 	%
Middle East and Africa		3 	%
		
(1) Excludes contingent workforce

Hiring, Training and Developing our Workforce
The success of Jacobs is dependent on our ability to hire, retain, engage and leverage highly qualified employees, including engineers, architects, designers, digital specialists, craft employees and corporate professionals. We put the
Page 23

spotlight on ensuring that Jacobs is an employer of choice in every way: we aspire to be a merit-based organization that is inclusive and diverse; we are building an inclusive culture where all employees feel they belong. Our culture is the foundation for selecting, developing and retaining the best and brightest minds at Jacobs. Our eight Jacobs Employee Networks (JENs) play a critical role in attracting new talent into our business, helping to shape our recruiting strategies and policies, our science, technology, engineering, arts and math programs, and our accessibility practices. In fiscal 2020, more than1,300 graduates, interns and apprentices were welcomed to our global team.
In fiscal 2020, we launched our new employee experience e3: engage. excel. elevate. From a talent profile for every employee to providing continuous celebrations and feedback, and learning new skills and driving performance, e3 is our unique approach to ensuring every employee can engage, excel in their role and elevate their career. We also introduced GlobalShare to enhance our ability to resolve short-term staffing needs and enable employees to pursue opportunities across Jacobs. We also made enhancements to some of our policies to deliver greater work-day flexibility to employees. Additionally, we undertook several new initiatives related to our Total Rewards Program, including implementing our Global Career Structure framework, combining career planning and development resources and tools within a consistent career structure, and a global pay equity review of our pay systems and processes to make pay equity a lasting reality at Jacobs.
Focus on Inclusion and Diversity
At Jacobs we have an unparalleled focus on inclusion, with a diverse team of visionaries, thinkers and doers. We embrace all perspectives, collaborating to make a positive impact. The aperture of inclusion is broader than lifestyle and culture. Joining, belonging and thriving are Jacobs’ key elements in retaining talent and developing a culture where people want to stay – and a place where you can bring your best, whole self to work.
TogetherBeyond℠ is our approach to living inclusion every day and enabling diversity and equality globally – it is not just about numbers and statistics, but about every one of our people and the collective strength we take from their unique perspectives and ambitions.
Having a culture of belonging where everyone can join in and thrive allows us to recruit and retain the best global talent and drive innovative solutions for our business, clients and communities. “We live inclusion” is supported by the strength of tangible leadership commitment and accountability at Jacobs. In that regard, we have tied inclusive behavior to our leaders’ performance review and compensation programs and delivered conscious inclusion training to nearly all (98%) of our people.
As of October 2, 2020, our U.S. employees had the following race and ethnicity demographics:

								
		
October 2, 2020
		All U.S. Employees (1)
White		71.4 	%
Hispanic / Latino		8.9 	%
Black		8.5 	%
Asian		6.8 	%
Multiracial		2.0 	%
American Indian or Alaska Native		0.4 	%
Native Hawaiian / Other Pacific Islander		0.3 	%
Not provided		1.7 	%
		
(1) Includes U.S. employee population only (excluding approximately 2,000 craft employees)

Over the last year, we have seen tangible examples of progress resulting from our approach to inclusion. In fiscal 2020, we launched our global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality. Driven by members of our Black employee network, Harambee, in partnership with our Executive Leadership Team and Jacobs’ Board of Directors, the Action Plan sets out actionable initiatives and measurable objectives to address advance equality within the company and around the communities where we work.
Page 24

As of October 2, 2020, our global employees had the following gender demographics:

											
	
October 2, 2020
	Women		Men
All employees	
29.5%
		
70.5%

Looking ahead, we will continue to focus on inclusion and diversity by:
•Following through on our global Action Plan for Advancing Justice and Equality
•Striving to achieve our aspirational goals of creating a more gender-balanced and racially/ethnically diverse workforce around the globe to more appropriately reflect the labor markets and communities in which we live and serve
•Amplifying our culture of belonging
•Measuring employee sense of inclusion and belonging through a global survey
•Identifying, developing and promoting allies across Jacobs
We know we have more to do when it comes to increasing the representation of historically underrepresented groups within our global workforce, and we are committed to taking action and ensuring Jacobs is, and remains, an employer of choice.
Our Employees’ Safety and Wellbeing
BeyondZero® is our approach to the health, safety and security of our people, the protection of the environment and the resilience of Jacobs. In fiscal 2020, we continued to demonstrate safety excellence with another year of zero employee fatalities at work, a 25% reduction in employee recordable incidents from fiscal 2019, and a total recordable incident rate of 0.17 (recorded in accordance with OSHA record keeping requirements) as of October 2, 2020 – compared to the North American Industry Classification System’s most recently reported aggregate rate of 0.60.
While our BeyondZero journey started with safety, as we continued to drive our injury rates down, we also expanded our thinking to our broader culture of caring and particularly mental health. It was this strong foundation that helped us act swiftly at the start of the COVID-19 pandemic. The foundation elements of our existing “Mental Health Matters” program enabled us to respond quickly to launch our “Mental Health Matters Resiliency” program and to promote our suicide awareness campaign in fiscal 2020.
In fiscal 2020, almost 2,000 Positive Mental Health Champions (an 11% increase from fiscal 2019) trained to support the mental wellbeing of our employees and one in every 29 employees trained as a Positive Mental Health Champion. In addition, 100% of Jacobs’ Executive Leadership Team participated in Positive Mental Health training.
Information About Our Executive Officers
The information required by Paragraph (a), and Paragraphs (c) through (g) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K (except for information required by Paragraph (e) of that Item to the extent the required information pertains to our executive officers) and Item 405 of Regulation S-K is set forth under the captions “Members of the Board of Directors” and “Delinquent Section 16(a) Reports” in our definitive proxy statement to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year and is incorporated herein by reference.
Page 25

The following table presents the information required by Paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.
																				
Name	 	Age	 	Position with the Company	 	Year Joined the Company
Steven J. Demetriou	 	62 		 	Chair and Chief Executive Officer	 	2015
Kevin C. Berryman	 	61 		 	President and Chief Financial Officer	 	2014
Robert V. Pragada		52 			President and Chief Operating Officer		2016
Dawne S. Hickton	 	63 		 	Executive Vice President and COO Critical Mission Solutions	 	2019
Joanne E. Caruso		60 			Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer		2012
William B. Allen, Jr. 	 	56 		 	Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer	 	2016
Michael R. Tyler	 	64 		 	Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer	 	2013
All of the officers listed in the preceding table serve in their respective capacities at the pleasure of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Mr. Demetriou joined the Company in August 2015. Mr. Demetriou served as Chairman and CEO of Aleris Corporation for 14 years, a global downstream aluminum producer based in Cleveland, Ohio. Over the course of his career, he has gained broad experience with companies in a range of industries including metals, specialty chemicals, oil & gas, manufacturing and fertilizers.
Mr. Berryman joined the Company in December 2014. Mr. Berryman served as EVP and CFO for five years at International Flavors and Fragrances Inc., an S&P 500 company and leading global creator of flavors and fragrances used in a wide variety of consumer products. Prior to that, he spent 25 years at Nestlé in a number of finance roles including treasury, mergers & acquisitions, strategic planning and control.
Mr. Pragada rejoined the Company in February 2016 after serving as President and Chief Executive Officer of The Brock Group since August 2014. From March 2006 to August 2014 Mr. Pragada served in executive and senior leadership capacities with the Company.
Ms. Hickton joined the Company as Chief Operating Officer and President of Critical Mission Solutions in 2019. Prior to this role, Ms. Hickton served as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company and was previously the Vice Chair and Chief Executive Officer for eight years at RTI International Metals, Inc., a global supplier of advanced titanium products and services in commercial aerospace, defense, propulsion, medical device and energy markets.
Ms. Caruso joined the Company in 2012. Prior to becoming Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer, Ms. Caruso was Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer, and previously held the positions of Senior Vice President, Global Human Resources and Vice President, Global Litigation. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Caruso was a partner in two international law firms, Howrey LLP and Baker & Hostetler LLP.
Mr. Allen joined the Company in October 2016. Mr. Allen served as Vice President, Finance and Principal Accounting Officer at Lyondellbasell Industries, N.V. from 2013 to 2016. Prior to that, he was with Albemarle Corporation, where he served as Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer from 2009 to 2013 after serving in CFO roles for their Catalysts and Fine Chemistry businesses from 2005 to 2009.
Mr. Tyler joined the Company in June 2013. He previously served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Sanmina Corporation, a global electronics manufacturing services provider from April 2007 to June 2013, and Chief Legal and Administrative Officer of Gateway, Inc., a computer hardware company, from January 2004 to April 2007.
Page 26

Additional Information
Jacobs was founded in 1947 and incorporated as a Delaware corporation in 1987. We are headquartered in Dallas, Texas, USA. You may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. In order to obtain information about the operation of the Public Reference Room, a person may call the SEC at 1-800-732-0330. The SEC also maintains a site on the Internet that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s website is http://www.sec.gov. You may also read and download the various reports we file with, or furnish to, the SEC free of charge from our website at www.jacobs.com.
