Overview
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“JPMorgan Chase” or the “Firm”, NYSE: JPM), a financial holding company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968, is a leading financial services firm based in the United States of America (“U.S.”), and has operations worldwide; JPMorgan Chase had $3.4 trillion in assets and $279.4 billion in stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2020. The Firm is a leader in investment banking, financial services for consumers and small businesses, commercial banking, financial transaction processing and asset management. Under the J.P. Morgan and Chase brands, the Firm serves millions of customers in the U.S. and many of the world’s most prominent corporate, institutional and government clients.
JPMorgan Chase’s principal bank subsidiary is JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (“JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.”), a national banking association with U.S. branches in 38 states and Washington, D.C. as of December 31, 2020. JPMorgan Chase’s principal non-bank subsidiary is J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (“J.P. Morgan Securities”), a U.S. broker-dealer. The bank and non-bank subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase operate nationally as well as through overseas branches and subsidiaries, representative offices and subsidiary foreign banks. The Firm’s principal operating subsidiary outside the U.S. is J.P. Morgan Securities plc, a U.K.-based subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
The Firm’s website is www.jpmorganchase.com. JPMorgan Chase makes available on its website, free of charge, annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files or furnishes such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) at www.sec.gov. JPMorgan Chase also makes additional information about the Firm available on the Investor Relations section of its website at https://www.jpmorganchase.com/corporate/investor-relations/investor-relations.htm. The Firm has adopted, and posted on its website, a Code of Conduct for all employees of the Firm and a Code of Ethics for its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Principal Accounting Officer and all other professionals of the Firm worldwide serving in a finance, accounting, treasury, tax or investor relations role.







Business segments
For management reporting purposes, JPMorgan Chase’s activities are organized into four major reportable business segments, as well as a Corporate segment. The Firm’s consumer business is the Consumer & Community Banking (“CCB”) segment. The Firm’s wholesale business segments are the Corporate & Investment Bank (“CIB”), Commercial Banking (“CB”), and Asset & Wealth Management (“AWM”).
A description of the Firm’s business segments and the products and services they provide to their respective client bases is provided in the “Business segment results” section of Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (“Management’s discussion and analysis” or “MD&A”), beginning on page 46 and in Note 32.
Competition
JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries and affiliates operate in highly competitive environments. Competitors include other banks, brokerage firms, investment banking companies, merchant banks, hedge funds, commodity trading companies, private equity firms, insurance companies, mutual fund companies, investment managers, credit card companies, mortgage banking companies, trust companies, securities processing companies, automobile financing companies, leasing companies, e-commerce and other internet-based companies, financial technology companies, and other companies engaged in providing similar products and services. The Firm’s businesses generally compete on the basis of the quality and variety of the Firm’s products and services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation and price. Competition also varies based on the types of clients, customers, industries and geographies served. With respect to some of its geographies and products, JPMorgan Chase competes globally; with respect to others, the Firm competes on a national or regional basis. New competitors in the financial services industry continue to emerge, including firms that offer products and services solely through the internet and non-financial companies that offer payment or loan products.










								
		
1
Part I
Human capital
JPMorgan Chase believes that its long-term growth and success depend on its ability to attract, develop and retain a high-performing and diverse workforce, with inclusion and accessibility as key components of the way the Firm does business. The information provided below relates to JPMorgan Chase’s full-time and part-time employees and does not include the Firm’s contractors.
Global workforce
JPMorgan Chase had 255,351 employees in 62 countries as of December 31, 2020, with over 60% of those employees located in the U.S. As of December 31, 2020, of the Firm’s global employees that self-identified, 49% self-identified as women and of the Firm’s U.S.-based employees that self-identified, 52% self-identified as ethnically diverse (defined as all Equal Employment Opportunity Commission classifications other than white). In addition, of the Firm’s U.S.-based employees, 3% self-identified as LGBT+, 3% as military veterans and 4% as people with disabilities. The following table presents the distribution of the Firm’s global workforce by region and by LOB as of December 31, 2020:
														
Employee Breakdown by Region		Employee Breakdown by LOB
Region	Employees		LOB	Employees
North America	162,670		CCB	122,894
Europe/Middle East/Africa	22,346		CIB	61,733
Latin America/Caribbean	3,691		CB	11,675
Asia-Pacific	66,644		AWM	20,683
Total Firm	255,351		Corporate	38,366
			Total Firm	255,351
Firm culture
The foundations of JPMorgan Chase’s culture are its core values and How We Do Business Principles, which are fundamental to the Firm’s success and are represented by four central corporate tenets: exceptional client service; operational excellence; a commitment to integrity, fairness and responsibility; and cultivation of a great team and winning culture. The Firm maintains its focus on its culture of inclusion and respect, which is reinforced by increasing employee awareness and education through engagement, communication and training. An important part of these efforts includes the Firm’s Business Resource Groups, which are groups of employees who support JPMorgan Chase’s diversity and inclusion strategies by leveraging the unique perspectives of their members.
Attracting and retaining employees
The goal of JPMorgan Chase’s recruitment efforts is to attract and hire talented individuals in all roles and at all career levels. The Firm strives to provide both external candidates and internal employees who are seeking a different role with challenging and stimulating career opportunities. These opportunities range from internship training programs for students to entry-level, management and executive careers. During 2020, approximately two thirds of the Firm’s employment opportunities were filled by external candidates, with the remainder filled by existing employees.
Diversity is a critical area of focus throughout the Firm’s hiring process. JPMorgan Chase engages in efforts aimed at hiring diverse talent, including initiatives focused on gender, underrepresented ethnic groups, LGBT+ individuals, people with disabilities, veterans and others. The Firm’s Advancing Black Pathways program, which seeks to leverage JPMorgan Chase’s business and philanthropic
resources to accelerate economic opportunity for Black Americans by strengthening education and job training, growing careers, investing in entrepreneurship, and building wealth, includes initiatives to increase representation of talented Black individuals across the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase offers a competitive fellowship program that seeks to attract accomplished individuals who have taken a career break and wish to return to the workforce. In addition, where appropriate, the Firm’s hiring practices focus on the skills of a job candidate rather than degrees held.
Developing employees
JPMorgan Chase is committed to supporting the professional development and career growth of its employees. The Firm offers comprehensive training programs to employees, with over seven million hours of training delivered globally in 2020. Leadership Edge, the Firm’s global leadership development program that is offered to managers, is focused on creating one Firm leadership culture.
Compensation and benefits
The Firm provides comprehensive and market-competitive compensation and benefits programs. JPMorgan Chase’s compensation philosophy provides the guiding principles that drive compensation-related decisions across the Firm, including pay-for-performance, responsiveness and alignment with shareholder interests, reinforcement of the Firm’s culture and How We Do Business Principles, and integration of risk, controls and conduct considerations. The Firm’s commitment to diversity and inclusion for all employees includes compensation review processes that seek to ensure that the Firm’s employees are paid equitably for the work they do.

								
2
		

The Firm is also committed to supporting employees’ well-being. JPMorgan Chase offers a comprehensive benefits and wellness package to employees and their families, including healthcare coverage, retirement benefits, life and disability insurance, on-site health and wellness centers, employee assistance programs, competitive vacation and leave policies, backup child care arrangements, tuition reimbursement programs, mental health counseling and support, and financial coaching. The Firm has taken action to protect and support its employees during the COVID-19 pandemic, including by implementing health and safety protocols and providing additional benefits.
Supervision and regulation
The Firm is subject to extensive and comprehensive regulation under U.S. federal and state laws, as well as the applicable laws of the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Firm does business.
Financial holding company:
Consolidated supervision. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is a bank holding company (“BHC”) and a financial holding company (“FHC”) under U.S. federal law, and is subject to comprehensive consolidated supervision, regulation and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”). The Federal Reserve acts as the supervisor of the consolidated operations of BHCs, and certain of JPMorgan Chase’s subsidiaries are also regulated directly by additional authorities based on the activities or licenses of those subsidiaries.
JPMorgan Chase’s national bank subsidiary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., is supervised and regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) and, with respect to certain matters, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”).
JPMorgan Chase’s U.S. broker-dealers are supervised and regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), and subsidiaries of the Firm that engage in certain futures-related and swaps-related activities are supervised and regulated by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). J.P. Morgan Securities plc is a U.K.-based bank regulated by the U.K. Prudential Regulation Authority (the “PRA”) and the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”).
The Firm’s other non-U.S. subsidiaries are regulated by the banking, securities, prudential and conduct regulatory authorities in the countries in which they operate.
Permissible business activities. The Bank Holding Company Act restricts BHCs from engaging in business activities other than the business of banking and certain closely-related activities. FHCs can engage in a broader range of financial activities. The Federal Reserve has the authority to limit an FHC’s ability to conduct otherwise permissible activities if the FHC or any of its depository institution subsidiaries ceases to meet applicable eligibility requirements. The
Federal Reserve may also impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the FHC, and if deficiencies are persistent, may require divestiture of the FHC’s depository institutions. If any depository institution controlled by an FHC fails to maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act, the Federal Reserve must prohibit the FHC and its subsidiaries from engaging in any activities other than those permissible for BHCs.
Capital and liquidity requirements. The Federal Reserve establishes capital, liquidity and leverage requirements for JPMorgan Chase that are generally consistent with the international Basel III capital and liquidity framework and evaluates the Firm’s compliance with those requirements. The OCC establishes similar requirements for JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Banking supervisors globally continue to refine and enhance the Basel III capital framework for financial institutions. In January 2019, the Basel Committee issued “Minimum capital requirements for market risk.” The Basel Committee expects national regulators to implement these revised market risk requirements for banking organizations in their jurisdictions by January 2023, in line with the other elements of the Basel III Reforms. U.S. banking regulators have announced their support for the issuance of the Basel III Reforms and are considering how to appropriately apply such reforms in the U.S. In November 2019, the U.S. banking regulators adopted a rule implementing “Standardized Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk” (“SA-CCR”), which became effective in April 2020 and which has a mandatory compliance date of January 1, 2022.
On October 20, 2020, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule for the net stable funding ratio (“NSFR”) under which large banking organizations such as the Firm will be required to maintain an NSFR of at least 100% on an ongoing basis. The final NSFR rule will become effective on July 1, 2021.   
Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 91-101 and Liquidity Risk Management on pages 102–108 .
Stress tests. As a large BHC, JPMorgan Chase is subject to supervisory stress testing administered by the Federal Reserve as part of the Federal Reserve’s annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”) framework. The Firm must conduct annual company-run stress tests and must also submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate stress tests designed by the Firm and the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve uses the results under the severely adverse scenario from its supervisory stress test to determine the Firm’s “stress capital buffer” (“SCB”) requirement for the coming year, which forms part of the Firm’s applicable capital buffers. The Firm is required to file its annual CCAR submission on April 5, 2021. The Federal Reserve will notify the Firm of its indicative SCB requirement by June 30, 2021 and final SCB requirement by August 31, 2021. The Firm’s final SCB requirement will become effective on October 1, 2021. The OCC requires
								
		
3
Part I
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to perform separate, similar stress tests annually. The Firm publishes each year the results of the annual stress tests for the Firm and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. under the supervisory “severely adverse” scenarios provided by the Federal Reserve and the OCC.
Refer to Capital Risk Management on pages 91-101 for more information concerning the Firm’s CCAR.
Enhanced prudential standards. As part of its mandate to identify and monitor risks to the financial stability of the U.S. posed by large banking organizations, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) recommends prudential standards and reporting requirements to the Federal Reserve for systemically important financial institutions (“SIFIs”), such as JPMorgan Chase. The Federal Reserve has adopted several rules to implement those heightened prudential standards, including rules relating to risk management and corporate governance of subject BHCs. JPMorgan Chase is required under these rules to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management standards, including oversight by the board of directors of risk management activities.
Resolution and recovery. The Firm is required to submit periodically to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for resolution under Title I of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) in the event of material distress or failure (a “resolution plan”). In 2019, the FDIC and Federal Reserve revised the regulations governing resolution plan requirements, and on the basis of those revisions, the Firm’s resolution plan submissions will alternate between “targeted” and “full” plans. The Firm’s next “targeted” resolution plan is due to be filed on or before July 1, 2021. The Firm also has a comprehensive recovery plan, updated annually, summarizing the actions it would take to avoid failure by remaining well-capitalized and well-funded in the case of an adverse event.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is also required to provide a resolution plan to the FDIC. The FDIC has proposed changes
to its rules relating to the resolution plans of insured depository institutions (“IDIs”) in a 2019 advanced notice of proposed rulemaking. In January 2021, the FDIC announced that the moratorium on the preparation of resolution plans for the IDIs has ended. Banks will be given notice of at least 12 months prior to the required submission date for their IDI resolution plans. The OCC has published guidelines establishing standards for recovery planning by insured national banks, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. has submitted its recovery plan to the OCC.
Certain of the Firm’s non-U.S. subsidiaries are also subject to local resolution and recovery planning requirements.
Orderly liquidation authority. Certain financial companies, including JPMorgan Chase and certain of its subsidiaries, can also be subjected to resolution under an “orderly liquidation authority.” The U.S. Treasury Secretary, in consultation with the President of the United States, must first make certain determinations concerning extraordinary
financial distress and systemic risk, and action must be recommended by the FDIC and the Federal Reserve. Absent such actions, the Firm, as a BHC, would remain subject to resolution under the Bankruptcy Code. The FDIC has issued a draft policy statement describing its “single point of entry” strategy for resolution of SIFIs under the orderly liquidation authority, which seeks to keep operating subsidiaries of a BHC open and impose losses on shareholders and creditors of the BHC in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.
Holding company as a source of strength. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is required to serve as a source of financial strength for its depository institution subsidiaries and to commit resources to support those subsidiaries, including when directed to do so by the Federal Reserve.
Regulation of acquisitions. Acquisitions by BHCs and their banks are subject to multiple requirements established by the Federal Reserve and the OCC. For example, FHCs and BHCs are required to obtain the approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more than 5% of the voting shares of an unaffiliated bank. In addition, acquisitions by financial companies are prohibited if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial company would exceed 10% of the total liabilities of all financial companies. Furthermore, for certain acquisitions, the Firm must provide written notice to the Federal Reserve prior to acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any company with over $10 billion in assets that is engaged in activities that are “financial in nature.”
Volcker Rule. The Volcker Rule prohibits banking entities, including the Firm, from engaging in certain “proprietary trading” activities, subject to exceptions for underwriting, market-making, risk-mitigating hedging and certain other activities. The Volcker Rule also limits the sponsorship of, and investment in, “covered funds,” and imposes limits on certain transactions between the Firm and covered funds for which a JPMorgan Chase entity serves as the investment manager, investment advisor, commodity trading advisor or sponsor, as well as certain covered funds controlled by such funds.
Ongoing obligations. The Firm remains subject to a consent order entered into with the Federal Reserve concerning foreign exchange trading. The Firm is also subject to obligations under the terms of a Deferred Prosecution Agreement entered into with the Department of Justice on September 29, 2020 relating to precious metals and U.S. Treasuries markets investigations as well as under a related order issued by the CFTC.
Subsidiary banks:
The activities of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the Firm’s principal subsidiary bank, are limited to those specifically authorized under the National Bank Act and related interpretations of the OCC. The OCC has authority to bring an enforcement action against JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. for unsafe or unsound banking practices, which could
								
4
		

include limiting JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.’s ability to conduct otherwise permissible activities, or imposing corrective capital or managerial requirements on the bank.
FDIC deposit insurance. The FDIC deposit insurance fund provides insurance coverage for certain deposits and is funded through assessments on banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
FDIC powers upon a bank insolvency. Upon the insolvency of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the FDIC could be appointed as conservator or receiver under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The FDIC has broad powers to transfer assets and liabilities without the approval of the institution’s creditors.
Prompt corrective action. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take “prompt corrective action” with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. The Federal Reserve is also authorized to take appropriate action against the parent BHC, such as JPMorgan Chase & Co., based on the undercapitalized status of any bank subsidiary. In certain instances, the BHC would be required to guarantee the performance of the capital restoration plan for its undercapitalized subsidiary.
OCC Heightened Standards. The OCC has established guidelines setting forth heightened standards for large banks, including minimum standards for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework for banks. Under these standards, a bank’s risk governance framework must ensure that the bank’s risk profile is easily distinguished and separate from that of its parent BHC for risk management purposes. The bank’s board or risk committee is responsible for approving the bank’s risk governance framework, providing active oversight of the bank’s risk-taking activities, and holding management accountable for adhering to the risk governance framework.
Restrictions on transactions with affiliates. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and its subsidiaries are subject to restrictions imposed by federal law on extensions of credit to, investments in stock or securities of, and derivatives, securities lending and certain other transactions with, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and certain other affiliates. These restrictions prevent JPMorgan Chase & Co. and other affiliates from borrowing from such subsidiaries unless the loans are secured in specified amounts and comply with certain other requirements.
Dividend restrictions. Federal law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national banks, such as JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Refer to Note 26 for the amount of dividends that JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. could pay, at January 1, 2021, to JPMorgan Chase without the approval of the banking regulators. The OCC and the Federal Reserve also have authority to prohibit or limit the payment of dividends of a bank subsidiary that they supervise if, in the banking regulator’s opinion, payment of a dividend would
constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the bank.
Depositor preference. Under federal law, the claims of a receiver of an IDI for administrative expense and the claims of holders of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC and deposits in non-U.S. branches that are dually payable in the U.S. and in a non-U.S. branch) have priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors of the institution, including depositors in non-U.S. branches and public noteholders.
Consumer supervision and regulation. JPMorgan Chase and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. are subject to supervision and regulation by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) with respect to federal consumer protection laws, including laws relating to fair lending and the prohibition of unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices in connection with the offer, sale or provision of consumer financial products and services. The CFPB also has jurisdiction over small business lending activities with respect to fair lending and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act. As part of its regulatory oversight, the CFPB has authority to take enforcement actions against firms that offer certain products and services to consumers using practices that are deemed to be unfair, deceptive or abusive. The Firm’s consumer activities are also subject to regulation under state statutes which are enforced by the Attorney General or empowered agency of each state.
Securities and broker-dealer regulation:
The Firm conducts securities underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the U.S. through J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and other non-bank broker-dealer subsidiaries, all of which are subject to regulations of the SEC, FINRA and the New York Stock Exchange, among others. The Firm conducts similar securities activities outside the U.S. subject to local regulatory requirements. In the U.K., those activities are conducted by J.P. Morgan Securities plc. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of research reports, use of customer funds, the financing of client purchases, capital structure, record-keeping and retention, and the conduct of their directors, officers and employees. Refer to Broker-dealer regulatory capital on page 101 for information concerning the capital of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc.
Investment management regulation:
The Firm’s asset and wealth management businesses are subject to significant regulation in jurisdictions around the world relating to, among other things, the safeguarding and management of client assets, offerings of funds and marketing activities. Certain of the Firm’s subsidiaries are registered with, and subject to oversight by, the SEC as investment advisers and broker-dealers. The Firm’s registered investment advisers are subject to the fiduciary and other obligations imposed under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as well as various state securities laws. The Firm’s bank fiduciary activities are subject to supervision by the OCC.
								
		
5
Part I
Derivatives regulation:
The Firm is subject to comprehensive regulation of its derivatives businesses, including regulations that impose capital and margin requirements, require central clearing of standardized over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives, mandate that certain standardized OTC swaps be traded on regulated trading venues, and provide for reporting of certain mandated information. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities plc are registered with the CFTC as “swap dealers” and may be required to register with the SEC as “security-based swap dealers.” As a result, these entities are or will be subject to a comprehensive regulatory framework applicable to their swap or security-based swap activities, including capital requirements, rules requiring the collateralization of uncleared swaps and security-based swaps, rules regarding segregation of counterparty collateral, business conduct and documentation standards, record-keeping and reporting obligations, and anti-fraud and anti-manipulation requirements. Similar requirements have also been implemented in the EU under the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (“EMIR”) and MiFID II.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC is also registered with the CFTC as a futures commission merchant and is a member of the National Futures Association.
Data, privacy and security regulation:
The Firm and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state and local as well as international laws and regulations concerning data that are central to the Firm’s businesses, functions and operations. These include laws and regulations relating to data protection, privacy, data use, confidentiality, secrecy, cybersecurity, technology, artificial intelligence, data localization and storage, data retention and destruction, disclosure, transfer, availability, integrity and other similar matters. The application, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in light of new and rapidly evolving data-driven technologies and significant increase in computing power. These laws and regulations are evolving at a rapid pace, remain a focus of regulators globally, may be enforced by private parties or government bodies, and will continue to have a significant impact on all of the Firm’s businesses and operations. For example, the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) includes a complex range of obligations and operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of persons in the EU and provides for significant penalties for non-compliance. In addition, there are a number of legislative proposals in the EU, the U.S. (at both the federal and state level) as well as other jurisdictions that could impose new obligations or limitations in these areas that could affect the Firm’s businesses.
The Bank Secrecy Act and Economic Sanctions:
The Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) requires all financial institutions, including banks and securities broker-dealers, to establish a risk-based system of internal controls reasonably designed to prevent money laundering and the financing of
terrorism. The BSA includes a variety of record-keeping and reporting requirements, as well as due diligence/know-your-customer documentation requirements. The Firm is also subject to the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). In addition, the EU and the U.K. have adopted various economic sanctions programs targeted at entities or individuals that are, or are located in countries that are, involved in terrorism, hostilities, embezzlement or human rights violations.
Anti-Corruption:
The Firm is subject to laws and regulations relating to corrupt and illegal payments to government officials and others in the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act.
Compensation practices:
The Firm’s compensation practices are subject to oversight by the Federal Reserve, as well as other agencies. The Federal Reserve has issued guidance jointly with the FDIC and the OCC that is designed to ensure that incentive compensation paid by banking organizations does not encourage imprudent risk-taking that threatens the organizations’ safety and soundness. The Financial Stability Board (“FSB”) has also established standards covering compensation principles for banks. The Firm’s compensation practices are also subject to regulation and oversight by regulators in other jurisdictions, notably the EU Fourth Capital Requirements Directive (“CRD IV”), which includes compensation-related provisions. The European Banking Authority has instituted guidelines on compensation policies which in certain countries, such as the U.K. and Germany, are implemented or supplemented by local regulations or guidelines. The Firm expects that the implementation of regulatory guidelines regarding compensation in the U.S. and other countries will continue to evolve, and may affect the manner in which the Firm structures its compensation programs and practices.
Other significant international regulatory initiatives:
The U.K.’s transition period for its departure from the EU, which is commonly referred to as “Brexit,” formally ended on December 31, 2020, and accordingly, from January 1, 2021, the U.K. is no longer obligated to implement EU laws.
In preparation for the completion of Brexit, numerous EU laws and regulations were separately adopted into U.K. domestic legislation in order to ensure continuity. However, the U.K. plans to evaluate the extent to which these EU-legacy laws and regulations should change going forward and has already indicated some areas where it may take a different approach from the EU. For example, the U.K. announced it will develop a U.K. settlement discipline regime rather than adopting the EU’s settlement discipline regime which will apply in the EU beginning in February 2022. Additionally, the U.K. will not incorporate into U.K. law the reporting obligation of the EU’s Securities Financing Transactions Regulation for non-financial counterparties, which will apply in the EU beginning in January 2021. The
								
6
		

full impact of these differences is not yet known as further details have not yet been published.
In the EU, policymakers continue to implement an extensive and complex program of regulatory enhancement relating to financial services, several key elements of which are discussed below.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in July 2020, the European Commission (“EC”) published a legislative proposal amending the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (“MiFID II”). MiFID II requires the trading of shares and certain OTC derivatives to take place on trading venues, and also significantly enhanced requirements for pre- and post-trade transparency, transaction reporting and investor protection, and introduced a position limits and reporting regime for commodities. The EC’s proposal included targeted changes to the MiFID II framework intended to reduce the compliance burden on financial services firms as part of the EC’s broader initiative to assist in the EU’s economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. The proposed changes include amendments to the commodity derivatives regime, investor protection rules and rules relating to research on small and medium-sized Enterprises. The proposal is in the final stages of becoming EU law and is expected to go into effect in 2022.The EC has also begun a review of the broader MiFID II framework and is expected to publish a further legislative proposal for changes to MiFID II in 2021. The U.K. is also re-evaluating the MiFID II framework and how the U.K. version of MiFID II will apply going forward.
The EU capital and liquidity legislation for banks and investment firms implemented many of the finalized Basel III capital and liquidity standards, including in relation to the leverage ratio, market risk capital, and a net stable funding ratio. These requirements will begin to take effect from June 2021. EU legislation also includes a requirement for certain non-EU banks operating in the EU to establish an intermediate parent undertaking (“IPU”) located in the EU. The IPU rule will allow a second IPU to be established if a single IPU would conflict with “home country” bank separation rules or impede resolvability. The Firm will be required to establish a legal entity structure that complies with the EU’s IPU rule. The U.K. Government has delayed the effective date of the U.K. version of the EU’s legislation relating to changes in Basel III requirements until January 1, 2022. The Basel Committee recently finalized certain changes to the Basel III framework, including revisions to the credit risk and operational risk calculation methods. The Firm’s banking entities in the U.K. and EU will be required to comply with these changes when they are implemented in those jurisdictions.
The Prudential Regulatory Authority (“PRA”) and European Central Bank (“ECB”) have published their supervisory expectations applicable to U.K. and EU banks, respectively, for management of financial risks arising from climate change. The supervisory expectations for managing these risks address bank strategy, risk management, scenario analysis and disclosure. U.K. banking entities, including J.P. Morgan Securities plc, will be expected to align their
practices with PRA expectations by the end of 2021. J.P. Morgan Securities plc is expanding its risk management framework to comply with PRA expectations by the end of 2021.
								
		
7
Part I
