Kimberly-Clark Corporation was incorporated in Delaware in 1928. We are a global company focused on leading the world in essentials for a better life through product innovation and building our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional brands. We are principally engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of a wide range of products mostly made from natural or synthetic fibers using advanced technologies in fibers, nonwovens and absorbency. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms "Corporation," "Kimberly-Clark," "K-C," "we," "our" and "us" refer to Kimberly-Clark Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Dollar amounts are reported in millions, except per share dollar amounts, unless otherwise noted.
Description of Kimberly-Clark
We are organized into operating segments based on product groupings. These operating segments have been aggregated into three reportable global business segments as follows:
•Personal Care brands offer our consumers a trusted partner in caring for themselves and their families by delivering confidence, protection and discretion through a wide variety of innovative solutions and products such as disposable diapers, training and youth pants, swimpants, baby wipes, feminine and incontinence care products, and other related products.  Products in this segment are sold under the Huggies, Pull-Ups, Little Swimmers, GoodNites, DryNites, Sweety, Kotex, U by Kotex, Intimus, Depend, Plenitud, Softex, Poise and other brand names.
•Consumer Tissue offers a wide variety of innovative solutions and trusted brands that responsibly improve everyday living for families around the world.  Products in this segment include facial and bathroom tissue, paper towels, napkins and related products, and are sold under the Kleenex, Scott, Cottonelle, Viva, Andrex, Scottex, Neve and other brand names.
•K-C Professional partners with businesses to create Exceptional Workplaces, helping to make them healthier, safer and more productive through a range of solutions and supporting products such as wipers, tissue, towels, apparel, soaps and sanitizers. Our brands, including Kleenex, Scott, WypAll, Kimtech and KleenGuard are well known for quality and trusted to help people around the world work better.
These reportable segments were determined in accordance with how our chief operating decision maker and our executive managers develop and execute our global strategies to drive growth and profitability of our personal care, consumer tissue and K-C Professional operations. These strategies include global plans for branding and product positioning, technology, research and development programs, cost reductions including supply chain management and capacity, and capital investments for each of these businesses.
Products for household use are sold directly to supermarkets, mass merchandisers, drugstores, warehouse clubs, variety and department stores and other retail outlets, as well as through other distributors and e-commerce. Products for away-from-home use are sold through distributors, directly to manufacturing, lodging, office building, food service, and high-volume public facilities, and through e-commerce.
Net sales to Walmart Inc. as a percent of our consolidated net sales were approximately 15 percent in 2020 and 14 percent in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net sales to Walmart Inc. were primarily in the Personal Care and Consumer Tissue segments.
On October 1, 2020, we acquired Softex Indonesia, a leader in the fast-growing Indonesian personal care market, in an all-cash transaction for approximately $1.2 billion. This transaction significantly expands our presence in an important developing and emerging market and is a strong strategic fit with our core business. Softex Indonesia generated net sales of approximately $420 in 2019. We financed the transaction through a combination of short-term commercial paper, cash on hand, and the issuance of a $600 bond. See Item 8, Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for details.
Patents and Trademarks
We own various patents and trademarks registered domestically and in many foreign countries. We consider the patents and trademarks that we own and the trademarks under which we sell certain of our products to be material to our business. Consequently, we seek patent and trademark protection by all available means, including registration.

								
	
1
	
KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2020 Annual Report

Raw Materials
Cellulose fiber, in the form of kraft pulp or fiber recycled from recovered waste paper, is the primary raw material for our tissue products, and in the form of fluff pulp is a component of disposable diapers, training and youth pants, feminine pads and incontinence care products.
Polypropylene and other synthetics and chemicals are the primary raw materials for manufacturing nonwoven fabrics, which are used in disposable diapers, training and youth pants, wet wipes, feminine pads, incontinence care products, and away-from-home wipers and apparel. Superabsorbent materials are important components of disposable diapers, training and youth pants and incontinence care products.
Raw materials are purchased from third parties, and we consider the supply to be adequate to meet the needs of our businesses. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors."
Competition
We have several major competitors in most of our markets, some of which are larger and more diversified than us. The principal methods and elements of competition include brand recognition and loyalty, product innovation, quality and performance, price, and marketing and distribution capabilities. For additional discussion of the competitive environment in which we conduct our business, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors."
Foreign Market Risks
We operate and market our products globally, and our business strategy includes targeted growth in Latin America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa, with a particular emphasis in Latin America, China, Eastern Europe and ASEAN. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for a discussion of foreign market risks that may affect our financial results.
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability
Our continued commitment to doing the right thing underpins our social impact and smallest footprint ambitions. Making lives better begins with ensuring the health and safety of our customers, consumers, and employees, promoting diversity and inclusion within our business, and protecting the rights of workers across our supply chain. We also believe we can make meaningful contributions to gender equality, clean water and sanitation, climate action and responsible consumption and production. Our sustainability strategy puts our brand and innovation teams to work to create shared value by solving global challenges and is focused on addressing key sustainability impacts and opportunities throughout our value chain.
We implement this strategy by integrating sustainability objectives into our business and capital planning processes, aligning the priorities of our supply chain, brand and innovation teams, and establishing meaningful performance indicators. Our environmental priorities include reducing our use of new fossil fuel-based plastic, while enabling circular systems to recover the materials in our products and packaging; reducing our products’ forest carbon footprint, while protecting forest biodiversity and supporting forest dependent communities; reducing greenhouse gas emissions along our value chain, in line with climate science; and building resilience to water risk at our facilities and in our communities. The United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals are now accepted as the best shared definition of what needs to be done over the next decade, and we have aligned our goals with that framework.
Regulatory Compliance
We are subject to many laws and regulations across all the countries in which we do business, and we are particularly impacted by those relating to product safety, environmental protection and data privacy and protection.
We are obligated to comply with regulations that cover product safety, efficacy, manufacturing, advertising, labeling and safety reporting. These include requirements that we provide a label that highlights perceived concerns about a product or warns consumers of risks of using our products. In some cases, it may be necessary to initiate product recalls if safety risks are considered to exist. All our facilities and other operations are subject to various environmental protection statutes and regulations, including those relating to the use of water resources and the discharge of wastewater. We are also subject to various laws and regulations related to data privacy and protection, including the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which became effective on January 1, 2020.
Our policy is to abide by all applicable laws and regulations, and we have internal programs in place to manage global compliance with these various requirements. We monitor each of these areas for new or changed regulatory requirements,

								
	
2
	
KIMBERLY-CLARK CORPORATION - 2020 Annual Report

particularly in the rapidly evolving area of data privacy and protection. We have made, and plan to continue making, necessary expenditures for compliance with applicable laws and regulations; however, total capital expenditures and operating expenses related to compliance are not expected to have a material effect on our total capital and operating expenditures, consolidated earnings or competitive position.
Employees
We had approximately 46,000 employees as of December 31, 2020 in our consolidated operations. Approximately 30 percent of our employees were located in North America and the remainder were in more than 65 countries outside of North America. Overall, approximately 60 percent of our workforce was directly involved in manufacturing and distribution operations. We are committed to workforce diversity and inclusion and continue to make progress on goals for women in senior roles globally and ethnic minorities in senior roles in the United States.
Available Information
We make financial information, news releases and other information available on our corporate website at www.kimberly-clark.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on this website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file these reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained on or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this or any other report filed with the SEC. Stockholders may also contact Stockholder Services, P.O. Box 612606, Dallas, Texas 75261-2606 or call 972-281-5317 to obtain a hard copy of these reports without charge.
