BUSINESS OVERVIEW

CarMax Background
CarMax, Inc. delivers an unrivaled customer experience by offering a broad selection of quality used vehicles and related products and services at competitive, no-haggle prices.  We are the nation’s largest retailer of used cars, and we sold 832,640 used vehicles at retail during the fiscal year ended February 29, 2020.  We are also one of the nation’s largest operators of wholesale vehicle auctions, with 466,177 vehicles sold during fiscal 2020, and one of the nation’s largest providers of used vehicle financing, servicing approximately 1,036,000 customer accounts in our $13.62 billion portfolio of managed receivables as of February 29, 2020.
By the end of fiscal 2020, more than 60% of customers had access to our omni-channel experience, which provides them the option to buy or sell a car on their terms—from home, in-store or in a seamless combination of online and in-store experiences. Our omni-channel experience provides multiple options for customers to interact with us throughout their car buying journey including our mobile apps; carmax.com; over the phone or online with a centralized customer experience consultant; or, in-person at one of our attractive, modern sales facilities. Through these new capabilities, a customer can also have a car or test drive delivered right to their home or enjoy express, or curbside, pick up of their vehicle at the store closest to them.
CarMax was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1996.  CarMax, Inc. is a holding company and our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries.  Under the ownership of Circuit City Stores, Inc. (“Circuit City”), we began operations in 1993 with the opening of our first CarMax store in Richmond, Virginia.  On October 1, 2002, the CarMax business was separated from Circuit City through a tax-free transaction, becoming an independent, publicly traded company.  As of February 29, 2020, we operated 216 used car stores in 106 U.S. television markets.  Our home office is located at 12800 Tuckahoe Creek Parkway, Richmond, Virginia.
Impact of COVID-19
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a global pandemic, and, in the following weeks, many U.S. states and localities issued lockdown orders impacting the operations of our stores and consumer demand. Since then, the COVID-19 situation within the U.S. has rapidly escalated and approximately half of our stores have been closed or have run under limited operations. Based upon the fluidity of the current environment, we expect that stores will continue to re-open or close in accordance with government mandates or public health concerns. Consumer demand has deteriorated, and sales have dropped significantly; most of our stores that remain open are selling 50% or less of what they sold last year, a trend that continued into April 2020. In April 2020, we announced approximately 15,500 associates have been placed on furlough, effective April 18, 2020. The majority of furloughed associates are employed at stores that are currently closed due to government mandates. We have taken other measures, subsequent to the end of our fiscal year, to enhance our liquidity position and provide additional financial flexibility, including drawing down additional funds on our revolving credit facility, halting our stock repurchase program, pausing our store expansion strategy and remodels and actively aligning operating expenses to the current state of the business. We continue to monitor the situation closely and it is possible that we will implement further measures.
We had intended to complete our omni-channel rollout in fiscal 2021, but in light of the evolving COVID-19 outbreak, we have pivoted to focus on rolling out the most pertinent parts of the experience, such as online self-progression and curbside or express pick up, as quickly and broadly as possible in our remaining markets given current customer needs.
CarMax Business
We operate in two reportable segments:  CarMax Sales Operations and CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”).  Our CarMax Sales Operations segment consists of all aspects of our auto merchandising and service operations, excluding financing provided by CAF.  Our CAF segment consists solely of our own finance operation that provides financing to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax.
CarMax Sales Operations.  Our CarMax Sales Operations segment sells used vehicles, purchases used vehicles from customers and other sources, sells related products and services, and arranges financing options for customers, all for fixed, no-haggle prices. We enable our customers to separately evaluate each component of the sales process based on comprehensive information about the terms and associated prices of each component. Customers can accept or decline any individual element of the offer without affecting the price or terms of any other component of the offer.
Purchasing a Vehicle: 
The vehicle purchase process at CarMax differs fundamentally from the traditional auto retail experience.  Our no-haggle pricing removes a frequent customer frustration with the purchase process and allows customers to shop for vehicles the same way they

5


shop for other consumer products.  Our new omni-channel experience further empowers our customers to buy a car on their own terms, either completely from home, in-store, or in a combination of online and in-store experiences.
Our new omni-channel experience provides multiple ways for our customers to interact with us. A customer may interact with our customer experience consultants when communicating with us via phone or text messages. These employees are paid a fixed hourly rate and receive incentive bonuses based on their ability to effectively progress the customer through their car buying journey. Customers may also interact in-person with our sales consultants who are generally paid commissions on a fixed dollars-per-unit standard, thereby earning the same commission regardless of the vehicle being sold, the amount a customer finances or the related interest rate. These pay structures align our associates’ interests with those of our customers, in contrast to other dealerships where sales and finance personnel may receive higher commissions for negotiating higher prices and interest rates, or steering customers to vehicles with higher gross profits.
We recondition every used vehicle we retail to meet our CarMax Quality Certified standards, and each vehicle must pass an inspection before being offered for sale.  We stand behind every used vehicle we sell with a 7-day, money-back guarantee and a 90-day/4,000-mile limited warranty. Our CarMax Quality Certified standards were developed internally by CarMax and are not affiliated with any third party or original equipment manufacturer program.
We maximize customer choice by offering a large selection of inventory on our lots and by making our nationwide inventory of approximately 80,000 retail vehicles as of February 29, 2020, available for viewing on carmax.com, as well as our mobile apps.  Upon request by a customer, we will transfer virtually any used vehicle in our inventory.  This gives CarMax customers access to a much larger selection of vehicles than any traditional auto retailer.  In fiscal 2020, approximately 34% of our vehicles sold were transferred at customer request.
In addition to retailing used vehicles, we sell new vehicles at two locations under franchise agreements.
Selling us a Vehicle:
We have separated the practice of trading in a used vehicle in conjunction with the purchase of another vehicle into two distinct and independent transactions.  We will appraise a customer’s vehicle free of charge and make a written, guaranteed offer to buy that vehicle regardless of whether the owner is purchasing a vehicle from us.  This no-haggle offer is good for seven days. 
Based on age, mileage or condition, fewer than half of the vehicles acquired through our appraisal process meet our retail standards.  Those vehicles that do not meet our retail standards are sold to licensed dealers through our wholesale auctions.  Unlike many other auto auctions, we own all the vehicles that we sell in our auctions, which allows us to maintain a high auction sales rate. This high sales rate, combined with dealer-friendly practices, makes our auctions an attractive source of vehicles for licensed dealers.  As of February 29, 2020, we conducted wholesale auctions at 74 of our 216 stores with an average auction sales rate of approximately 95%.
Financing a Vehicle:
The availability of on-the-spot financing is a critical component of the vehicle purchase process, and having an array of finance sources increases approvals, expands finance opportunities for our customers and mitigates risk to CarMax.  Our finance program provides access to credit for customers across a wide range of the credit spectrum through both CAF and third-party providers.  We believe that our processes and systems, transparency of pricing, and vehicle quality, as well as the integrity of the information collected at the time the customer applies for credit, allow CAF and our third-party providers to make underwriting decisions in a unique and advantageous environment distinct from the traditional auto retail environment.  All finance offers, whether from CAF or our third-party providers, are backed by a 3-day payoff option, which allows customers to refinance their loan with another finance provider within three business days at no charge. 
Related Products and Services:    
We provide customers with a range of other related products and services, including extended protection plan (“EPP”) products and vehicle repair service. EPP products include extended service plans (“ESPs”) and guaranteed asset protection (“GAP”), which is designed to cover the unpaid balance on an auto loan in the event of a total loss of the vehicle or unrecovered theft.  Our ESP customers have access to vehicle repair service at each CarMax store and at thousands of independent and franchised service providers.  We believe that the broad scope of our ESPs helps promote customer satisfaction and loyalty, and thus increases the likelihood of repeat and referral business.  In fiscal 2020, approximately 61% of the customers who purchased a retail used vehicle also purchased an ESP and approximately 19% purchased GAP.
CarMax Auto Finance.  CAF provides financing solely to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax.  CAF allows us to manage our reliance on third-party finance providers and to leverage knowledge of our business to provide qualifying customers a competitive financing option.  CAF utilizes proprietary scoring models based upon the credit history and other credit data of the

6


customer along with CAF’s historical experience to predict the likelihood of customer repayment.  Because CAF offers financing solely to CarMax customers, our scoring models are optimized for the CarMax channel.  We believe CAF enables us to capture additional profits, cash flows and sales.  After the effect of 3-day payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed 42.5% of our retail used vehicle unit sales in fiscal 2020.
CAF also services all auto loans it originates and is responsible for providing billing statements, collecting payments, maintaining contact with delinquent customers, and arranging for the repossession of vehicles securing defaulted loans. 
Competition 
CarMax Sales Operations.  The U.S. used car marketplace is highly fragmented, and we face competition from franchised dealers, who sell both new and used vehicles; online sellers; independent used car dealers; and private parties. According to industry sources, as of December 31, 2019, there were approximately 18,000 franchised dealers in the U.S., who we consider to be our primary retail competitors, as they sell the majority of late-model used vehicles.  Competition in our industry has evolved with the adoption of online platforms and marketing tools, all of which facilitate increased competition.
Based on industry data, there were approximately 41 million used cars sold in the U.S. in calendar 2019, of which approximately 23 million were estimated to be age 0- to 10-year old vehicles.  While we are the largest retailer of used vehicles in the U.S., in calendar 2019, we estimate we sold approximately 4.7% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold in the current comparable store markets in which we operate, a 4.2% increase in these markets from approximately 4.4% in calendar 2018. Our market share is generally the highest in markets in which we have been established for many years. Entering new markets could have a dampening effect on our market share given that our initial market share in new markets is generally much lower than our average. On a nationwide basis, we estimate we sold approximately 3.5% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold in calendar year 2019.     
We believe that our principal competitive advantages in used vehicle retailing include our ability to provide a high degree of customer satisfaction with the car-buying experience by virtue of our competitive, no-haggle prices and our customer-friendly sales process; our breadth of selection of the most popular makes and models available on site and via carmax.com and our mobile apps; the quality of our vehicles; our proprietary information systems; the transparency and availability of CAF and third-party financing; the locations of our retail stores; and our commitment to evolving our car-buying experience to meet customers’ changing expectations.  We believe our omni-channel experience reinforces our competitive advantages, and we are currently pivoting to focus on rolling out the most pertinent parts of the experience as quickly and broadly as possible given current customer needs. In addition, we believe our willingness to appraise and purchase a customer’s vehicle, whether or not the customer is buying a car from us, provides a competitive sourcing advantage for retail vehicles.  Our high volume of appraisal purchases supplies not only a large portion of our retail inventory, but also provides the scale that enables us to conduct our own wholesale auctions to dispose of vehicles that do not meet our retail standards.
Our wholesale auctions compete with other automotive auction houses.  In contrast to the highly fragmented used vehicle retail market, the automotive auction market has two primary competitors: Manheim, a subsidiary of Cox Enterprises, and KAR Auction Services, Inc., which together represent an estimated 70% of the North American wholesale car auction market.  These competitors auction vehicles of all ages, while CarMax’s auctions predominantly sell older, higher mileage vehicles. In response to the impacts of COVID-19 subsequent to the end of fiscal 2020, we have been able to quickly move our wholesale auctions to an online platform. We believe our ability to move our auctions online, when necessary, provides us an additional competitive advantage.
CarMax Auto Finance.  CAF operates and is a significant participant in the auto finance sector of the consumer finance market.  This sector is primarily comprised of banks, captive finance divisions of new car manufacturers, credit unions and independent finance companies.  According to industry sources, this sector represented more than $1 trillion in outstanding receivables as of December 31, 2019.  CAF’s primary competitors are banks and credit unions that offer direct financing to customers purchasing used cars.  
We believe that CAF’s principal competitive advantage is its strategic position as the primary finance source for CarMax customers, and that CAF’s primary driver for growth is the growth in CarMax’s retail used unit sales.  We periodically test different credit offers and closely monitor acceptance rates and the effect on sales to assess market competitiveness.  We also monitor 3-day payoffs, as the percentage of customers exercising this option can be an indication of the competitiveness of our offer.
Products and Services
Retail Merchandising.  We offer customers a broad selection of makes and models of used vehicles, including domestic, imported and luxury vehicles, at competitive prices.  Our focus is vehicles that are 0 to 10 years old; these vehicles generally range in price from $11,000 to $36,000.  The mix of our used vehicle inventory by make, model and age will vary from time to time, depending on consumer preferences, seasonality and market pricing and availability.

7


Wholesale Auctions.  The typical vehicle sold at our wholesale auctions is approximately 10 years old and has more than 100,000 miles.  We provide condition disclosures on each vehicle, including those for vehicles with major mechanical issues, possible frame or flood damage, branded titles, salvage history and unknown true mileage.  Professional, licensed auctioneers conduct our auctions.  Dealers pay a fee to us based on the sales price of the vehicles they purchase.  Our auctions are generally held on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. 
 
Extended Protection Plans.  In conjunction with the sale of a vehicle, we offer customers EPP products.  We receive revenue for selling these plans on behalf of unrelated third parties, who are the primary obligors.  We have no contractual liability to customers for claims under these agreements.  The ESPs we currently offer on all used retail vehicles provide coverage up to 60 months (subject to mileage limitations).  GAP covers the customer for the term of their finance contract.  The EPPs that we sell (other than manufacturer programs on new car sales) have been designed to our specifications and are administered by the third parties through private-label arrangements.  Periodically, we may receive profit-sharing revenues based upon the performance of the ESP policies administered by third parties. As of February 29, 2020, our third-party ESP providers included Assurant, Inc., CNA National Warranty Corporation and Fidelity Warranty Services, Inc. Our third-party GAP provider as of February 29, 2020 was Safe-Guard Products International LLC.
Reconditioning and Service.  An integral part of our used car consumer offer is the reconditioning process designed to make sure every car meets our internal standards before it can become a CarMax Quality Certified vehicle.  This process includes an inspection of the engine and all major systems.  Based on this inspection, we determine the reconditioning necessary to bring the vehicle up to our internal quality standards.  Many of our stores depend upon nearby, typically larger, CarMax stores for reconditioning, which increases efficiency and reduces overhead.  We perform most routine mechanical and minor body repairs in-house; however, for some reconditioning services, including, but not limited to, services related to manufacturer’s warranties, we engage third parties specializing in those services. CarMax does not have manufacturer authorization to complete recall-related repairs, and some vehicles CarMax sells may have unrepaired safety recalls. However, safety recall information, as reported by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, is available on our website, and we review any unrepaired safety recall information with our used vehicle customers before purchase.
All CarMax used car stores provide vehicle repair service, including repairs of vehicles covered by the ESPs we sell. Additionally, we have partnered with third-party providers of auto service and repair. Through these partnerships, we can provide our customers with access to a nationwide network of trusted, quality and fair-priced service and repair locations.
Customer Credit.  We offer financing alternatives for retail customers across a wide range of the credit spectrum through CAF and arrangements with several financial institutions.  Vehicles are financed using retail installment contracts secured by the vehicle.  As of February 29, 2020, our third-party finance providers included Ally Financial, American Credit Acceptance, Capital One Auto Finance, Chase Auto Finance, Exeter Finance Corp., Santander Consumer USA, Wells Fargo Dealer Services and Westlake Financial Services.  We have no recourse liability for credit losses on retail installment contracts arranged and held by third-party providers, and we periodically test additional third-party providers.
Generally, credit applications submitted by customers to CarMax are initially reviewed by CAF using our proprietary underwriting standards. Based on that review, CAF makes financing offers designed to create a loan portfolio that meets our targeted risk profile in the aggregate.  Applications that CAF declines or approves with conditions are generally evaluated by other third-party finance providers.  Third-party providers generally either pay us or are paid a fixed, pre-negotiated fee per contract.  We refer to the providers who generally pay us a fee or to whom no fee is paid as Tier 2 providers and we refer to providers to whom we pay a fee as Tier 3 providers.  We are willing to pay a fee to Tier 3 providers because we believe their participation provides us with incremental sales by enabling customers to secure financing that they may not otherwise be able to obtain.  All fees either received or paid are pre-negotiated at a fixed amount and do not vary based on the amount financed, the interest rate, the term of the loan or the loan-to-value ratio.  CAF also provides financing for a small percentage of customers who would typically be financed by a Tier 3 provider; however, subsequent to the end of fiscal 2020, we paused our Tier 3 lending in response to the COVID-19 situation.
We do not offer financing to dealers purchasing vehicles at our wholesale auctions.  However, we have made arrangements to have third-party financing available to our auction customers.
Suppliers for Used Vehicles 
We acquire a significant percentage of our retail used vehicle inventory directly from consumers through our appraisal process, as well as through local, regional and online auctions. While in any individual period conditions may vary, over the past 5 fiscal years, 36% to 41% of our retail inventory has been acquired through our appraisal process annually. We also acquire used vehicle inventory from wholesalers, franchised and independent dealers and fleet owners, such as leasing companies and rental

8


companies.  The used vehicle inventory we acquire directly from consumers through our appraisal process helps provide an inventory of makes and models that reflects consumer preferences in each market. 
The supply of late-model used vehicles is influenced by a variety of factors, including the total number of vehicles in operation; the volume of new vehicle sales, which in turn generate used car trade-ins; and the number of used vehicles sold or remarketed through retail channels, wholesale transactions and at automotive auctions.  According to industry sources, there were approximately 280 million light vehicles in operation in the U.S. as of December 31, 2019.  During calendar year 2019, it is estimated that approximately 17 million new cars and 41 million used cars were sold at retail, many of which were accompanied by trade-ins, and more than 20 million wholesale vehicles were sold at auctions and through other channels.
Based on the large number of vehicles remarketed each year, consumer acceptance of our appraisal process, our experience and success in acquiring vehicles from auctions and other sources, and the large size of the U.S. auction market relative to our needs, we believe that sources of used vehicles will continue to be sufficient to meet our current and future needs.
Seasonality
Historically, our business has been seasonal.  Our stores typically experience their strongest traffic and sales in the spring and summer, with an increase in traffic and sales in February and March, coinciding with federal income tax refunds. Sales are typically slowest in the fall.  
Technology
We leverage a combination of cloud-based and proprietary technologies. Our teams use a “test and learn” approach to iterate and deploy new technology-enabled solutions to our associates and customers. CarMax also has been developing advanced data science and machine learning capabilities to optimize our business as well as customer experience. Our business is supported by digital and mobile technologies that provide enhanced customer experience while enabling highly integrated automation of all operating functions, including credit processing and supply chain management.  Buyers and sales consultants are equipped with mobile and centralized tools that allow them to access real-time information to better serve our customers. Our proprietary store technology provides our management with real-time information about many aspects of store operations, such as inventory management, pricing, vehicle transfers, wholesale auctions and sales consultant productivity.
Our proprietary centralized inventory management and pricing system tracks each vehicle throughout the sales process and allows us to buy the mix of makes, models, age, mileage and price points tailored to customer buying preferences at each CarMax location.  Leveraging our more than twenty-five years of experience buying and selling millions of used vehicles, our system generates recommended initial retail price points, as well as retail price markdowns for specific vehicles based on algorithms that take into account factors that include sales history, consumer interest and seasonal patterns.  We believe this systematic approach to vehicle pricing allows us to optimize inventory turns, which reduces the depreciation risk inherent in used cars and helps us to achieve our targeted gross profit dollars per unit.  Because of the pricing discipline afforded by our inventory management and pricing system, generally more than 99% of our entire used car inventory offered at retail is sold at retail.
Marketing and Advertising
Our marketing strategies are focused on developing awareness of the advantages of shopping at our stores and on carmax.com and on attracting customers who are already considering buying or selling a vehicle.  These strategies are implemented through a broad range of media types including, but not limited to, traditional broadcast, digital, search, video on demand and social.  Our website and related mobile apps received an average of 25 million monthly visits during fiscal 2020 and are marketing tools for communicating the CarMax consumer offer in detail. They are also sophisticated search engines for finding the right vehicle and sales channels for customers who prefer to conduct part of the shopping and sales process online.  Our website and mobile apps also include a variety of other customer service features, including the ability to initiate vehicle transfers, schedule appointments and apply for financing pre-approval.  Information on the thousands of cars available in our nationwide inventory is updated near real-time.  Our survey data indicates that during fiscal 2020, approximately 93% of customers who purchased a vehicle from us had first visited us online.
In 2019 we introduced a new advertising campaign - The Way It Should Be - highlighting the human element that CarMax provides to the car buying and selling experiences.
Associates
On February 29, 2020, we had a total of 27,050 full- and part-time associates, including 22,272 hourly and salaried associates and 4,778 sales associates, who predominantly worked on a commission basis.  We employ additional associates during peak selling seasons.  We believe we have created a unique corporate culture and maintain good employee relations.  No associate is subject to a collective bargaining agreement.  We focus on developing our associates and providing them with the information and resources

9


they need to offer exceptional customer service and have been recognized for the success of our efforts by a number of external organizations.
In April 2020, in response to the COVID-19 situation, we announced approximately 15,500 associates have been placed on furlough, effective April 18, 2020. The majority of furloughed associates are employed at stores that are currently closed due to government mandates.
Intellectual Property
Our brand image is a critical element of our business strategy.  We rely on trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents to protect our intellectual property.
 
Laws and Regulations
Vehicle Dealer and Other Laws and Regulations.  We operate in a highly regulated industry.  In every state in which we operate, we must obtain licenses and permits to conduct business, including dealer, service, sales and finance licenses issued by state and local regulatory authorities.  A wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the manner in which we conduct business, including advertising, sales, financing and employment practices.  These laws include consumer protection laws and privacy laws, as well as other laws and regulations applicable to motor vehicle dealers.  These laws also include federal and state wage-hour, anti-discrimination and other employment practices laws.  Our financing activities with customers are subject to federal truth-in-lending, consumer leasing, equal credit opportunity and fair credit reporting laws and regulations, as well as state and local motor vehicle finance, collection, repossession and installment finance laws. Our activities are subject to enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission and other federal and state regulators, and our financing activities are also subject to enforcement by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”).
The CFPB has supervisory authority over large nonbank auto finance companies, including CarMax’s CAF segment.  The CFPB can use this authority to conduct supervisory examinations to ensure compliance with various federal consumer protection laws. 
Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals or governmental authorities and could expose us to significant damages or other penalties, including revocation or suspension of the licenses necessary to conduct business and fines.
Additionally, we are subject to laws, regulations, and other governmental actions instituted in response to the COVID-19 outbreak. Among other things, these actions require, in many localities, the closing of stores and wholesale auctions.

Environmental Laws and Regulations.  We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations that pertain to the environment.  Our business involves the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, including motor oil, gasoline, solvents, lubricants, paints and other substances.  We are subject to compliance with regulations concerning, among other things, the operation of underground and above-ground gasoline storage tanks, gasoline dispensing equipment, above-ground oil tanks and automotive paint booths.
AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS AND OTHER INFORMATION

The following items are available free of charge on our website through the “Corporate Governance” link on our investor information home page at investors.carmax.com, shortly after we file them with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”): annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A, and any amendments to those reports.  The following documents are also available free of charge on our website: Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct, and the charters of the Audit, Nominating and Governance, and Compensation and Personnel Committees.  We publish any changes to these documents on our website.  We also promptly disclose reportable waivers of the Code of Business Conduct on our website.  The contents of our website are not, however, part of this report.

Printed copies of these documents are also available to any shareholder, without charge, upon written request to our corporate secretary at the address set forth on the cover page of this report.
