The Kroger Co. (the “Company” or “Kroger”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.  As of January 30, 2021, we are one of the largest retailers in the world based on annual sales.  We also manufacture and process some of the food for sale in our supermarkets.  We maintain a web site (www.thekrogerco.com) that includes the Kroger Fact Book and other additional information about the Company.  Kroger’s website and any reports or other information made available by Kroger through its website are not part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  We make available through our web site, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and our interactive data files, including amendments.  These forms are available as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed them with, or furnished them electronically to, the SEC.

Our revenues are predominately earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in our stores, fuel centers and via our online platforms. We earn income predominantly by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs to make these products available to our customers.  Such costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs and overhead expenses.  Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31.  All references to 2020, 2019 and 2018 are to the fiscal years ended January 30, 2021, February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively, unless specifically indicated otherwise.

STORES

As of January 30, 2021, Kroger operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,742 supermarkets under a variety of local banner names, of which 2,255 had pharmacies and 1,596 had fuel centers.  We offer Pickup (also referred to as ClickList®) and Harris Teeter ExpressLane™— personalized, order online, pick up at the store services — at 2,223 of our supermarkets and provide home delivery service to substantially all of Kroger households. Approximately 51% of our supermarkets were operated in Company-owned facilities, including some Company-owned buildings on leased land.  Our stores operate under a variety of banners that have strong local ties and brand recognition. Fuel sales are an important part of our revenue, net earnings and loyalty offering.  Our fuel strategy is to include a fuel center at each of our supermarket locations when it is feasible and it is expected to be profitable.  Each fuel center typically includes 5 to 10 islands of fuel dispensers and storage tanks with capacity for 40,000 to 50,000 gallons of fuel.  Supermarkets are generally operated under one of the following formats: combination food and drug stores (“combo stores”); multi-department stores; marketplace stores; or price impact warehouses.

The combo store is the primary food store format.  They typically draw customers from a 2-2.5 mile radius.  We believe this format is successful because the stores are large enough to offer the specialty departments that customers desire for one-stop shopping, including natural food and organic sections, pharmacies, general merchandise, pet centers and high-quality perishables such as fresh seafood and organic produce.

Multi-department stores are significantly larger in size than combo stores.  In addition to the departments offered at a typical combo store, multi-department stores sell a wide selection of general merchandise items such as apparel, home fashion and furnishings, outdoor living, electronics, automotive products and toys.

Marketplace stores are smaller in size than multi-department stores.  They offer full-service grocery, pharmacy and health and beauty care departments as well as an expanded perishable offering and general merchandise area that includes apparel, home goods and toys.

3

Price impact warehouse stores offer a “no-frills, low cost” warehouse format and feature everyday low prices plus promotions for a wide selection of grocery and health and beauty care items. Quality meat, dairy, baked goods and fresh produce items provide a competitive advantage. The average size of a price impact warehouse store is similar to that of a combo store.

SEGMENTS

We operate supermarkets and multi-department stores throughout the United States.  Our retail operations, which represent 97% of our consolidated sales, is our only reportable segment.  We aggregate our operating divisions into one reportable segment due to the operating divisions having similar economic characteristics with similar long-term financial performance.  In addition, our operating divisions offer customers similar products, have similar distribution methods, operate in similar regulatory environments, purchase the majority of the merchandise for retail sale from similar (and in many cases identical) vendors on a coordinated basis from a centralized location, serve similar types of customers, and are allocated capital from a centralized location.  Our operating divisions are organized primarily on a geographical basis so that the operating division management team can be responsive to local needs of the operating division and can execute company strategic plans and initiatives throughout the locations in their operating division. This geographical separation is the primary differentiation between these retail operating divisions.  The geographical basis of organization reflects how the business is managed and how our Chief Executive Officer, who acts as our chief operating decision maker, assesses performance internally.  All of our operations are domestic.  Revenues, profits and losses and total assets are shown in our Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 below.

MERCHANDISING AND MANUFACTURING

Our Brands products play an important role in our merchandising strategy. Our supermarkets, on average, stock over 15,000 private label items. Our Brands products are primarily produced and sold in three “tiers.” Private Selection® is one of our premium quality brands, offering customers culinary foods and ingredients that deliver amazing eating experiences. The Kroger® brand, which represents the majority of our private label items, is designed to consistently satisfy and delight customers with quality products that exceed or meet the national brand in taste and efficacy, as well as with unique and differentiated products. Big K®, Check This Out…® and Heritage Farm® are some of our value brands, designed to deliver good quality at a very affordable price.  In addition to our three “tiers,” Our Brands offers customers a variety of natural and organic products with Simple Truth® and Simple Truth Organic®. Both Simple Truth and Simple Truth Organic are free from a defined list of artificial ingredients that customers have told us they do not want in their food, and the Simple Truth Organic products are USDA certified organic.

Approximately 29% of Our Brands units and 40% of the grocery category Our Brands units sold in our supermarkets are produced in our food production plants; the remaining Our Brands items are produced to our strict specifications by outside manufacturers.  We perform a “make or buy” analysis on Our Brands products and decisions are based upon a comparison of market-based transfer prices versus open market purchases.  As of January 30, 2021, we operated 35 food production plants. These plants consisted of 16 dairies, 9 deli or bakery plants, five grocery product plants, two beverage plants, one meat plant and two cheese plants.

SEASONALITY

The majority of our revenues are generally not seasonal in nature.  However, revenues tend to be higher during the major holidays throughout the year.  Additionally, certain significant events including inclement weather systems, particularly winter storms, tend to affect our sales trends.

HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

Our People

We want Kroger to be a place our customers love to shop and associates love to work. This is why we create working environments where associates feel encouraged and supported to be their best selves every day.  As of January 30, 2021, Kroger employed approximately 465,000 full- and part-time employees. With these nearly half a million associates serving more than nine million customers every day, our people are essential to our success, and we focus intentionally on attracting, developing and engaging a diverse workforce that represents the communities we serve. We have long been guided by our core values – Honesty, Integrity, Respect, Safety, Diversity and Inclusion.

4

Attracting & Developing Our Talent

We recognize that our people are our most important asset. To deliver on our customers’ experiences, we continually improve how we attract and retain talent. In addition to competitive wages, quality benefits, and a safe work environment, we offer a broad range of employment opportunities for workers of all ages and aspirations.  During the past decade, Kroger has added 100,000 new jobs in communities across America. Many supermarket roles offer opportunities to learn new skills, grow and advance careers — inside or outside our family of companies. 

Associates at all levels of the Company have access to training and education programs to build their skills and prepare for the roles they want. In 2021, we expect to spend approximately $125 million on training our associates through onboarding, leadership development programs, and programs designed to upskill associates across the Company. We continue to invest in new platforms and applications to make learning more accessible to our associates.

Beyond our own programs, associates can take advantage of our tuition reimbursement benefit, which offers up to $3,500 annually — $21,000 over the course of employment — toward continuing education. These funds can be applied to education programs like certifications, associate or graduate degrees. Kroger has invested more than $15 million in this program since it launched in 2018.  

Rewarding Our Associates

We care about our associates’ overall well-being — physical, financial and emotional — and provide wages and benefits that help associates take care of themselves and their families. Between 2018 and 2020, we invested an incremental $800 million in associate wages.  Since 2018, Kroger’s average retail hourly wage increased to over $15 per hour. Including benefit equivalents, the average rate surpasses $20 per hour.

Promoting Diversity, Equity & Inclusion

Diversity and inclusion have been among Kroger’s values for decades. We strive to reflect the communities we serve and foster a culture that empowers everyone to be their true self, inspires collaboration, and feeds the human spirit.  During the past year, we have taken a very thoughtful and purposeful approach to enact meaningful change and develop what we believe are the right actions to achieve true and lasting equality. Our new Framework for Action: Diversity, Equity & Inclusion plan reflects our desire to redefine, deepen, and advance our commitment, mobilizing our people, passion, scale and resources.  The following summarizes our framework: Create a More Inclusive Culture; Develop Diverse Talent; Advance Diverse Partnerships; Advance Equitable Communities; Deeply Listen and Report Progress.

Creating a Safe Environment

Our associates’ safety is a top priority and it is one of our core values. Since March of 2020, we have made significant investments to reward and safeguard our associates and customers. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we activated our Pandemic Preparedness Plan and Business Resilience Plan to help protect frontline associates, stay open to serve our customers and communities, and anticipate and adapt to critical needs in a rapidly changing situation. Since then, we have enacted more than 30 policy changes to help keep our associates safe, including offering paid emergency leave to those most directly affected by COVID-19, providing personal protective equipment, offering free testing through our COVID-19 at-home test kits, and promoting physical distancing in our locations. We are committed to supporting the health and well-being of our associates by providing a robust range of physical and mental health benefits and offering an incentive to associates who choose to get the COVID-19 vaccine.

Beyond the pandemic, we prioritize providing the right safety training and equipment, safe working conditions and resources to maintain and improve associates’ well-being. Through our strategy to set clear expectations, routine monitoring, and regular communication and engagement, we reduce the number of injuries and accidents that happen in our workplace.

5

We track health and safety metrics centrally for an enterprise-wide view of issues, trends and opportunities and monitor associate injury performance including total injuries, Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”) injury rates, and lost-time injuries, as well as customer injury metrics like slip-and-fall injuries. We also track the completion of required training for associates and we regularly share these metrics with leaders and relevant team members to inform management decisions.

Supporting Labor Relations

A majority of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements negotiated with local unions affiliated with one of several different international unions. There are approximately 350 such agreements, usually with terms of three to five years.  Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance on compensation packages that provide solid wages as well as good quality, affordable health care and retirement benefits while also keeping our family of companies competitive in the market.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following is a list of the names and ages of the executive officers and the positions held by each such person. Except as otherwise noted, each person has held office for at least five years.  Each officer will hold office at the discretion of the Board for the ensuing year until removed or replaced.

	
	
	
	

Name
	

    
	

Age
	

    
	

Recent Employment History

	

	

	

	

Mary E. Adcock
	

	

45 
	

	

Ms. Adcock was elected Senior Vice President effective May 1, 2019 and is responsible for retail operations as well as the oversight of several Kroger retail divisions.  From June 2016 to April 2019, she served as Group Vice President of Retail Operations.  Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Operations for Kroger’s Columbus Division from November 2015 to May 2016 and as Vice President of Merchandising for the Columbus Division from March 2014 to November 2015. From February 2012 to March 2014, Ms. Adcock served as Vice President of Natural Foods Merchandising and from October 2009 to February 2012, she served as Vice President of Deli/Bakery Manufacturing.  Prior to that, Ms. Adcock held several leadership positions in the manufacturing department, including human resources manager, general manager and division operations manager.  Ms. Adcock joined Kroger in 1999 as human resources assistant manager at the Country Oven Bakery in Bowling Green, Kentucky.

	

	

	

	

Stuart W. Aitken
	

	

49 
	

	

Mr. Aitken was named Senior Vice President and Chief Merchant and Marketing Officer in August 2020.  He was elected Senior Vice President in February 2019 and served as Group Vice President from June 2015 to February 2019.   He is responsible for sales, pricing, promotional and category planning for fresh foods, center store and general merchandise categories, as well as analytics & execution, e-commerce and Digital Merchandising, and Our Brands. Prior to joining Kroger, he served as the chief executive officer of dunnhumby USA, LLC from July 2010 to June 2015.  Mr. Aitken has over 15 years of marketing, academic and technical experience across a variety of industries, and held various leadership roles with other companies, including Michaels Stores and Safeway, Inc.

	

	

	

	

6

Gabriel Arreaga
	

	

46
	

	

Mr. Arreaga was elected Senior Vice President of Supply Chain in December 2020.  He is responsible for the company’s industry-leading Supply Chain organization, Logistics, Inventory & Replenishment, Manufacturing, and Fulfillment Centers.  Prior to Kroger, Mr. Arreaga served as senior vice president of Supply Chains for Mondelez, where he was responsible for all operations and functions from field to consumer, internal and external factories, fulfillment centers, direct to store branches, Logistics and product development.  He was also global vice president of Operations for Stanley Black and Decker and held numerous leadership roles at Unilever including vice president of Food and Beverage Operations.

	

	

	

	

Yael Cosset
	

	

47 
	

	

Mr. Cosset was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in May 2019 and is responsible for leading Kroger’s digital strategy, focused on building Kroger’s presence in the marketplace in digital channels, personalization and e-commerce.  In August 2020, he also assumed responsibility for Kroger’s alternative profit businesses, including Kroger’s data analytics subsidiary, 84.51 ͦ LLC and Kroger Personal Finance.  Prior to that, Mr. Cosset served as Group Vice President and Chief Digital Officer from January 2017 to April 2019.  Before that, he served as Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Information Officer of 84.51° LLC from April 2015 to December 2016.  Prior to joining Kroger, Mr. Cosset served in several leadership roles at dunnhumby USA, LLC from 2009 to 2015, including Executive Vice President of Consumer Markets and Global Chief Information Officer.

	

	

	

	

Michael J. Donnelly
	

	

62 
	

	

Mr. Donnelly was elected Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer in December 2017.  Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President of Merchandising from September 2015 to December 2017, and Senior Vice President of Merchandising from July 2011 to September 2015.  Before that, Mr. Donnelly held a variety of key management positions with Kroger, including President of Ralphs Grocery Company, President of Fry’s Food Stores, and Senior Vice President, Drug/GM Merchandising and Procurement. Mr. Donnelly joined Kroger in 1978 as a clerk.  Mr. Donnelly has announced his plan to retire in Spring of 2021.

	

	

	

	

Carin L. Fike
	

	

52
	

	

Ms. Fike was elected Vice President and Treasurer effective April 2017.  Prior to that, she served as Assistant Treasurer from March 2011 to April 2017.  Before that, Ms. Fike served as Director of Investor Relations from December 2003 to March 2011.  Ms. Fike began her career with Kroger in 1999 as a manager in the Financial Reporting department after working with PricewaterhouseCoopers from 1995 to 1999, where most recently she was an audit manager.

	

	

	

	

Todd A. Foley
	

	

51 
	

	

Mr. Foley was elected Vice President and Corporate Controller effective April 2017.  Before that, he served as Vice President and Treasurer from June 2013 to April 2017.  Prior to that, Mr. Foley served as Assistant Corporate Controller from March 2006 to June 2013, and Controller of Kroger’s Cincinnati/Dayton division from October 2003 to March 2006.  Mr. Foley began his career with Kroger in 2001 as an audit manager in the Internal Audit Department after working for PricewaterhouseCoopers from 1991 to 2001, where most recently he was a senior audit manager.

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	

7

Calvin J. Kaufman
	

	

58 
	

	

Mr. Kaufman was elected Senior Vice President in June 2017, and is responsible for the oversight of several Kroger retail divisions.  From July 2013 to June 2017, he served as President of the Louisville division.  Prior to that, he served as President of Kroger Manufacturing and Our Brands from June 2008 to June 2013, and Group Vice President of Fred Meyer Logistics from September 2005 to May 2008.  Mr. Kaufman held various positions in Logistics after joining Kroger in the Fred Meyer division in September 1994.

	

	

	

	

Timothy A. Massa
	

	

54 
	

	

Mr. Massa was elected Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Labor Relations in June 2018. Prior to that, he served as Group Vice President of Human Resources and Labor Relations from June 2014 to June 2018.  Mr. Massa joined Kroger in October 2010 as Vice President, Corporate Human Resources and Talent Development. Prior to joining Kroger, he served in various Human Resources leadership roles for 21 years at Procter & Gamble, most recently serving as Global Human Resources Director of Customer Business Development.

	

	

	

	

Stephen M. McKinney
	

	

64
	

	

Mr. McKinney was elected Senior Vice President in March 2018, and is responsible for the oversight of several Kroger retail divisions.  From October 2013 to March 2018, he served as President of Kroger’s Fry’s Food Stores division.  Prior to that, he served as Vice President of Operations for the Ralphs division from October 2007 to September 2013, and Vice President of Operations for the Southwest division from October 2006 to September 2007.  From 1988 to 1998, Mr. McKinney served in various leadership positions in the Fry’s Food Stores division, including store manager, deli director, and executive director of operations.  From 1981 to 1998, Mr. McKinney held several roles with Florida Choice Supermarkets, a former Kroger banner, including store manager, buyer, and field representative.   He started his career with Kroger in 1981 as a clerk with Florida Choice. 

	

	

	

	

W. Rodney McMullen
	

	

60 
	

	

Mr. McMullen was elected Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2015, and Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2014.  Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2009 to December 2013.  Prior to that he was elected Vice Chairman in June 2003, Executive Vice President, Strategy, Planning and Finance in January 2000, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in May 1999, Senior Vice President in October 1997, and Group Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in June 1995.  Before that he was appointed Vice President, Control and Financial Services in March 1993, and Vice President, Planning and Capital Management in December 1989. Mr. McMullen joined Kroger in 1978 as a part-time stock clerk.

	

	

	

	

Gary Millerchip
	

	

49 
	

	

Mr. Millerchip was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective April 2019.  Prior to this, he served as Chief Executive Officer for Kroger Personal Finance since joining Kroger in 2008.  Before coming to Kroger he was responsible for the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Personal Credit Card business in the United Kingdom.  He joined RBS in 1987 and held leadership positions in Sales & Marketing, Finance, Change Management, Retail Banking Distribution Strategy and Branch Operations during his time there.

	

	

	

	

8

Erin S. Sharp
	

	

63 
	

	

Ms. Sharp has served as Group Vice President of Manufacturing since June 2013. She joined Kroger in 2011 as Vice President of Operations for Kroger’s Manufacturing division.  Before joining Kroger, Ms. Sharp served as Vice President of Manufacturing for the Sara Lee Corporation.  In that role, she led the manufacturing and logistics operations for the central region of their U.S. Fresh Bakery Division. Ms. Sharp has over 30 years of experience supporting food manufacturing operations.  Ms. Sharp has announced her plan to retire in Spring of 2021.

	

	

	

	

Mark C. Tuffin
	

	

61 
	

	

Mr. Tuffin has served as Senior Vice President since January 2014, and is responsible for the oversight of several of Kroger’s retail divisions.  Prior to that, he served as President of Kroger’s Smith’s division from July 2011 to January 2014.  From September 2009 to July 2011, Mr. Tuffin served as Vice President of Transition, where he was responsible for implementing an organizational restructuring initiative for Kroger’s retail divisions.  He joined Kroger’s Smith’s division in 1996 and served in a series of leadership roles, including Vice President of Merchandising from September 1999 to September 2009.  Mr. Tuffin held various positions with other supermarket retailers before joining Smith’s in 1996.

	

	

	

	

Christine S. Wheatley
	

	

50 
	

	

Ms. Wheatley was elected Group Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel in May 2014.  She joined Kroger in February 2008 as Corporate Counsel, and became Senior Attorney in 2010, Senior Counsel in 2011, and Vice President in 2012. Before joining Kroger, Ms. Wheatley was engaged in the private practice of law for 11 years, most recently as a partner at Porter Wright Morris & Arthur in Cincinnati.

COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT

For the disclosure related to our competitive environment, see Item 1A under the heading “Competitive Environment.”
