Item 1. Business.

Loews Corporation was incorporated in 1969 and is a holding company. Our subsidiaries are engaged in the following lines of business:

•
	
commercial property and casualty insurance (CNA Financial Corporation, an 89.6% owned subsidiary);

•
	
transportation and storage of natural gas and natural gas liquids (Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a wholly owned subsidiary);

•
	
operation of a chain of hotels (Loews Hotels Holding Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary); and

•
	
manufacture of rigid plastic packaging solutions (Altium Packaging LLC, a 99% owned subsidiary).

We have five reportable segments comprised of three individual consolidated operating subsidiaries, CNA Financial Corporation, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP and Loews Hotels Holding Corporation; the Corporate segment; and Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc (“Diamond Offshore”). The Corporate segment is primarily comprised of Loews Corporation excluding its subsidiaries and the operations of Altium Packaging LLC. Diamond Offshore was deconsolidated during the second quarter of 2020. Each of our operating subsidiaries and Diamond Offshore are headed by a chief executive officer who is responsible for the operation of its business and has the duties and authority commensurate with that position. Additional financial information on each of our segments and the deconsolidation of Diamond Offshore is included under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”).

CNA FINANCIAL CORPORATION

CNA Financial Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “CNA”) is an insurance holding company. CNA’s property and casualty and remaining life and group insurance operations are primarily conducted by Continental Casualty Company (“CCC”), The Continental Insurance Company, Western Surety Company, CNA Insurance Company Limited, Hardy Underwriting Bermuda Limited and its subsidiaries (“Hardy”) and CNA Insurance Company (Europe) S.A. CNA accounted for 86.0%, 72.3% and 72.0% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.

CNA’s insurance products primarily include commercial property and casualty coverages, including surety. CNA’s services include warranty, risk management, information services and claims administration. CNA’s products and services are primarily marketed through independent agents, brokers and managing general underwriters to a wide variety of customers, including small, medium and large businesses, insurance companies, associations, professionals and other groups. The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive, both as it relates to rate and service. CNA competes with a large number of stock and mutual insurance companies, as well as other entities, for both distributors and customers.

5
Table of Contents


Property & Casualty Operations

CNA’s commercial property and casualty insurance operations (“Property & Casualty Operations”) includes its Specialty, Commercial and International lines of business.

Specialty

Specialty provides management and professional liability and other coverages through property and casualty products and services using a network of brokers, independent agencies and managing general underwriters. Specialty includes the following business groups:

Management & Professional Liability:  Management & Professional Liability consists of the following coverages and products:

•
	
professional liability coverages and risk management services to various professional firms, including architects, real estate agents, accounting firms and law firms;

•
	
directors and officers (“D&O”), employment practices, fiduciary and fidelity coverages. Specific areas of focus include small and mid-size firms, public as well as privately held firms and not-for-profit organizations;

•
	
insurance products to serve the health care industry, including professional and general liability as well as associated standard property and casualty coverages. Key customer groups include aging services, allied medical facilities, dentists, physicians, hospitals, nurses and other medical practitioners.

Surety:  Surety offers small, medium and large contract and commercial surety bonds. Surety provides surety and fidelity bonds in all 50 states.

Warranty and Alternative Risks:  Warranty and Alternative Risks provides extended service contracts and insurance products that provide protection from the financial burden associated with mechanical breakdown and other related losses, primarily for vehicles, portable electronic communication devices and other consumer goods. Service contracts are generally distributed by commission-based independent representatives and sold by auto dealerships and retailers in North America to customers in conjunction with the purchase of a new or used vehicle or new consumer goods. Additionally, CNA’s insurance companies may issue contractual liability insurance policies or guaranteed asset protection reimbursement insurance policies to cover the liabilities of these service contracts issued by affiliated entities or third parties.

Commercial

Commercial works with a network of brokers and independent agents to market a broad range of property and casualty insurance products to all types of insureds, targeting small business, construction, middle markets and other commercial customers. Property products include standard and excess property, marine and boiler and machinery coverages. Casualty products include standard casualty insurance products such as workers’ compensation, general and product liability, commercial auto and umbrella coverages. Most insurance programs are provided on a guaranteed cost basis; however, CNA also offers specialized loss-sensitive insurance programs and total risk management services relating to claim and information services to the large commercial insurance marketplace.

International

International underwrites property and casualty coverages on a global basis through a branch operation in Canada, a European business consisting of two insurance companies based in the United Kingdom and Luxembourg and Hardy, CNA’s Lloyd’s of London (“Lloyd’s”) syndicate.

6
Table of Contents


Property & Casualty Structure

CNA’s commercial property & casualty underwriting operations presence in the United States of America (“U.S.”) consists of field underwriting locations and centralized processing operations which handle policy processing, billing and collection activities and also act as call centers to optimize service. CNA’s claim operations presence in the U.S. consists of primary locations where it handles multiple claim types and key business functions, as well as regional claim offices which are aligned with CNA’s underwriting field structure. CNA has property & casualty underwriting operations in Canada, the United Kingdom (“U.K.”) and Continental Europe, as well as access to business placed at Lloyd’s through Syndicate 382.

Other Insurance Operations

Other Insurance Operations include CNA’s run-off long term care business as well as structured settlement obligations not funded by annuities related to certain property and casualty claimants, certain corporate expenses, including interest on CNA corporate debt, and certain property and casualty businesses in run-off, including CNA Re and A&EP.

Regulation

Current Regulation:  The insurance industry is subject to comprehensive and detailed regulation and supervision. Regulatory oversight by applicable agencies is exercised through review of submitted filings and information, examinations (both financial and market conduct), direct inquiries and interviews. Each domestic and foreign jurisdiction has established supervisory agencies with broad administrative powers relative to licensing insurers and agents, approving policy forms, establishing reserve requirements, prescribing the form and content of statutory financial reports and regulating capital adequacy and the type, quality and amount of investments permitted. Such regulatory powers also extend to premium rate regulations requiring rates not be excessive, inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. In addition to regulation of dividends by insurance subsidiaries, intercompany transfers of assets or payments may be subject to prior notice or approval by insurance regulators, depending on the size of such transfers and payments in relation to the financial position of the insurance subsidiaries making the transfers or payments.

As CNA’s insurance operations are conducted in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions, CNA is subject to a number of regulatory agency requirements applicable to a portion, or all, of CNA’s operations. These include but are not limited to, the State of Illinois Department of Insurance (which is CNA’s global group-wide supervisor), the U.K. Prudential Regulatory Authority and Financial Conduct Authority, the Office of Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, the Luxembourg insurance regulator Commissariat aux Assurances and the Bermuda Monetary Authority.

The U.S. and foreign regulatory environment in which CNA operates is evolving on an ongoing basis and impacts aspects of corporate governance, risk management practices, public disclosures and cyber security. CNA continues to invest in the security of its systems and network on an enterprise-wide basis.

Domestic insurers are also required by state insurance regulators to provide coverage to certain insureds who would not otherwise be considered eligible by the insurers. Each state dictates the types of insurance and the level of coverage that must be provided to such involuntary risks. CNA’s share of these involuntary risks is mandatory and generally a function of its respective share of the voluntary market by line of insurance in each state.

Further, domestic insurance companies are subject to state guaranty fund and other insurance-related assessments. Guaranty funds are governed by state insurance guaranty associations which levy assessments to meet the funding needs of insolvent insurer estates. Other insurance-related assessments are generally levied by state agencies to fund various organizations including disaster relief funds, rating bureaus, insurance departments, and workers’ compensation second injury funds, and by industry organizations that assist in the statistical analysis and ratemaking process and CNA has the ability to recoup certain of these assessments from policyholders.

7
Table of Contents


Although the U.S. federal government does not currently directly regulate the business of insurance, federal legislative and regulatory initiatives can affect the insurance industry. These initiatives and legislation include proposals relating to terrorism and natural catastrophe exposures, cybersecurity risk management, federal financial services reforms and certain tax reforms.

The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 (“TRIPRA”) provides for a federal government backstop for insured terrorism risks through the end of 2027. The mitigating effect of such law is part of the analysis of CNA’s overall risk posture for terrorism and, accordingly, CNA’s risk positioning may change if such law was modified.

Hardy, a specialized Lloyd’s underwriter, is also supervised by the Council of Lloyd’s, which is the franchisor for all Lloyd’s operations. The Council of Lloyd’s has wide discretionary powers to regulate Lloyd’s underwriting, such as establishing the capital requirements for syndicate participation. In addition, the annual business plan of each syndicate is subject to the review and approval of the Lloyd’s Franchise Board, which is responsible for business planning and monitoring for all syndicates.

The transition period for the U.K’s exit from the European Union (“E.U.”), commonly referred to as “Brexit,” ended on December 31, 2020. To ensure its ability to operate effectively throughout the E.U. following the departure of the U.K. from the trading bloc, effective January 1, 2019, CNA’s E.U. business is no longer written by the U.K.-domiciled subsidiary Hardy, but through a European subsidiary established in Luxembourg. As a result, the complexity and cost of regulatory compliance of CNA’s European business has increased and will likely continue to result in elevated expenses.

Capital adequacy and risk management regulations, referred to as Solvency II, apply to CNA’s European operations and are enacted by the European Commission, the executive body of the E.U. Additionally, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) continues to develop capital requirements as more fully discussed below.

Regulation Outlook:  The IAIS has adopted a Common Framework (“ComFrame”) for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (“IAIGs”) which is focused on the effective group-wide supervision of internationally active insurance groups, such as CNA. As part of ComFrame, the IAIS is developing a global insurance capital standard for insurance groups. While the general parameters of ComFrame have been finalized, many critical areas of the global insurance capital standard are still under consideration. Certain jurisdictional regulatory regimes are subject to revision in response to these global developments.

The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) has developed an approach to group capital regulation and solvency-monitoring activities using the Group Capital Calculation (“GCC”). While the current U.S. regulatory regime is based on legal entity regulation, the GCC will quantify risk across the insurance group and also provide additional financial information to regulators to assess the financial condition of non-insurance entities. The GCC was recently adopted by the NAIC along with model legislative language designed to enable the framework once implemented by state legislatures. Alongside the GCC, the NAIC is also working with other interested jurisdictions, both domestic and international, to develop an Aggregation Method (“AM”) approach to assessing group capital. The AM is influenced by the GCC and calculated in a similar manner. By 2024, the IAIS will be assessing whether the AM provides comparable outcomes to the consolidated group insurance capital standard (“ICS”) being developed for use with IAIGs.

There have also been definitive developments with respect to prudential insurance supervision unrelated to the IAIS activities. On September 22, 2017, the U.S. Treasury Department, the U.S. Trade Representative (“USTR”) and the E.U. announced they had formally signed a covered agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (“U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement”). The U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement requires U.S. states to prospectively eliminate the requirement that domestic insurance companies must obtain collateral from E.U. reinsurance companies that are not licensed in their state (alien reinsurers) in order to obtain reserve credit under statutory accounting. In exchange, the E.U. will not impose local presence requirements on U.S. firms operating in the E.U., and effectively must defer to U.S. group capital regulation for these firms. On December 18, 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department, the USTR, and the U.K. announced they formally signed the Bilateral Agreement on Prudential Measures Regarding Insurance and Reinsurance (“U.S.-U.K. Covered Agreement”). This Agreement has similar terms as the U.S.-E.U. Covered Agreement.
8
Table of Contents

Because these covered agreements are not self-executing, U.S. state laws will need to be revised to change reinsurance collateral requirements to conform to the provisions within each of the agreements. Both the reinsurance collateral requirement change and adoption of group capital regulation must be effected by the states within five years from the signing of the covered agreements, or states risk federal preemption. CNA will monitor the modification of state laws and regulations in order to comply with the provisions of the covered agreements and assess potential effects on its operations and prospects.

Properties:  CNA’s principal executive offices are based in Chicago, Illinois. CNA’s subsidiaries maintain office space in various cities throughout the United States and various countries. CNA leases all of its office space.

BOARDWALK PIPELINE PARTNERS, LP

Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (together with its subsidiaries, “Boardwalk Pipelines”) is engaged in the business of natural gas and natural gas liquids and hydrocarbons (herein referred to together as “NGLs”) transportation and storage. Boardwalk Pipelines accounted for 10.3%, 8.7% and 8.7% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.

A wholly owned subsidiary of ours, Boardwalk Pipelines Holding Corp. (“BPHC”) owns, directly and indirectly, 100% of the general partner and limited partnership interests of Boardwalk Pipelines.

Boardwalk Pipelines owns and operates approximately 13,650 miles of interconnected natural gas pipelines directly serving customers in 13 states and indirectly serving customers throughout the northeastern and southeastern U.S. through numerous interconnections with unaffiliated pipelines. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns and operates approximately 445 miles of NGL pipelines in Louisiana and Texas. In 2020, its pipeline systems transported approximately 3.2 trillion cubic feet (“Tcf”) of natural gas and approximately 80.6 million barrels (“MMBbls”) of NGLs. Average daily throughput on Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas pipeline systems during 2020 was approximately 8.6 billion cubic feet (“Bcf”). Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas storage facilities are comprised of fourteen underground storage fields located in four states with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 213.0 Bcf and Boardwalk Pipelines’ NGL storage facilities consist of 11 salt dome caverns located in Louisiana with an aggregate storage capacity of approximately 32.1 MMBbls. Boardwalk Pipelines also owns seven salt dome caverns and related brine infrastructure for use in providing brine supply services and to support the NGL storage operations.

Boardwalk Pipelines’ pipeline and storage systems are described below:

The Gulf South Pipeline Company, LLC (“Gulf South”), effective January 1, 2020, converted from a limited partnership to a limited liability company. Immediately subsequent to the conversion, Boardwalk Pipelines’ Gulf Crossing Pipeline Company LLC, operating subsidiary was merged into Gulf South. The merged pipeline system runs approximately 7,415 miles along the Gulf Coast in the states of Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 10.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 5.6 Bcf per day. Gulf South has ten natural gas storage facilities. The two natural gas storage facilities located in Louisiana and Mississippi have approximately 91.5 Bcf of working gas storage capacity and the eight salt dome natural gas storage caverns in Mississippi have approximately 46.0 Bcf of total storage capacity, of which approximately 29.6 Bcf is working gas capacity. Gulf South also owns undeveloped land which is suitable for up to five additional storage caverns.

The Texas Gas Transmission, LLC (“Texas Gas”) pipeline system, a bi-directional pipeline, runs approximately 5,970 miles and is located in Louisiana, East Texas, Arkansas, Mississippi, Tennessee, Kentucky, Indiana and Ohio with smaller diameter lines extending into Illinois. The pipeline system has a peak-day delivery capacity of 5.9 Bcf per day and average daily throughput for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 3.0 Bcf per day. Texas Gas owns nine natural gas storage fields with 84.3 Bcf of working gas storage capacity.

Boardwalk Louisiana Midstream, LLC and Boardwalk Petrochemical Pipeline, LLC (collectively “Louisiana Midstream”) provide transportation and storage services for natural gas, NGLs and ethylene, fractionation services for NGLs and brine supply services. These assets provide approximately 48.8 MMBbls of salt dome storage capacity, including approximately 7.6 Bcf of working natural gas storage capacity, significant brine supply infrastructure, and approximately 285 miles of pipeline assets. Louisiana Midstream owns and operates the Evangeline Pipeline
9
Table of Contents

(“Evangeline”), which is an approximately 175 mile interstate ethylene pipeline that is capable of transporting approximately 4.2 billion pounds of ethylene per year between Texas and Louisiana, with interconnections with its ethylene distribution system. Throughput for Louisiana Midstream was 80.6 MMBbls for the year ended December 31, 2020.

Boardwalk Texas Intrastate, LLC (“Texas Intrastate”) provides intrastate natural gas transportation services on approximately 250 miles of pipeline located in South Texas. Texas Intrastate is situated to provide access to industrial and power generation markets as well as liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) export markets and third-party pipelines for exports to Mexico.

In 2020, Boardwalk Pipelines placed into service approximately $335 million of growth projects which represents approximately 1.5 Bcf per day of firm natural gas transportation capacity and additional NGL infrastructure as well as expanding natural gas storage capacity at facilities in Mississippi. Collectively, these projects were completed on-time and within budget. Boardwalk Pipelines expects to spend approximately $380 million on its growth projects currently under construction through 2024. Those projects are expected to serve increased natural gas demand from a power generation plant and liquids demand from petrochemical facilities. All of Boardwalk Pipelines’ growth projects are secured by long-term firm contracts.

Customers:  Boardwalk Pipelines serves a broad mix of customers, including end-use customers, such as local distribution companies, electric power generators, exporters of LNG and industrial users, producers and marketers of natural gas, and interstate and intrastate pipelines, who, in turn, provide transportation and storage services for end-users. These customers are located throughout the Gulf Coast, Midwest and Northeast regions of the U.S. Boardwalk Pipelines’ delivery market has diversified over time, with increased deliveries to end-use customers, whereas, historically its delivery markets were primarily to other pipelines who then delivered to end-use customers.

Governmental Regulation:  The FERC regulates Boardwalk Pipelines’ interstate natural gas transmission operating subsidiaries under the Natural Gas Act of 1938 (“NGA”) and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 (“NGPA”). The FERC regulates, among other things, the rates and charges for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce and the construction, extension, enlargement or abandonment of facilities under its jurisdiction. Where required, Boardwalk Pipelines’ natural gas pipeline subsidiaries hold certificates of public convenience and necessity issued by the FERC covering certain of their facilities, activities and services. The maximum rates that Boardwalk Pipelines’ FERC-regulated subsidiaries may charge for all aspects of the natural gas transportation services they provide, are established through the FERC’s cost-based rate-making process. Key determinants in the FERC’s cost-based rate-making process are the costs of providing service, the volumes of gas being transported, the rate design, the allocation of costs between services, the capital structure and the rate of return a pipeline is permitted to earn. The maximum rates that may be charged by Boardwalk Pipelines for storage services on Texas Gas, except for services associated with a portion of the working gas capacity on that system, are also established through the FERC’s cost-based rate-making process. The FERC has authorized Boardwalk Pipelines to charge market-based rates for its firm and interruptible storage services for the majority of its other natural gas storage facilities. None of Boardwalk Pipelines’ FERC-regulated entities currently have an obligation to file a new rate case and Gulf South is prohibited from filing a rate case until May 1, 2023, subject to certain exceptions. Boardwalk Texas Intrastate transports natural gas in intrastate commerce under the rules and regulations established by the Texas Railroad Commission and in interstate commerce that is subject to FERC jurisdiction under Section 311 of the NGPA. The maximum rates for services are established under Section 311 of the NGPA and are generally subject to review every five years by the FERC.

The Surface Transportation Board (“STB”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for interstate service on its ethylene pipelines. The Louisiana Public Service Commission (“LPSC”) regulates the rates Boardwalk Pipelines charges for intrastate service within the state of Louisiana on its petrochemical and NGL pipelines. The STB and LPSC require that Boardwalk Pipelines’ transportation rates are reasonable and that its practices cannot unreasonably discriminate among its shippers.

Boardwalk Pipelines is also regulated by the U.S. Department of Transportation (“DOT”) through the Pipeline and Hazardous Material Safety Administration (“PHMSA”) under the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended (“NGPSA”) and the Hazardous Liquids Pipeline Safety Act of 1979, as amended (“HLPSA”). The NGPSA and HLPSA govern the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of interstate
10
Table of Contents

natural gas and NGL pipeline facilities. Boardwalk Pipelines has authority from PHMSA to operate certain natural gas pipeline assets under issued permits with specific conditions that allow it to operate those pipeline assets at higher than normal operating pressures of up to 0.80 of the pipeline’s Specified Minimum Yield Strength (“SMYS”). Operating at these pressures allows these pipelines to transport all the existing natural gas volumes Boardwalk Pipelines has contracted for on those facilities with its customers. PHMSA retains discretion whether to grant or maintain authority for Boardwalk Pipelines to operate its natural gas pipeline assets at higher pressures and, in the event that PHSMA should elect not to allow Boardwalk Pipelines to operate at these higher pressures, it could affect its ability to transport all of its contracted quantities of natural gas on these pipeline assets, and Boardwalk Pipelines could incur significant additional costs to reinstate this authority or to develop alternate ways to meet its contractual obligations. PHMSA’s regulations also require transportation pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate certain high risk areas, known as high consequence areas (“HCAs”), high population areas (also known as moderate consequence areas (“MCAs”)), and Class 3 and Class 4 areas, which are determined by specific population densities near Boardwalk Pipelines’ pipelines, as well as certain drinking water sources and unusually sensitive ecological areas, along Boardwalk Pipelines’ pipelines and take additional safety measures to protect people and property in these areas.

Legislation in the past decade has resulted in more stringent mandates for pipeline safety and has charged PHMSA with developing and adopting regulations that impose increased pipeline safety requirements on pipeline operators. In particular, the NGPSA and HLPSA were amended by the Pipeline Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (“2011 Act”) and the Protecting Our Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016 (“2016 Act”). The 2011 Act increased the penalties for safety violations, established additional safety requirements for newly constructed pipelines and required studies of safety issues that could result in the adoption of new regulatory requirements by PHMSA for existing pipelines. The 2016 Act, among other things, required PHMSA to complete its outstanding mandates under the 2011 Act and develop new safety standards for natural gas storage facilities. Pursuant to the 2016 Act, PHMSA published a final rule in February of 2020 that amended the minimum safety issues related to natural gas storage facilities, including wells, wellbore tubing and casing, which final rule was amended to add applicable reporting requirements and was published in July of 2020. Also, in October of 2019, PHMSA published the first of three expected regulations relating to new or more stringent requirements for certain natural gas pipelines, that had originally been proposed in 2016 as part of PHMSA’s “gas Mega Rule,” which first final rule became effective on July 1, 2020. This regulation imposed numerous requirements, including  maximum allowable operating pressure (“MAOP”) reconfirmation through re-verification of all historical records for pipelines in service, which re-certification process may require natural gas pipelines installed before 1970 (previously excluded from certain pressure testing obligations) to be pressure tested, the periodic assessment of additional pipeline mileage outside of HCAs (in MCAs as well as Class 3 and Class 4 areas), the reporting of exceedances of MAOP and the consideration of seismicity as a risk factor in integrity management. Additional amendments to this October 2019 final rule relating to recordkeeping for gas transmission lines were published by PHMSA in July of 2020. Boardwalk Pipelines is currently evaluating the operational and financial impact related to this final rule. The remaining rulemakings comprising the gas Mega Rule have not yet been published, and Boardwalk Pipelines cannot predict when they will be finalized; however, they are expected to include revised pipeline repair criteria as well as more stringent corrosion control requirements.

Also, in the Fiscal Year 2021 Omnibus Appropriations Bill passed by Congress and made effective December 27, 2020, the Congress reauthorized PHMSA through fiscal year 2023 and directed the agency to move forward with several regulatory actions, including the “Pipeline Safety: Class Location Change Requirements” and the “Pipeline Safety: Safety of Gas Transmission and Gathering Pipelines” proposed rulemakings. Congress has also instructed PHMSA to issue final regulations that will require operators of non-rural gas gathering lines and new and existing transmission and distribution pipeline facilities to conduct certain leak detection and repair programs and to require facility inspection and maintenance plans to align with those regulations. New regulations adopted by PHMSA may impose more stringent requirements applicable to integrity management programs and other pipeline safety aspects of Boardwalk Pipelines operations, which could cause it to incur increased capital and operating costs and operational delays.

Boardwalk Pipelines’ operations are also subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment and occupational health and safety. Such laws and regulations impose, among other things, restrictions, liabilities and obligations in connection with the generation, handling, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of various substances including hazardous substances and waste and in connection with spills,
11
Table of Contents

releases, discharges and emissions of various substances into the environment. Environmental regulations also require that Boardwalk Pipelines’ facilities, sites and other properties be operated, maintained, abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of applicable regulatory authorities. Occupational health and safety regulations establish standards protective of workers, both generally and within the pipeline industry.

Many states where Boardwalk Pipelines operates also have, or are developing, similar environmental or occupational health and safety legal requirements governing many of the same types of activities, and those requirements can be more stringent than those adopted under federal laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these federal, state and local laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of corrective or remedial obligations, the incurrence of capital expenditures, the occurrence of delays, denials or cancellations in permitting or the development or expansion of projects and the issuance of orders enjoining performance of some or all of Boardwalk Pipelines’ operations in the affected areas.

President Biden has indicated that he intends to pursue additional environmental regulations, whether by new legislation, executive actions or regulatory initiatives, which may impact Boardwalk Pipelines’ operations. For example, in recent years, there have been conflicting interpretations of what waterways are subject to jurisdiction under the Clean Water Act, with competing rulemakings being developed, and subsequently challenged in courts, by different presidential administrations. The incoming Biden Administration may propose another interpretation of the extent of this jurisdiction, though we cannot predict the likelihood or effects of any such proposal at this time. Similarly, President Biden has announced plans to take action with regards to climate change and signed executive orders to this effect on January 20, 2021 as described under Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Report.

Historically, Boardwalk Pipelines’ environmental compliance costs have not had a material adverse effect on its business, but there can be no assurance that future compliance with existing requirements will not materially affect Boardwalk Pipelines, or that the current regulatory standards will not become more onerous in the future, resulting in more significant costs to maintain compliance or increased exposure to significant liabilities.

Properties:  Boardwalk Pipelines is headquartered in leased office space located in Houston, Texas. Boardwalk Pipelines also leases office space in Owensboro, Kentucky. Boardwalk Pipelines’ operating subsidiaries own their respective pipeline systems in fee. However, substantial portions of these systems are constructed and maintained on property owned by others pursuant to rights-of-way, easements, permits, licenses or consents.

12
Table of Contents


LOEWS HOTELS HOLDING CORPORATION

Loews Hotels Holding Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, “Loews Hotels & Co”) operates a chain of 27 hotels. Eleven of these hotels are owned by Loews Hotels & Co, twelve are owned by joint ventures in which Loews Hotels & Co has non-controlling equity interests and four are managed for unaffiliated owners. Loews Hotels & Co’s earnings are derived from the operation of its owned hotels, its share of earnings in joint venture hotels and hotel management fees earned from both joint venture and managed hotels. Loews Hotels & Co accounted for 2.2%, 4.6% and 5.4% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The hotels are described below.

	
Number of
Name and Location
	
Rooms
  	 
Owned:
	 
Loews Chicago Hotel, Chicago, Illinois
	
400
Loews Chicago O’Hare Hotel, Chicago, Illinois
	
556
Loews Coronado Bay Resort, San Diego, California
	
439
Loews Hotel 1000, Seattle, Washington
	
120
Loews Kansas City Hotel, Kansas City, Missouri*
	
800
Loews Miami Beach Hotel, Miami Beach, Florida
	
790
Loews Minneapolis Hotel, Minneapolis, Minnesota
	
251
Loews Philadelphia Hotel, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
	
581
Loews Regency New York Hotel, New York, New York
	
379
Loews Vanderbilt Hotel, Nashville, Tennessee
	
340
Loews Ventana Canyon Resort, Tucson, Arizona
	
398
  	 
Joint Venture:
	 
Hard Rock Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida
	
650
Live! by Loews, Arlington, Texas
	
300
Live! By Loews, St. Louis, Missouri
	
216
Loews Atlanta Hotel, Atlanta, Georgia
	
414
Loews Hollywood Hotel, Hollywood, California
	
628
Loews Portofino Bay Hotel, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida
	
750
Loews Royal Pacific Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida
	
1,000
Loews Sapphire Falls Resort, at Universal Orlando, Orlando, Florida
	
1,000
Universal’s Aventura Hotel, Orlando, Florida
	
600
Universal’s Cabana Bay Beach Resort, Orlando, Florida
	
2,200
Universal’s Endless Summer Resort – Dockside Inn and Suites, Orlando, Florida
	
2,050
Universal’s Endless Summer Resort – Surfside Inn and Suites, Orlando, Florida
	
750
  	 
Management Contract:
	 
Bisha Hotel and Residences, Toronto, Canada
	
96
Loews Boston Hotel, Boston, Massachusetts
	
225
Loews New Orleans Hotel, New Orleans, Louisiana
	
285
Loews Santa Monica Beach Hotel, Santa Monica, California
	
347

* 	
Loews Hotels & Co has a controlling majority equity interest in this property.

Note: 	
Two owned hotels and many of the joint venture hotels are subject to land leases.

13
Table of Contents


Recent Developments and Growth Projects:

•
	
In December 2020, Universal’s Endless Summer Resort – Dockside Inn and Suites at Universal Orlando opened with 2,050 guestrooms. As with Loews Hotels & Co’s other properties at Universal Orlando, Loews Hotels & Co operates the hotel and has a joint venture interest in the property;

•
	
In June 2020, Loews Kansas City Hotel in Kansas City, Missouri, an 800 guestroom hotel with extensive meeting space, opened. Loews Hotels & Co operates the hotel and has a controlling majority equity interest in the property;

•
	
In February 2020, Live! by Loews in St. Louis, Missouri, a 216 guestroom hotel, opened. Loews Hotels & Co operates the hotel and has a joint venture interest in the property;

•
	
In 2020, the sale of the Hotel Vogue in Montreal, Canada and an office building in Nashville, Tennessee were completed; and

•
	
In 2022, Loews Coral Gables Hotel in Coral Gables, Florida, an approximately 242 guestroom hotel in which Loews Hotels & Co will serve as manager and will have a joint venture interest upon completion, is expected to be completed.

ALTIUM PACKAGING LLC

Altium Packaging is a packaging solutions provider and manufacturer in North America. The business specializes in customized mid- and short-run packaging solutions, serving a diverse customer base in the pharmaceutical, dairy, household chemicals, food/nutraceuticals, industrial/specialty chemicals, water and beverage/juice segments. Altium Packaging develops, manufactures and markets a wide range of extrusion blow-molded and injection molded plastic containers for target markets. In addition, Altium Packaging manufactures commodity and differentiated plastic resins from recycled plastic materials for a variety of end markets. Altium Packaging accounted for 8.1%, 6.2% and 6.2% of our consolidated total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.

Customers: Altium Packaging sells its products to approximately 9,600 customers throughout North America. Altium Packaging’s largest customers for rigid packaging include a diverse customer base of many nationally recognized branded food, beverage, consumer products and pharmaceutical companies. The recycled resins customer base is primarily domestic with customers in several end markets such as packaging, automotive, industrial and consumer goods.

Properties: Altium Packaging leases its corporate offices in Atlanta, Georgia and Omaha, Nebraska. It operates 60 manufacturing facilities located throughout the United States and seven facilities located in Canada, of which 59 are leased and eight are owned. In addition, Altium Packaging utilizes fourteen warehouse facilities, of which twelve are leased and two are owned.

HUMAN CAPITAL

Including our subsidiaries, we employed approximately 12,200 persons at December 31, 2020. CNA employed approximately 5,800 persons. Boardwalk Pipelines employed approximately 1,240 persons, approximately 100 of whom were covered under collective bargaining agreements. Loews Hotels & Co employed approximately 1,700 persons, approximately 280 of whom were covered under collective bargaining agreements. Altium Packaging employed approximately 3,300 persons, approximately 300 of whom were covered under collective bargaining agreements. We and our subsidiaries have satisfactory labor relations. Separately, unconsolidated entities employ approximately 2,000 persons at properties managed by Loews Hotels & Co.

We and our subsidiaries understand that hiring the right people is critical to our businesses’ long-term strategic success. Each of us has programs in place to help employees build their knowledge, skills and experience, as well as to guide their career development. Across the Loews enterprise, a cornerstone of our human capital strategy is our commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment, where all people are respected and encouraged to contribute their ideas. We believe that by employing individuals with different backgrounds and experiences, we can better meet the diverse needs of all our stakeholders.
14
Table of Contents

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Loews and CNA pivoted to a remote working environment in March of 2020. In the third and fourth quarters Loews and CNA began voluntary re-opening some offices to accommodate employees seeking this flexibility, while carefully monitoring the conditions in those areas and implementing health and safety protocols to protect employees.

Boardwalk Pipelines is part of a critical infrastructure industry whose customers and communities depend upon it to provide safe and reliable service. Boardwalk Pipelines’ employees are essential to ensuring it continues to meet these objectives, and they consider safety in their day-to-day activities to be their primary core value. Boardwalk Pipelines’ emphasis on safety extends to their approach to managing the risk of operational disruptions due to COVID-19, and they have maintained full, continuous operations throughout the pandemic.

The economic effects of COVID-19 have significantly impacted Loews Hotels & Co. In an environment with significantly reduced travel, Loews Hotels & Co had to move aggressively to reduce costs. These cost-reduction measures involved furloughing a substantial portion of its workforce. To help its affected team members, Loews Hotels & Co set up a relief fund and continued to provide medical insurance for several months. When hotels resumed operations, Loews Hotels & Co put into place significant new and enhanced safety and well-being standards and protocols for both team members and guests.

Altium Packaging was deemed an essential business and therefore has continued to operate as a link in the food and household goods supply chains during the COVID-19 pandemic. Altium Packaging is committed to its employees’ safety and has implemented health and safety protocols to help protect its employees.

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

	  	  	
First
  	  	  	
Became
Name                 
	
Position and Offices Held
	
Age
	
Officer
  	  	  	 
Marc A. Alpert
	
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
	
58
	
2016
David B. Edelson
	
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
	
61
	
2005
Richard W. Scott
	
Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer
	
67
	
2009
Kenneth I. Siegel
	
Senior Vice President
	
63
	
2009
Andrew H. Tisch
	
Office of the President, Co-Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Executive Committee
	
71
	
1985
James S. Tisch
	
Office of the President, President and Chief Executive Officer
	
68
	
1981
Jonathan M. Tisch
	
Office of the President and Co-Chairman of the Board
	
67
	
1987

Andrew H. Tisch and James S. Tisch are brothers and are cousins of Jonathan M. Tisch. None of our other executive officers or directors is related to any other.

All of our executive officers, except for Marc A. Alpert, have served in their current roles at Loews Corporation for at least the past five years. Prior to assuming his current role at Loews Corporation in July of 2016, Mr. Alpert served as a partner and head of the Public Companies Practice Group at the law firm of Chadbourne & Parke LLP.

Officers are elected annually and hold office until their successors are elected and qualified, and are subject to removal by the Board of Directors.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our website address is www.loews.com. We make available, free of charge, through the website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Audit Committee charter, Compensation
15
Table of Contents

Committee charter and Nominating and Governance Committee charter are also available on our website. Information on or accessible through our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other SEC filings made by Loews Corporation are also accessible through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
