General
L Brands, Inc. ("we” or the "Company") operates the Bath & Body Works, Victoria's Secret and PINK retail brands in the highly competitive specialty retail business. Founded in 1963 in Columbus, Ohio, we have evolved from an apparel-based specialty retailer to a segment leader focused on home fragrance products, body care, soaps and sanitizers, women’s intimate and other apparel, and personal and beauty care products. We sell our merchandise through company-operated specialty retail stores in the United States ("U.S."), Canada and Greater China, through international franchise, license and wholesale partners (collectively, "partners") and through websites worldwide.
We are committed to establishing our Bath & Body Works business as a pure-play public company and are taking the necessary steps to prepare the Victoria's Secret business, including PINK, to operate as a separate standalone company. Our Board of Directors (the "Board") is currently evaluating all options, including a potential spin-off of the Victoria’s Secret business into a public company or a private sale of the business.
Segment Reporting
In the third quarter of 2020, we changed our segment reporting as a result of leadership changes and restructuring actions taken to facilitate the ongoing efforts to separate Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret into separate businesses. We now have two reportable segments: Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret. Accordingly, we will no longer report a Victoria’s Secret and Bath & Body Works International segment as these businesses are now included with their respective brand. Additionally, the Bath & Body Works and Victoria’s Secret segments now include sourcing and production functions (formerly known as Mast) and certain other corporate functions that directly support each brand. These functions were previously included within Other. While this reporting change did not impact our consolidated results, the segment data has been recast to be consistent for all periods presented.
For additional information, including the financial results of our reportable segments, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Bath & Body Works
Bath & Body Works, which sells products under the Bath & Body Works, White Barn, C.O. Bigelow and other brand names, is one of the leading specialty retailers of body care, home fragrance products, soaps and sanitizers. We operate more than 1,735 Bath & Body Works stores in the U.S. and Canada and online at www.BathandBodyWorks.com. Additionally, Bath & Body Works has more than 285 stores in more than 30 other countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.
Victoria’s Secret
Victoria’s Secret, including PINK, is a specialty retailer of women's intimate and other apparel with fashion-inspired collections and prestige fragrances. We operate more than 930 Victoria’s Secret and PINK stores in the U.S., Canada and Greater China as well as online at www.VictoriasSecret.com and www.PINK.com. Additionally, Victoria’s Secret and PINK have more than 455 stores in more than 70 countries operating under franchise, license and wholesale arrangements.
Impacts of COVID-19
In March 2020, the spread of a novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") was declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization. This pandemic has negatively affected the U.S. and global economies, disrupted global supply chains and financial markets, and led to significant travel and transportation restrictions, including mandatory closures and orders to “shelter-in-place.” The actions that governments around the world have taken to contain the spread of COVID-19 have resulted in a period of disruption, including closure of our stores, limited store operating hours, reduced customer traffic and consumer spending and delays in manufacturing and shipping of products and raw materials. During this period, we are focused on protecting the health and safety of our customers, employees, contractors, suppliers and other business partners. We are also working with our suppliers to minimize potential disruptions, while managing our business in response to a changing dynamic. There remains a high level of uncertainty around the pandemic and the potential for further restrictions.
Our business operations and financial performance for 2020 were materially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. During the COVID-19 pandemic, our first priority was and continues to be the safety of our associates and customers. All of our stores in North America were closed on March 17, 2020, but we were able to re-open the majority of our stores as of the beginning of the third quarter of 2020. We adopted new operating models in our stores that focused on providing a safe shopping experience. We followed capacity limitations that ranged from 25% to 50% of normal, reduced store operating hours, closed fitting rooms at Victoria's Secret stores, added registers to promote social distancing and invested in increased labor to accommodate capacity restrictions and new cleaning protocols and in personal protective equipment for our employees. At Bath & Body Works, we
1
Table of Contents
launched Buy Online Pick Up In Store ("BOPIS") capabilities in some locations and are able to operate stores as BOPIS Only in jurisdictions that do not permit open shopping. We will continue to follow local laws to ensure a safe environment.
We are engaged in maximizing our direct businesses while focusing on distribution, fulfillment and call center safety during the pandemic. Bath & Body Works Direct, which remained open for the duration of fiscal 2020, grew sales by 109% to $2.003 billion. Although operations for Victoria’s Secret Direct were temporarily suspended for approximately one week in late March 2020, sales grew 31% in fiscal 2020 to $2.223 billion. We have dedicated resources to maximize our fulfillment capacity to meet the significant increase in digital demand, and as a result are achieving record productivity while maintaining standard delivery times despite fulfillment and shipping capacity constraints.
In response to the global COVID-19 crisis, we took prudent actions to manage expenses and to maintain our solid cash position and financial flexibility. We:
•Furloughed most store associates as of April 5, 2020 during the temporary store closures, while continuing to provide healthcare benefits for eligible associates;
•Suspended associate merit increases;
•Temporarily reduced salaries for senior vice presidents and above by 20%;
•Temporarily suspended cash compensation for all members of the Board of Directors;
•Reduced fiscal 2020 capital expenditures from an original forecast of $550 million to $228 million;
•Actively managed inventory to adjust for the impact of channel shifts to meet customer demand;
•Temporarily suspended the quarterly cash dividend beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2020;
•Suspended many store and select office rent payments during the temporary closures. We completed negotiations with the majority of landlords, leading to a combination of rent waivers or abatements relating to closure periods, rent relief relating to the post-reopening “recovery” period given traffic declines, and rent deferrals;
•Converted the revolving credit facility to an asset-backed loan facility, issued $2.25 billion in new notes and extinguished $1.259 billion of notes primarily with near-term maturities; and
•Extended payment terms to vendors.
As of January 30, 2021, we had $3.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents with no outstanding borrowings on our asset-backed revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”).
Divestitures and Closure
Victoria's Secret U.K.
Due to challenging business results for Victoria's Secret in the United Kingdom ("U.K."), we entered into Administration in June 2020 to restructure store lease agreements and reduce operating losses in the Victoria's Secret U.K. business. In October 2020, we entered into a joint venture with Next PLC for the Victoria’s Secret business in the U.K. and Ireland. Under this agreement, we own 49% of the joint venture, and Next owns 51% and is responsible for operations. We account for our investment in the joint venture under the equity method of accounting. For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
La Senza
On January 6, 2019, we completed the sale of the La Senza business to an affiliate of Regent LP, a global private equity firm. For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Henri Bendel
In January 2019, we closed all of our Henri Bendel stores and the e-commerce website. For additional information, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Fiscal Year
Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. As used herein, “2020,” “2019,” “2018” and "2016" refer to the 52-week periods ended January 30, 2021, February 1, 2020, February 2, 2019 and January 28, 2017, respectively. "2017" refers to the 53-week period ended February 3, 2018.
2
Table of Contents
Real Estate
Company-operated Retail Stores
Our company-operated retail stores are located in shopping malls, lifestyle centers and off-mall locations in the U.S., Canada and Greater China. As a result of our strong brands and established retail presence, we have been able to lease high-traffic locations in most retail centers in which we operate.
The following table provides the number of our company-operated retail stores in operation for each brand as of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020:
											
	January 30, 2021		February 1, 2020
Bath & Body Works U.S.	1,633		1,637 	
Bath & Body Works Canada	103		102 	
Victoria’s Secret U.S.	846		1,053 	
Victoria’s Secret Canada	25 			38 	
Victoria's Secret U.K. / Ireland	— 			26 	
Victoria's Secret Beauty and Accessories Greater China	36 			41 	
Victoria's Secret Greater China	26 			23 	
Total	2,669		2,920 	

The following table provides the changes in the number of our company-operated retail stores operated for the past three fiscal years:
																																			
	Beginning
of Year		Opened		Closed		Sold (a)		Transferred to Joint Venture (b)		End of Year
2020	2,920 			53 			(278)			— 			(26)			2,669 	
2019	2,943 			64 			(87)			— 			— 			2,920 	
2018	3,075 			88 			(90)			(130)			— 			2,943 	
_______________
(a)    Relates to the sale of the La Senza business. For additional information see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
(b)    Relates to the Victoria's Secret U.K. joint venture with Next PLC. For additional information see Note 5 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Franchise, License and Wholesale Arrangements
In addition to our company-operated stores, our products are sold at hundreds of partner locations and on partner websites in more than 70 countries. Revenue recognized under franchise and license arrangements generally consists of royalties earned and recognized upon sale of merchandise by franchise and license partners to retail customers. Revenue is generally recognized under wholesale and sourcing arrangements at the time the title passes to the partner. We continue to increase the number of locations under these types of arrangements as part of our international expansion.
3
Table of Contents
The following table provides the number of our international stores operated by our partners for each business as of January 30, 2021 and February 1, 2020:
											
	January 30, 2021		February 1, 2020
Bath & Body Works	288 			278 	
Victoria’s Secret Beauty and Accessories	338 			360 	
Victoria’s Secret	120 			84 	
Total	746 			722 	
Our Strengths
We believe the following competitive strengths contribute to our leading market position, differentiate us from our competitors and will drive future growth:
Industry Leading Brands
We have developed and operate brands that allow us to target markets across the economic spectrum, across demographics and across the world. We believe that our three brands, Bath & Body Works, Victoria's Secret and PINK, are highly recognizable, which provides us with a competitive advantage.
•Bath & Body Works caters to our customers’ entire well-being, providing shower gels and lotions, aromatherapy, home fragrance, soaps and sanitizers and body care accessories.
•At Victoria’s Secret, we market fashionable product lines to our customers. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, this brand also gives our customers choices in beauty products, fragrances, sleepwear, loungewear, athletic attire, swimwear and personal care accessories.
•At PINK, we market products to the college-aged woman. While bras and panties are the core of what we do, this brand also gives our customers choices in apparel, loungewear, athletic attire, swimwear and accessories.
In-Store Experience and Store Operations
We view our customers' in-store experience as an important vehicle for communicating the image of each brand. We utilize visual presentation of merchandise, in-store marketing, music and our sales associates to reinforce the image represented by the brands.
Our in-store marketing is designed to convey the principal elements and personality of each brand. The store design, furniture, fixtures and music are all carefully planned and coordinated to create a unique shopping experience. Every brand displays merchandise uniformly to ensure a consistent store experience, regardless of location. Store managers receive detailed plans designating fixture and merchandise placement to ensure coordinated execution of the company-wide merchandising strategy.
Our sales associates and managers are a central element in creating the atmosphere of the stores by providing a high level of customer service.
Digital Experience
In addition to our in-store experience, we strive to create a customer-centric digital platform that integrates the digital and physical brand experience. Our digital presence, including social media, our websites and our mobile applications, allows us to get to know our customers better and communicate with them anytime and anywhere.
Product Development, Sourcing and Logistics
We believe a large part of our success comes from frequent and innovative product launches, which include new fragrance and other product launches at Bath & Body Works, and bra launches at Victoria’s Secret and PINK. Our merchant, design and sourcing teams have a long history of bringing innovative products to our customers. Additionally, we believe that our sourcing and production functions have a long and deep presence in the key sourcing markets including those in the U.S. and Asia, which helps us partner with the best manufacturers to get high-quality products quickly.
Experienced and Committed Management Team
Our senior management team has a wealth of retail and business experience at L Brands, Inc. and other companies such as The Gap, Banana Republic, Ann Taylor, Loft, The Home Depot, Yum Brands, Ross Stores, Abercrombie & Fitch and Boots. We believe that we have one of the most experienced management teams in retail.
4
Table of Contents
Additional Information
Merchandise Vendors
During 2020, we purchased merchandise from approximately 320 vendors located throughout the world. No vendor provided 10% or more of our merchandise purchases.
Distribution and Merchandise Inventory
A substantial portion of our merchandise is shipped to our distribution centers in the Columbus, Ohio area. Additionally, we use third-party operated distribution centers located throughout North America to distribute our merchandise. We use a variety of shipping terms that result in the transfer of title of the merchandise at either the point of origin or point of destination.
Our policy is to maintain sufficient quantities of inventories on hand in our retail stores and distribution centers to enable us to offer customers an appropriate selection of current merchandise. We emphasize rapid turnover and take markdowns as required to keep merchandise fresh and current.
We are actively managing our inventory to adjust for the impacts of COVID-19, including store closures, channel shifts, product category shifts and meeting customer demand. The current environment requires unprecedented agility, and we are leveraging the speed that we have in our supply chain, our close partnerships with our suppliers and the capabilities of our sourcing, production and logistics teams to respond quickly.
Information Systems
Our management information systems consist of a full range of retail, financial and merchandising systems. The systems include applications related to point-of-sale, e-commerce, merchandising, planning, sourcing, logistics, inventory management, data security and support systems including human resources and finance.
Seasonal Business
Our operations are seasonal in nature and consist of two principal selling seasons: Spring (the first and second quarters) and Fall (the third and fourth quarters). The fourth quarter, including the holiday season, typically accounts for approximately one-third of our net sales and is our most profitable quarter. Accordingly, cash requirements are highest in the third quarter as our inventories build in advance of the holiday season.
Working Capital
We fund our business operations through a combination of available cash and cash equivalents and cash flows generated from operations. In addition, our credit facilities are available for additional working capital needs and investment opportunities.
Regulation
We and our products are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign regulatory authorities. We are subject to a variety of tax and customs regulations and international trade arrangements.
Trademarks and Patents
Our trademarks and patents, which constitute our primary intellectual property, have been registered or are the subject of pending applications in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. We believe our products are identified by our intellectual property and, thus, our intellectual property is of significant value. Accordingly, we intend to maintain our intellectual property and related registrations and vigorously protect our intellectual property assets against infringement.
Other Information
For additional information about our business, including our net sales and profits for the last three years and selling square footage, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Competition
The sale of home fragrance products, body care, soaps and sanitizers, women’s intimate and other apparel, and personal and beauty care products is a highly competitive business with numerous competitors, including individual and chain specialty stores, department stores, online retailers and discount retailers. Brand image, presentation, marketing, design, price, service, fulfillment, assortment and quality are the principal competitive factors.
5
Table of Contents
Human Capital Management
L Brands Human Capital
At L Brands, our purpose goes beyond selling product. We work to foster a safe, welcoming and empowering workplace for our thousands of associates around the globe and are truly making a difference in our communities.
The Company has a Human Capital and Compensation Committee that oversees the Company’s programs, policies, practices and strategies relating to culture, talent diversity, inclusion and equal employment opportunities as well as the Company’s executive compensation plans.
Workforce Demographics
As of January 30, 2021, we employed approximately 92,300 associates, 69,900 of whom were part-time. In addition, temporary associates are hired during peak periods, such as the holiday season. Approximately 85% of our associates work in our stores, 5% in distribution centers with the balance in home office and call centers.
Through our brands, we are focused on women. Women fill roles from our stores to our Board room. As of January 30, 2021, women make up 89% of our workforce and 50% of our Board members.
Focus on Inclusion
We focus on recruiting, retaining and advancing diverse talent that reflects the customers we serve and the communities where we live and work. By continuing to encourage a workplace environment where diversity and inclusion are valued, we believe we can serve our customers better, as well as retain highly talented associates, suppliers and vendors of different backgrounds and experiences.
Led by our Office of Inclusion and with oversight from the Human Capital and Compensation Committee, the enterprise has built an inclusion strategy with five key pillars:
•Increase the diversity of candidate slates and hires for all roles.
•Develop, deploy and ensure completion of required learning at all levels bringing awareness and education to associates on diversity, equity and inclusion.
•Improve retention of diverse associates at all levels. Monitor culture change and employee satisfaction through survey results.
•Increase volunteerism and giving to organizations targeting racial equity and social justice.
•Increase spend with minority-owned third-party companies.
More than 99% of our associates have completed training on our strategic vision for diversity and inclusion which includes lessons on bias, equity and conscious inclusion. The training emphasizes both the Company’s and associates’ responsibility to build an inclusive culture.
In addition, we have Inclusion Resource Groups that provide opportunity for associates to connect with one another around their shared passion for creating an inclusive workplace for all associates. These groups provide professional development for associates, support the needs of the business, help shape the culture of our company and volunteer in the community. We have over 1,400 associates participating in four Inclusion Resource Groups designed for associates who identify as, or are allies of, the following groups: Hispanic and Latinx, LGBTQ, Black and African American and women.
Commitment to Equitable and Competitive Wages
We are committed to equal opportunity and treatment for all associates which includes equal career advancement opportunities and equitable and competitive wages. We evaluate fairness in total compensation with reference to both internal and external comparisons. Our compensation programs are designed to link annual changes in compensation to overall Company performance, as well as each individual’s contribution to the results achieved. The emphasis on overall Company performance is intended to align the associates’ financial interests with the interests of shareholders.
Our investment in our workforce in 2020 included the expansion of participation in the short-term cash incentive compensation (IC) program to include all salaried associates in the home office, distribution or call centers beginning with the Fall 2020 season and going forward.
6
Table of Contents
Commitment to Providing Quality Benefits
At L Brands, we offer competitive, performance-based compensation; a company-matched savings and retirement plan; and flexible and affordable health and wellness and lifestyle benefits. Subject to certain eligibility requirements, associates can choose benefits and resources that fit their lifestyle, including, but not limited to, 14 weeks paid maternity leave, 6 weeks paid paternal leave, tuition reimbursement, free access to life planning services and generous L Brands merchandise discount.
Associate Development
We are committed to investing in all our associates. We provide diverse learning opportunities and challenging work experiences. We believe that associates can reach their career goals through multiple roles, career paths and locations around the world. We offer a variety of enrichment experiences for those joining us as interns, new graduates, in mid-career or as a capstone to a career. Examples include:
•Development Days: Dedicated time to advance technical, creative or business skills.
•Leadership Development: Courses for associates in management positions to build critical skills and grow as effective leaders.
•Merchant-in-Training Program: Immersive program to learn the craft both on the job and from experts in the classroom.
•Onboarding: Dedicated time to learn the business and to form important relationships for mentoring and development.
•Tuition Assistance: Reimbursement of 80 percent of eligible tuition expenses, up to $3,000 per calendar year.
Safety is Our Priority
Health and safety of our associates, customers and vendors is our highest priority. We provide safe and clean facilities, comply with all applicable workplace safety laws and have global safety policies and procedures to protect from avoidable injury.
In response to COVID-19, we implemented robust safety protocols to protect associates working in our distribution centers, stores and home offices. Associates whose work can be done remotely are working from home. For associates who are working in our stores, offices and distribution centers, we are utilizing COVID-19 safety measures developed to align with CDC guidelines.
Code of Conduct
We have a written Code of Conduct that is based on our values and is a resource where associates can find information that defines behaviors that are acceptable and those that are not. We conduct an annual Code of Conduct compliance process which requires associates to complete a Code of Conduct disclosure and a separate training course.
We maintain an Ethics Hotline 24 hours a day, 7 days a week where associates may anonymously report potential instances of unethical conduct and potential violations of law or company policies.
Executive Officers of Registrant
To navigate our business transformation, and manage the COVID-19 crisis, our Board prioritized establishing a leadership team that will address the challenges facing the business and position our brands for success, resulting in changes at the most senior executive levels. In May, our founder, Leslie H. Wexner stepped down as Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chairman of the Board of L Brands, remaining a member of the Board as Chairman Emeritus. Andrew M. Meslow, previously CEO of Bath & Body Works, was named CEO of L Brands and joined the Board. Stuart B. Burgdoerfer, Chief Financial Officer of L Brands, took on the added role of interim CEO for Victoria's Secret. On March 18, 2021, we announced that Leslie H. Wexner would not stand for reelection to the Board at the annual shareholders’ meeting in May 2021.
In June 2020, Charles C. McGuigan left his role as Chief Operating Officer of L Brands and CEO and President of Mast Global. In September, Julie B. Rosen was hired as President at Bath & Body Works to lead the development of products across all categories. In October, Shelley B. Milano left her role as Chief Human Resources Officer of L Brands, allowing for separate human resources leadership teams for each of Bath & Body Works and Victoria's Secret going forward. Deon N. Riley joined L Brands in December to fill the Chief Human Resources Officer role for L Brands and Bath & Body Works, and Laura Miller joined L Brands in November to fill the Chief Human Resources Officer role for Victoria's Secret.
Following these changes, as of the end of fiscal 2020, our named executive officers are as follows:
•Andrew M. Meslow, 51, has been our Chief Executive Officer since May 2020 and has had senior leadership positions with Bath & Body Works since 2005. Mr. Meslow, who joined L Brands in 2003, has 29 years of experience in the retail industry, including previous roles at Ann Taylor and Banana Republic;
•Stuart B. Burgdoerfer, 57, has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007, served in senior leadership positions with the Company from 1998 to 2004 and has previous retail experience with The Home Depot, Inc.;
7
Table of Contents
•James L. Bersani, 62, has been our President of Real Estate since March 2014 and has led our real estate function since April 2006. Mr. Bersani has held a variety of roles in the real estate department with increasing leadership since joining L Brands in 1986;
•Julie B. Rosen, 55, has been our President of Bath & Body Works since September 2020. Prior to joining L Brands, Ms. Rosen ran her own retail consulting business with clients including Nike, Theory and Bare Escentuals and has prior retail experience at Banana Republic, Gap, Ann Taylor and Loft; and
•Deon N. Riley, 53, has been our Chief Human Resources Officer since December 2020. Ms. Riley joined L Brands from Ross Stores and served in leadership roles at Abercrombie & Fitch.
In February 2021, we announced Mr. Burgdoerfer's intention to retire from the Company effective in August 2021. Mr. Burgdoerfer will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer until his retirement, but no longer serves as the interim CEO for Victoria’s Secret. Upon the announcement of Mr. Burgdoerfer's planned retirement, Martin Waters was promoted to CEO of Victoria's Secret.
Recent Developments
On February 20, 2020, we and an affiliate of Sycamore Partners Management, L.P. ("Sycamore"), entered into a Transaction Agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") pursuant to which, among other things, the Company would have sold a 55% interest in the Company's Victoria's Secret and PINK businesses. On May 4, 2020, we and Sycamore mutually agreed to terminate the Transaction Agreement.
During 2020, we took a number of important steps to improve performance at Victoria's Secret and to prepare Bath & Body Works and Victoria's Secret to operate as separate standalone companies. All options, including a spin-off of the Victoria’s Secret business into a public company or a private sale of the business, are being evaluated.
On March 12, 2021, we announced actions we are taking to further enhance shareholder value and decrease leverage. Our Board of Directors authorized the following:
•A reduction in our debt that will be effected by a make whole call to repurchase the remaining $285 million of outstanding notes due February 2022 and the $750 million of outstanding secured notes due July 2025. This make whole call was issued on March 12, 2021 and we anticipate using approximately $1.1 billion in cash to complete the debt repurchase;
•A new $500 million share repurchase plan, which replaces the $79 million remaining under the March 2018 repurchase program; and
•A reinstatement of our annual dividend at $0.60 per share, beginning with the quarterly dividend to be paid in June 2021.
Available Information
We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and its rules and regulations. The Exchange Act requires us to file reports, proxy statements and other information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. These materials may be obtained electronically by accessing the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website at www.lb.com.
Copies of any of the above-referenced documents will also be made available, free of charge, upon written request to:
L Brands, Inc.
Investor Relations Department
Three Limited Parkway
Columbus, Ohio 43230
8
