Overview of Lennar Corporation
We are the largest homebuilder in the United States by home sale revenues and net earnings, an originator of residential and commercial mortgage loans, a provider of title insurance and closing services and a developer of multifamily rental properties. In addition, we are involved in a venture that will invest in single family rental homes, and we have interests in companies that are engaged in applying technology to improve the homebuilding industry and real estate related aspects of the financial services industry.
Our homebuilding operations are the most substantial part of our business, generating $21.0 billion in revenues, or approximately 93% of consolidated revenues, in fiscal 2020.
As of November 30, 2020, our reportable homebuilding segments and Homebuilding Other had divisions located in:
East: Florida, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and South Carolina
Central: Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia
Texas: Texas
West: Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington
Other: Urban divisions
Our other reportable segments are Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other. Financial information about our Homebuilding, Financial Services, Multifamily and Lennar Other operations is contained in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which is Item 7 of this Report.
About Our Company
Our company was founded as a local Miami homebuilder in 1954. We completed our initial public offering in 1971 and listed our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange in 1972. During the 1980s and 1990s, we entered and expanded operations in a number of homebuilding markets, including California, Florida and Texas, through both organic growth and acquisitions, such as Pacific Greystone Corporation in 1997. In 2000, we acquired U.S. Home Corporation, which expanded our operations into New Jersey, Maryland, Virginia, Minnesota and Colorado and strengthened our position in other states. From 2002 through 2005, we acquired several regional homebuilders, which brought us into new markets and strengthened our position in several existing markets. From 2010 through 2013, we expanded our homebuilding operations into Georgia, Oregon, Washington and Tennessee. In 2017, we acquired WCI Communities, Inc., a homebuilder of luxury single and multifamily homes, including a small number of luxury high-rise tower units, in Florida. In 2018, we acquired CalAtlantic Group, Inc. ("CalAtlantic"), a major homebuilder which was building homes across the homebuilding spectrum, from entry level to luxury, in 43 metropolitan statistical areas spanning 19 states, and providing mortgage, title and escrow services.
In fiscal 2020, as the coronavirus ("COVID-19") pandemic caused the shutdown of large portions of our national economy, we accelerated various technology initiatives that made our home sale process safer, including selling homes virtually or through self-guided tours and digital closings. As a robust housing market took shape, technology initiatives also helped meet strong housing demand. We are focused on increasing the efficiencies in our building process and reducing selling, general and administrative expenses by using technology, deferring home sale price commitments until construction costs are finalized to protect against anticipated future cost escalations and using innovative strategies to reduce customer acquisition costs. We also continue to focus on divesting non-core assets, possibly including our Multifamily platform, and migrating toward being more of a pure-play homebuilding and financial services company. In addition, we are continuing our pivot to a land light operating model by controlling the timing of land purchases, reducing our years owned supply of homesites and increasing the percentage of land controlled through options or agreements versus owned land. This included entering into arrangements in which third parties or joint ventures will purchase land we designate and give us options to purchase the land in the future. Shortly after the end of fiscal 2020, we entered into a venture that will invest in single family rental homes.
Homebuilding Operations
Overview
Our homebuilding operations include the construction and sale of single-family attached and detached homes as well as the purchase, development and sale of residential land directly and through entities in which we have investments. New home deliveries, including deliveries from unconsolidated entities, were 52,925 in fiscal 2020, compared to 51,491 in fiscal 2019 and 45,627 in fiscal 2018. We primarily sell homes in communities targeted to first-time, move-up, active adult, and luxury homebuyers. During 2020, we emphasized communities that targeted first time homebuyers, many of whom were moving out of urban locations in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The average sales price of a Lennar home varies depending on product and geographic location. For fiscal 2020, the average sales price, excluding deliveries from unconsolidated entities, was $395,000, compared to $400,000 in fiscal 2019 and $413,000 in fiscal 2018.
1
Table of Contents

We operate primarily under the Lennar brand name. Our homebuilding mission is focused on the profitable development of residential communities. Key elements of our strategy include:
•Strong Operating Margins - We believe our purchasing leverage combined with our focus on reducing selling, general and administrative costs by using technology and innovative strategies and reducing interest expense through paydowns of debt position us for strong operating margins.
•Everything’s Included® Approach - We are focused on distinguishing our products, including through our Everything’s Included® approach, which maximizes our purchasing power, enables us to include luxury features as standard items in our homes and simplifies our homebuilding operations.
•Innovative Homebuilding - We are constantly innovating the homes we build to create products that better meet our customers' needs and desires. Our Next Gen® home provides what can be a home within a home to accommodate children or parents or can be an office from which to work remotely.
•Flexible Operating Structure - Our local operating structure gives us the flexibility to make operating decisions based on local homebuilding conditions and customer preferences, while our centralized management structure provides oversight for our homebuilding operations.
•Digital Marketing - We are increasingly advertising homes through digital channels, which is significantly increasing the efficiency of our marketing efforts.
•Strategic partners and investments - We partner with and/or invest in technology companies that are looking to improve the homebuilding and financial services industries to better serve our customers and increase efficiencies.
•Land light strategy - We are focused on reducing our years owned supply of homesites and increasing the percentage of land controlled through options or agreements versus owned land.
Diversified Program of Property Acquisition
We generally acquire land for development and for the construction of homes that we sell to homebuyers. Land purchases are subject to specified underwriting criteria and are made through our diversified program of property acquisition, which may consist of:
•Acquiring land directly from individual land owners/developers or homebuilders;
•Acquiring local or regional homebuilders that own, or have options to purchase, land in strategic markets;
•Acquiring land through option contracts, which generally enables us to control portions of properties owned by third parties (including land funds) or entities in which we have investments until we have determined whether to exercise the options;
•Acquiring access to land through joint ventures or partnerships, which among other benefits, limits the amount of our capital invested in land while helping to ensure our access to potential future homesites and allowing us to participate in strategic ventures;
•Investing in regional developers in exchange for preferential land purchase opportunities; and
•Acquiring land in conjunction with Multifamily.
We are in the process of further reducing our reliance on land we own and increasing our access to land through options and joint ventures. At November 30, 2020, 39% of our total homesites were controlled through options and joint ventures compared to 33% at November 30, 2019. For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.
Construction and Development
We are involved in all phases of planning and building in our residential communities, including land acquisition, site planning, preparation and improvement of land and design, construction and marketing of homes. We use independent subcontractors for most aspects of home construction. At November 30, 2020, we were actively building and marketing homes in 1,177 communities, including four communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities. This was a decrease from the 1,283 communities, including five communities being constructed by unconsolidated entities, in which we were actively building and marketing homes at November 30, 2019. The decrease was the result of accelerated sales pace and deliveries as well as a result of delayed openings due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We anticipate the community count will increase by about 10% in fiscal 2021.
We generally supervise and control the development of land and the design and building of our residential communities with a relatively small labor force. We hire subcontractors for site improvements and virtually all of the work involved in the construction of homes. Arrangements with our subcontractors generally provide that our subcontractors will complete specified work in accordance with price and time schedules and in compliance with applicable building codes and
2
Table of Contents

laws. The price schedules may be subject to change to meet changes in labor and material costs or for other reasons. Although homebuilders throughout the country have sometimes encountered shortages of materials and skilled labor, because of our size and our builder of choice program, where we work with our trade partners to drive efficiencies, we have been less affected by these shortages than many of our competitors. We believe that the current availability of raw materials and labor to our subcontractors are in most locations adequate for our planned levels of operation. We generally do not own heavy construction equipment. We finance construction and land development activities primarily with cash generated from operations and corporate debt.
Marketing
We offer a diversified line of homes for first-time, move-up, active adult, luxury and multi-generational homebuyers in a variety of locations ranging from urban infill communities to suburban golf course communities. Our Everything’s Included® marketing program enables us to differentiate our homes from those of our competitors by including luxury items as standard features at competitive prices, while reducing construction and overhead costs through a simplified construction process, product standardization and volume purchasing. In addition, we include built in wireless capability, home automation and solar power in many of the homes we sell, which enhances our brand and improves our ability to generate traffic and sales.
We sell our homes primarily from models that we have designed and constructed. We employ new home consultants who are paid salaries, commissions or both to conduct on-site sales of our homes. We also sell homes through independent realtors. In response to COVID-19, we have made it possible for potential homebuyers to take virtual tours of model homes.
Our marketing strategy has increasingly involved advertising through digital channels including real estate listing sites, paid search, display advertising, social media and e-mail marketing, all of which drive traffic to our website, www.lennar.com. This has allowed us to attract more qualified and knowledgeable homebuyers and has helped us reduce our selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of home sales revenues. However, we also continue to advertise through more traditional media on a limited basis, including newspapers, radio advertisements and other local and regional publications and on billboards where appropriate. We tailor our marketing strategy and message based on the community being advertised and the customers being targeted, such as advertising our active adult communities in areas where prospective active adult homebuyers live or will potentially want to purchase.
Quality Service
We continually strive to improve homeowner customer satisfaction throughout the pre-sale, sale, construction, closing and post-closing periods. We strive to create a quality home buying experience for our customers through the participation of sales associates, on-site construction supervisors and customer care associates, all working in a team effort, as well as use of technology to simplify the homebuying and financing process. We believe this leads to enhanced customer retention and referrals. The quality of our homes is substantially affected by the efforts of on-site management and others engaged in the construction process, by the materials we use in particular homes, and by other similar factors.
We warrant our new homes against defective materials and workmanship for a minimum period of one year after the date of closing. Although we subcontract virtually all segments of construction to others and our contracts call for the subcontractors to repair or replace any deficient items related to their trades, we are primarily responsible to the homebuyers for the correction of any deficiencies.
Local Operating Structure and Centralized Management
We balance a local operating structure with centralized corporate level management. Our local operating structure consists of homebuilding divisions across the country, each of which is usually managed by a division president, a controller and personnel focused on land acquisition, entitlement and development, sales, construction, customer service and purchasing. This local operating structure gives our division presidents and their teams, who generally have significant experience in the homebuilding industry, and in most instances, in their particular markets, the flexibility to make local operating decisions, including land identification, entitlement and development, the management of inventory levels for our current sales volume, community development, home design, construction and marketing of our homes. We centralize at the corporate level decisions related to our overall strategy, acquisitions of land and businesses, risk management, financing, cash management and information systems.
Backlog
Backlog represents the number of homes under sales contracts. Homes are sold using sales contracts, which are generally accompanied by deposits. In some instances, purchasers are permitted to cancel sales contracts if they fail to qualify for financing or under certain other circumstances. We experienced a cancellation rate of 15% in 2020 and 16% in 2019. We do not recognize revenue on homes that are the subject of sales contracts until the sales are closed and title passes to the new homeowners.
3
Table of Contents

The backlog dollar value including unconsolidated entities at November 30, 2020 was $7.8 billion, compared to $6.3 billion at November 30, 2019. We expect that a substantial portion of all homes currently in backlog will be delivered in fiscal year 2021.
During fiscal year 2020, because of the concern about increasing labor and material costs, we, in many instances, deferred entering into contracts to sell homes and committing to the sales price until the costs of the homes were determined, which usually was shortly before construction began. This had the effect of reducing the number of homes subject to sales contracts at any particular time.
Homebuilding Investments in Unconsolidated Entities
We create and participate in joint ventures that acquire and develop land for our homebuilding operations, for sale to third parties or for use in the ventures' own homebuilding operations. Through these joint ventures, we reduce the amount we invest in potential future homesites, thereby reducing risks associated with land acquisitions and improving the return on our investments, and, in some instances, we obtain access to land to which we could not otherwise have obtained access or could not have obtained access on as favorable terms. As of November 30, 2020 and 2019, we had equity investments in 38 and 36 active homebuilding and land unconsolidated entities, respectively, in which we were participating, and our maximum recourse debt exposure related to Homebuilding unconsolidated joint ventures was $4.9 million and $10.8 million, respectively. This is discussed in greater detail in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.
FivePoint - We own an approximately 40% interest in FivePoint, which is a publicly traded developer of three large master planned mixed-use developments in California (Newhall Ranch, Great Park Neighborhoods, and the San Francisco Shipyard and Candlestick Point). We sometimes purchase properties from FivePoint for use in our homebuilding operations. Our Executive Chairman is a director of FivePoint. As of November 30, 2020, the carrying amount of our investment in FivePoint was $392.1 million.
Solar Business
Our solar business is focused on providing homeowners the ability to purchase or lease solar power systems that generate much of a home's annual expected energy needs. In fiscal 2020, our solar business operated in California, Colorado, Florida, Maryland, Nevada, South Carolina, and Texas.
Financial Services Operations
Residential Mortgage Financing
We offer conforming conventional, FHA-insured and VA-guaranteed residential mortgage loan products and other home mortgage products primarily to buyers of our homes through our financial services subsidiary, Lennar Mortgage (formerly Eagle Home Mortgage, LLC), from locations in most of the states in which we have homebuilding operations. In fiscal year 2020, our financial services subsidiaries provided loans to 80% of our homebuyers who obtained mortgage financing in areas where we offered services. Because of the availability of mortgage loans from our financial services subsidiaries, as well as from independent mortgage lenders, we believe almost all creditworthy potential purchasers of our homes have access to financing.
During fiscal year 2020, we originated approximately 40,000 residential mortgage loans totaling $12.9 billion, compared to 34,800 residential mortgage loans totaling $10.9 billion during fiscal year 2019. Substantially all of the residential mortgage loans we originate are sold within a short period in the secondary mortgage market, a majority of them on a servicing released, non-recourse basis. After the loans are sold, we retain potential liability for claims by purchasers that we breached certain limited industry-standard representations and warranties in the loan sale agreements. Occasional claims of this type are a normal incident of loan securitization activities. We do not believe that the ultimate resolution of these claims will have a material adverse effect on our business or financial position.
We finance our mortgage loan activities with borrowings under our financial services warehouse facilities or from our operating funds. At November 30, 2020, Financial Services had four warehouse residential facilities maturing at various dates through fiscal 2021 with a total maximum borrowing capacity of $1.8 billion including an uncommitted amount of $700 million. We expect the facilities to be renewed or replaced with other facilities when they mature. If they are not renewed or replaced, we would have to find other sources of funding our mortgage originations, which might include our own funds. We have a corporate risk management policy under which we hedge our interest rate risk on rate-locked loan commitments and loans held-for-sale to mitigate exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
We have been using new technology to automate portions of our mortgage loan origination process. This has reduced our origination costs from approximately $8,400 and $5,600 per loan in the fourth quarters of 2018 and 2019, respectively, to approximately $5,500 per loan in the fourth quarter of 2020. This new technology has also made the mortgage financing
4
Table of Contents

process easier for homebuyers and improved the customer experience. In response to COVID-19, this new technology has also enabled us to increase the number of digital closings, with digital document signing and where possible digital notarization.
Title, Insurance and Closing Services
During 2020, we provided title insurance and closing services to our homebuyers and others in approximately 61,100 real estate transactions in 34 states, through Lennar Title (formerly CalAtlantic Title) compared to approximately 59,700 real estate transactions during 2019.
Commercial Mortgage Origination
Our LMF Commercial subsidiary originates and sells into securitizations first mortgage loans, which are secured by income producing commercial properties. LMF Commercial also originates floating rate loans secured by commercial real estate properties, many of which are in transition, undergoing lease-up, sell-out, renovation or repositioning. In order to finance LMF Commercial lending activities, as of November 30, 2020, LMF Commercial had five warehouse repurchase financing agreements maturing between December 2020 and December 2021 with commitments totaling $800 million, which includes $50 million for floating rate loans.
Multifamily Operations
We have been actively involved, primarily through unconsolidated entities, in the development, construction and property management of multifamily rental properties. Our Multifamily segment focuses on developing a geographically diversified portfolio of institutional quality multifamily rental properties in select U.S. markets.
Our Multifamily segment is one of the largest developers of apartment communities across the country. At November 30, 2020, it had interests in 65 communities with development costs of approximately $7.8 billion, of which 34 communities were completed and operating, seven communities were partially completed and leasing, 21 communities were under construction and the remaining communities were owned by the joint ventures. As of November 30, 2020, our Multifamily segment also had a pipeline of potential future projects, which were under contract or had letters of intent, totaling approximately $4.7 billion in anticipated development costs across a number of states that will be developed primarily by unconsolidated entities. Our Multifamily segment had equity investments in 22 and 19 unconsolidated entities (including the Multifamily Ventures, described below) as of November 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Originally, our Multifamily segment focused on building multifamily properties and selling them shortly after they were completed. However, more recently we have focused on creating, participating in and managing ventures that build multifamily properties with the intention of retaining them after they are completed. Our current ventures, Lennar Multifamily Venture Fund I LP ("LMV I") and Lennar Multifamily Venture Fund II LP ("LMV II"), are both long-term multifamily development investment vehicles involved in the development, construction and property management of class-A multifamily assets.
For additional information about our investments in and relationships with unconsolidated entities, see Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 of this Report.
Lennar Other
Strategic Technology Investments
We strategically invest in technology initiatives that, among other things, help us enhance the homebuying experience, reduce our SG&A expenses and stay at the forefront of homebuilding innovation. Our strategic investments include, among others, Opendoor, a company that uses technology to streamline the home buying and selling process; Blend, a company that provides a digital mortgage application platform; Hippo Analytics, a company that provides home insurance in a more efficient and effective way; States Title, a company that built a predictive analytics platform for title insurers; and Notarize, a company that provides online notarizations. At November 30, 2020, our investment in strategic technology ventures was $324.0 million, which was included in our Lennar Other and Financial Services segments. In December 2020, one of our strategic investments, Opendoor, began trading on the Nasdaq stock market for which we expect to record a significant unrealized gain in the first quarter of fiscal 2021.
Rialto Fund Investments
Until November 30, 2018, we had a group of subsidiaries, including Rialto Capital Management, LLC, that primarily managed real estate related investment funds and other real estate related investment vehicles. We sold the Rialto Management Group on November 30, 2018, however, we retained the right to receive carried interest distributions from some of the funds and other investment vehicles it manages. We also retained limited partner investments in Rialto funds and investment vehicles
5
Table of Contents

that totaled $190.4 million as of November 30, 2020, and are committed to invest as much as an additional $3.3 million in Rialto funds.
Seasonality
We historically have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, variability in quarterly results. Our homebuilding business is seasonal in nature and generally reflects higher levels of new home order activity in our second and third fiscal quarters and increased deliveries in the second half of our fiscal year. However, a variety of factors can alter seasonal patterns. In 2020, the shutdown of large portions of our national economy in March and April due to the COVID-19 pandemic temporarily reduced our home sales, and therefore altered our normal seasonal pattern.
Competition
The residential homebuilding industry is highly competitive. In each of the market regions where we operate, we compete for homebuyers with numerous national, regional and local homebuilders, as well as with resales of existing homes and with the rental housing market. We compete for homebuyers on the basis of a number of interrelated factors including location, price, reputation, amenities, design, quality and financing. In addition to competition for homebuyers, we also compete with other homebuilders for desirable properties, raw materials and access to reliable, skilled labor. We compete with a wide variety of property owners in our efforts to sell land to homebuilders and others. We believe we are competitive in the market regions where we operate primarily due to our:
•Everything’s Included® marketing program, which simplifies the home buying experience by including the most desirable features as standard items;
•Innovative home designs, such as our Next Gen® homes that provide both privacy and togetherness for multi-generational families or a home office to accommodate working from home;
•Inclusion of built-in Wi-Fi, solar power systems and advanced technology in many of our homes;
•Financial position as a result of our ability to finance land purchases and development activities with operating revenues and corporate level borrowing;
•Access to land, particularly in land-constrained markets;
•Pricing to current market conditions;
•Cost efficiencies realized through our national purchasing programs and production of value-engineered homes;
•Quality construction and home warranty programs, which are supported by a responsive customer care team; and
•Size and scale in leading markets.
Our residential financial services operations compete with other mortgage lenders, including national, regional and local mortgage bankers and brokers, banks, savings and loan associations, non-bank mortgage lenders and other financial institutions, in the origination and sale of residential mortgage loans. Principal competitive factors include interest rates and other features of mortgage loan products available to the consumer. We compete with other title insurance agencies and underwriters for closing services and title insurance. Principal competitive factors include service and price.
Our LMF Commercial subsidiary's commercial mortgage origination and sale business competes with a wide variety of banks and other lenders that offer small and mid-sized mortgage loans to commercial enterprises. Competition is based primarily on service, price and relationships with mortgage brokers and other referral sources. LMF Commercial is run by highly seasoned managers who have been originating and securitizing loans for over 28 years and can benefit from long-standing relationships with referral sources, as well as being able to leverage Lennar's infrastructure facilities for rapid market entrances and analysis. We believe these factors give LMF Commercial an advantage over many of the lenders with which it competes. Additionally, we believe access to Lennar's local homebuilding teams provides LMF Commercial with a distinct advantage in its evaluation of real estate assets.
Our multifamily operations compete with other multifamily apartment developers and operators, including REITs, across the United States. In addition, our multifamily operations compete in securing capital, partners and equity, and in securing tenants with the large supply of already existing rental apartments. Principal competitive factors include location, rental price and quality, and management of the apartment buildings.
Regulation
The residential communities and multifamily apartment developments that we build are subject to a large variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations relating to, among other things, zoning, construction permits or entitlements, construction materials, density, building design and property elevation, building codes and handling of waste. These include laws requiring the use of construction materials that reduce the need for energy-consuming heating and cooling systems. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change and often increase construction costs. For example, the
6
Table of Contents

California Energy Commission adopted a requirement that most newly built homes in California must have rooftop solar panels. In some instances, we must comply with laws that require commitments from us to provide roads and other offsite infrastructure, and may require them to be in place prior to the commencement of new construction. These laws and regulations are usually administered by counties and municipalities and may result in fees and assessments or building moratoriums. In addition, certain new development projects are subject to assessments for schools, parks, streets and highways and other public improvements, the costs of which can be substantial. Also, some states are attempting to make homebuilders responsible for violations of wage and other labor laws by their subcontractors.
Residential homebuilding and apartment development are also subject to a variety of local, state and federal statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. These environmental laws include such subjects as storm water and surface water management, soil, groundwater and wetlands protection, subsurface conditions and air quality protection and enhancement. Environmental laws may result in delays, may cause us to incur substantial compliance and other costs and may prohibit or severely restrict homebuilding activity in environmentally sensitive regions or areas.
Over the years, several cities and counties in which we have developments have submitted to voters "slow growth" initiatives and other ballot measures that could impact the affordability and availability of land suitable for residential development within those localities. Although many of these initiatives have been defeated, we believe that if similar initiatives were approved, residential construction by us and others within certain cities or counties could be seriously impacted.
In order to make it possible for some of our homebuyers to obtain FHA-insured or VA-guaranteed mortgages, we must construct the homes they buy in compliance with regulations promulgated by those agencies. Various states have statutory disclosure requirements relating to the marketing and sale of new homes. These disclosure requirements vary widely from state-to-state. In some states, we are required to be registered as a licensed contractor and comply with applicable rules and regulations. In various states, our new home consultants are required to be registered as licensed real estate agents and to adhere to the laws governing the practices of real estate agents.
Our mortgage and title subsidiaries must comply with applicable real estate, lending and insurance laws and regulations. The subsidiaries are licensed in the states in which they do business and must comply with laws and regulations in those states. These laws and regulations include provisions regarding capitalization, operating procedures, investments, lending and privacy disclosures, forms of policies and premiums. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains a number of requirements relating to mortgage lending and securitizations. These include, among others, minimum standards for lender practices, limitations on certain fees and a requirement that the originator of loans that are securitized retain a portion of the risk, either directly or by holding interests in the securitizations.
Several federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and ordinances, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ("FDCPA") and the Federal Trade Commission Act and comparable state statutes, regulate consumer debt collection activity. Although, for a variety of reasons, we may not be specifically subject to the FDCPA or to some state statutes that govern debt collectors, it is our policy to comply with applicable laws in our collection activities. To the extent that some or all of these laws apply to our collection activities, our failure to comply with such laws could have a material adverse effect on us. We are also subject to regulations promulgated by the Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regarding residential mortgage loans.
Human Capital
Our associates are our most valuable asset, and we are committed to building a workforce that supports each associate’s unique professional journey. We believe having an inclusive work environment, where everyone has a sense of belonging, not only drives engagement but fosters innovation, which is critical to driving growth. Our success starts and ends with having the best talent, and, as a result, we are focused on attracting, developing, engaging and retaining our associates. We understand the importance of balance, and offer associates a competitive and comprehensive benefits package, including paid parental leave and resources for whole-self well-being (physical, social, and financial).
We are committed to the health and safety of our associates and trade partners. During fiscal 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented additional safety protocols to protect our associates, trade partners and homebuyers, including protocols regarding social distancing, daily health checks and working remotely. Our experienced teams adapted quickly to the changes and have managed our business successfully during this challenging time. We are also committed to worker safety and regulatory compliance. Our worker safety metrics are measured and reviewed by our Board of Directors so we can ensure that we are successfully managing and improving our safety program.
Although we subcontract the land development and construction aspects of our homebuilding activities, we are highly dependent on our skilled employees for critical aspects of what we do. That includes senior executives who are responsible for our operational strategies and for approving significant land acquisitions and other major investments we make. It also includes the people who head our homebuilding divisions and non-homebuilding segments. And it includes the many people who are
7
Table of Contents

involved in design, construction oversight, marketing and other aspects of our homebuilding business and in carrying out our other activities.
At November 30, 2020, we employed 9,495 individuals of whom 7,309 were involved in the Homebuilding operations, 1,545 were involved in the Financial Services operations and 641 were involved in the Multifamily operations, compared to November 30, 2019, when we employed 10,106 individuals of whom 7,931 were involved in the Homebuilding operations, 1,556 were involved in the Financial Services operations and 619 were involved in the Multifamily operations. We do not have collective bargaining agreements relating to any of our associates. However, we subcontract many phases of our homebuilding operations and some of the subcontractors we use have employees who are represented by labor unions.
NYSE Certification
On April 8, 2020, we submitted our Annual CEO Certification to the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") in accordance with NYSE's listing standards. The certification was not qualified in any respect.
Available Information
This Report on Form 10-K and all other reports and amendments we file with or furnish to the SEC are publicly available free of charge on the investor relations section of the Lennar website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Our website is www.lennar.com. We caution you that the information on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.
