Labcorp® is a leading global life sciences company that provides vital information to help doctors, hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, researchers, and patients make clear and confident decisions. By leveraging its strong diagnostics and drug development capabilities, the Company provides insights and accelerates innovations to improve health and improve lives. With over 72,400 employees, the Company serves clients in more than 100 countries.
Through its Labcorp Diagnostics (Dx) and Labcorp Drug Development (DD) segments, the Company provides diagnostic, drug development, and technology-enabled solutions for more than 160 million patient encounters per year, or more than 3 million patients per week. The Company also supports clinical trial activity in approximately 100 countries through its industry-leading central laboratory, preclinical, and clinical development businesses.
The breadth of the Company's offerings has resulted in revenue growth of 23%, and operating income growth of 84%, from 2018 through 2020. The Company believes that its diversified service offerings across drug development and diagnostics also help to balance the impact of changes in the global economic and healthcare systems, and the influence of unplanned events such as the COVID-19 pandemic.
For the period ended December 31, 2020, the Company generated revenues of $13,978.5 million, diluted earnings per share of $15.88, and had a total operating cash flow of $2,135.3 million.
The Company believes that science, technology and innovation are behind its successes and are foundational to its future. The Company's commitment to leading with science and innovation enables it to improve the health and lives of people around the world.
Rebranding
In December 2020, the Company announced an evolution of its brand identity, to highlight the pivotal role the Company plays in healthcare and showcase the power of the Company’s combined diagnostic and drug development offerings through one powerful brand. As part of the rebranding, the Company introduced a new company logo and has begun associating its business unit brands with the Labcorp name. The Company’s drug development segment, formerly referred to as Covance Drug Development, became Covance by Labcorp for a transition period, and by mid-2021 is expected to transition to Labcorp Drug Development. The Company's diagnostics segment, formerly referred to as LabCorp Diagnostics, is transitioning to the Labcorp name and new logo during 2021.

Enterprise Strategy
Labcorp is positioned at the convergence of research and care delivery to enable more precise and individualized healthcare, bringing together world-class diagnostics and drug development capabilities.
The Company believes that it can continue to expand its role in the rapidly evolving healthcare environment by advancing the following strategic priorities:
1.Leveraging the Power of the Company’s Combined Capabilities
The combination of Dx’s and DD’s core capabilities and scientific and technological expertise uniquely enables the Company to create compelling solutions for clients. The Company’s combined strengths allow it to help biopharmaceutical and medical device partners design better clinical studies, execute those studies faster through enhanced patient recruitment, take greater advantage of virtual and hybrid study options, and satisfy post-market surveillance requirements. For example, the Company can advance companion and complementary diagnostics and other precision medicine innovations that match patients with targeted treatments based on genomics and other individual characteristics because of its experience, resources and data in both drug development and diagnostics. Through comprehensive integration of those capabilities, the Company has a unique opportunity to extend its position as a market leader in the development and commercialization of new therapies and tests, by providing data, insights, and answers for doctors, drug developers, and the public.
2. Advancing the Company's Leadership Position in Oncology
Oncology continues to receive significant investment in research and treatment, but despite decades of focus and research, it is still an area of great unmet medical need. The Company believes the diagnosis and treatment of cancer is expected to be the fastest-growing therapeutic area for the near future.
As oncology's standard of care trends towards the adoption of precision medicine, providers are relying on advanced testing to identify patients who will benefit from new, targeted treatments that are more effective, and usually have fewer side effects, than traditional treatments like chemotherapy. The Company is expanding its leadership through strategic partnerships in oncology testing, major customer wins in late-stage clinical trials, and the recruitment of leaders in the field to further build the
9
Index

Company's oncology team. In addition, the Company’s strong connections with patients, physicians, and health systems, along with its extensive data, are powerful tools to support the Company's leadership role in diagnosing and treating cancer and its goal of improving patient outcomes.
3. Integrating Artificial Intelligence, Data, Digitalization and Analytics Across the Company's Business
Advances in technology have impacted nearly every business, and healthcare more than most. By maximizing the use of technology, and in particular advances in artificial intelligence, data, digitalization, and analytics, the Company strives to improve operating efficiency and create new, differentiated products and services that the Company believes will help its customers and will deliver better care to patients.
Artificial intelligence helps the Company to better predict trends, such as where and when demand for certain tests is likely to change, which supports more efficient use of supplies, staffing adjustments, and the Company’s advanced logistics to route testing to the most appropriate laboratories to deliver results quickly. Artificial intelligence capabilities and advanced logistics have played an important role in the Company’s response to the demand for COVID-19 polymerase chain reaction (PCR) testing.
The Company creates, and has access to, significant volumes of data. By applying advanced analytics, the Company can help its customers improve their processes and reach better outcomes. The Company’s repository of test results help study sponsors assess patients' eligibility for clinical trials more quickly and accurately, enroll those patients faster, shorten the time needed for regulatory submission, and accelerate the availability of new medicines.
Digitalization is affecting every aspect of the Company’s business. For example, healthcare providers now have multiple ways to retrieve and analyze their patients' health data; MCOs have various tools to manage their membership; consumers can more readily access testing and their results to have more control over their care; and decentralized clinical trials can help remove barriers that have slowed or prevented studies from being conducted in the past. As the Company experienced in 2020, digitalization also allowed many of the Company’s employees to quickly shift from working in traditional offices to working remotely in response to COVID-19.
4. Putting Customers at the Center of All the Company Does
Labcorp serves a broad range of customers, including MCOs, biopharmaceutical, medical device and diagnostics companies, governmental agencies, physicians and other healthcare providers, hospitals and health systems, employers, patients and consumers, contract research organizations (CROs), and independent clinical laboratories. The Company prioritizes a consistent, coordinated focus across all aspects of the Company's operations, placing the customer at the center of its services, with the objective of becoming the customer's primary partner for solutions to their needs. Customer feedback, communication of best-practices and lessons learned, and robust employee training with respect to the needs of its customers are all methods that the Company employs to provide a top customer experience.
The introduction of the Company’s new branding is intended to send a clear signal of who the Company is, what it does, and how it is differentiated from its competitors. It is the Company's goal that the Labcorp brand represents a promise to its customers about how they will be treated, and the levels of service, quality, and innovation that the Company will deliver.
5. Evaluate and Execute on High-Growth Opportunities
The Company has a long history of disciplined use of capital to invest in the growth of the business. The Company has made significant investments in the deployment of new technologies through both licensing and internal research and development, strategic and fold-in acquisitions, and establishing collaborative partnerships with other leading companies and organizations that share the Company’s goals and expectations.
The Company continually evaluates its business and the broader healthcare and life sciences markets to proactively identify and assess:
•potential growth opportunities;
•business areas that might not support continued growth and should be revamped or divested;
•acquisition targets that meet its criteria for quality, value, and return on investment;
•new products that would successfully integrate with or extend the Company’s offerings; and
•a balanced formula for capital allocation.
Through continued focus on these priorities, the Company expects to be in the optimal position to make tough, disciplined choices that maximize shareholder value, better protect the Company from market fluctuations and outside impacts, and fuel significant, profitable revenue growth.


10
Index

COVID-19 Response
The Company has been intensely focused on supporting the fight against COVID-19 since the earliest stages of the pandemic.
Diagnostic Testing and Clinical Trial Leadership
In tandem with the first confirmed cases, the Company began preparations to be able to offer diagnostic testing to identify cases of COVID-19, working closely with diagnostic manufacturers and suppliers, and with regulators and public health authorities.
On March 5, 2020, the Company became the first commercial laboratory in the U.S. to launch PCR testing for COVID-19, and the Company received Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on March 16, 2020. That was the first of a steady series of innovations introduced by the Company to rapidly expand COVID-19 test capacity, options, access, and efficiency. These COVID-19 innovations include:

•the first FDA EUA for an at-home collection kit on its Pixel by Labcorp® platform;
•the first digital COVID-19 service, which is also available through healthcare providers from the Company’s Labcorp at Home offering;
•early participation in COVID-19 research projects in collaboration with partners that included Adaptive Biotechnologies, Microsoft, and Pacific Biosciences;
•introduction of new test options to increase test capacity, throughput, and efficiency to maximize use of supplies, including the introduction of a new method to extract RNA from samples using heat and technology; and
•the increased use of robotics and automation in the PCR testing process.
The Company has steadily increased its COVID-19 test capacity, from several thousand PCR tests per day in early March to 275,000 per day by the end of 2020. The Company performed over 31 million PCR tests and nearly 4 million antibody tests in 2020.
As a result, the Company developed an expertise and understanding of COVID-19 that led to it becoming a leader in supporting clinical trials of potential treatments and vaccines for the virus. By the end of 2020, the Company had won approximately 440 COVID-19 trial and study opportunities, from small nonclinical programs to late-stage clinical trials.
Base Business Normalization
In the initial months of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company experienced a significant drop in its non-COVID-19 business (Base Business) as patients avoided routine medical care and most elective and non-emergency procedures were postponed. This decline, coupled with the suspension of most global clinical trial activity resulted in a negative impact to the Company's Base Business in the latter part of the first quarter and initial part of the second quarter of 2020. By the end of the second quarter of 2020, however, the Company experienced a steady recovery in its Base Business, which continued through the third quarter of 2020. During the fourth quarter, the Dx Base Business volume recovery flattened with volumes below prior year in the high single digits. Throughout 2020, the Company's PCR and antibody COVID-19 testing (COVID-19 Testing) has helped to more than offset the pressure experienced in the Base Business.
COVID-19 Outlook
COVID-19 has had, and continues to have, an extensive impact on the global health and economic environments. The Company is closely monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on all aspects of the business, given the continued unpredictability and the corresponding government restrictions and customer behavior.
While the Company anticipates that COVID-19 will continue to have a significant impact on its business through 2021 and potentially beyond, the Company expects that the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines will likely lead to a gradual decline in the demand for COVID-19 Testing. As a result, COVID-19 Testing demand is not predicted to match 2020 levels. However, the Company believes that other diagnostic testing should continue to expand, and both COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 drug development activity is expected to grow in 2021.
Capital Allocation
The Company believes it has a strong track record of deploying capital to investments that enhance the Company's business and return capital to shareholders.
During 2020, the Company invested $267.6 million in strategic business acquisitions. The acquisitions have expanded the Company’s service offerings, expanded its customer and revenue mix, and strengthened and broadened the scope of its geographic presence. The Company continues to evaluate acquisition opportunities that leverage the Company’s core
11
Index

competencies, complement existing scientific and technological capabilities, increase the Company’s presence in key geographic, therapeutic and strategic areas, and meet or exceed the Company’s financial criteria.
During 2020, the Company purchased 0.6 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $178.85 for a total cost of $100.0 million. After making these purchases in the first quarter, the Company temporarily suspended its share repurchase program as a part of the fiscal measures it took in response to the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic, to preserve liquidity and financial flexibility. The Company reinstated its share repurchase program in the fourth quarter but made no additional purchases in 2020. At the end of 2020, the Company had a remaining authorization with no expiration date to purchase an additional $800.0 million of Company common stock.
During 2020, capital expenditures were $381.7 million and the Company also repaid $412.2 million of its Senior Notes. The Company expects capital expenditures in 2021 to be approximately 4.0% of revenues, primarily in connection with projects to support growth in the Company's core businesses, facility expansion and updates, projects related to both ongoing and new LaunchPad initiatives, and further acquisition integration initiatives.
The Company will continue to evaluate all opportunities for strategic deployment of capital in light of market conditions.
Seasonality and External Factors
The Company experiences seasonality across its business. For example, testing volume generally declines during the year-end holiday period and other major holidays and can also decline due to inclement weather or natural disasters. Declines in testing volume reduce revenues, operating margins and cash flows. Operations are also impacted by changes in the global economy, exchange rate fluctuations, political and regulatory changes, the progress of ongoing studies and the startup of new studies, as well as the level of expenditures made by the biopharmaceutical industry in R&D. In 2020, as discussed in more detail elsewhere in Item 1, COVID-19 had significant impact on the Company. This impact included both the effect of the Company’s response to the virus through its testing and drug development services and the effect of COVID-19 on the global economy and how that affected demand for the Company’s non-COVID-19 services.
In 2020, approximately 10.7% of the Company's revenues were billed in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, with the Swiss franc, British pound, Canadian dollar, and the euro representing the largest components of its currency exposure. Given the seasonality and changing economic factors impacting the business, comparison of the results for successive quarters may not accurately reflect trends or results for the full year.
Company Reporting
The Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports are made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of the Company’s website at www.labcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additionally, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC.
The matters discussed in this “Business” section should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements found in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report, which include additional financial information about the Company. This Annual Report includes forward-looking statements that involve risks or uncertainties. The Company’s results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report and elsewhere. For more information about forward-looking statements, see “Forward-Looking Statements” included prior to Part I in this Annual Report.
The Company's Business
The Company experienced growth across all key financial metrics in 2020.
											
 	Years Ended December 31,
 	2020		2019
Revenues	$	13,978.5 			$	11,554.8 	
Gross profit	$	4,952.8 			$	3,252.5 	
Operating income	$	2,445.4 			$	1,330.2 	
Net earnings attributable to Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings	$	1,556.1 			$	823.8 	
Cash flows from operating activities	$	2,135.3 			$	1,444.7 	
Basic earnings per common share	$	15.99 			$	8.42 	
Diluted earnings per common share	$	15.88 			$	8.35 	
12
Index

The Company reports its business in two segments, Dx and DD. In 2020, Dx and DD contributed 65% and 35%, respectively, of revenues to the Company, and in 2019 contributed 60% and 40%, respectively. Nearly all of Dx’s revenues are generated in the U.S., with a smaller portion in Canada and a relatively small amount in the rest of the world. DD’s revenues are nearly evenly split between the U.S. and the rest of the world, with approximately 49% derived from the U.S. and approximately 51% from other countries. Although this allocation of revenues provides some protection from economic shifts in any one country, it is still heavily tilted towards the U.S. As a result, the Company continues to actively explore new and expanded business opportunities outside the U.S. to further diversify its sources of revenues. The Company's revenues by segment payers/customer groups and by geography for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are as follows:
																																																																							
	For the Year Ended
December 31, 2020		For the Year Ended
December 31, 2019		For the Year Ended
December 31, 2018
	North America		Europe		Other		Total		North America		Europe		Other		Total		North America		Europe		Other		Total
Payer/Customer																							
Dx																							
   Clients	20 	%		— 	%		— 	%		20 	%		17 	%		— 	%		— 	%		17 	%		18 	%		— 	%		— 	%		18 	%
   Patients	6 	%		— 	%		— 	%		6 	%		8 	%		— 	%		— 	%		8 	%		8 	%		— 	%		— 	%		8 	%
   Medicare and Medicaid	7 	%		— 	%		— 	%		7 	%		8 	%		— 	%		— 	%		8 	%		9 	%		— 	%		— 	%		9 	%
   Third-party	32 	%		— 	%		— 	%		32 	%		27 	%		— 	%		— 	%		27 	%		27 	%		— 	%		— 	%		27 	%
Total Dx revenues by payer	65 	%		— 	%		— 	%		65 	%		60 	%		— 	%		— 	%		60 	%		62 	%		— 	%		— 	%		62 	%
																							
DD																							
   Biopharmaceutical and medical device companies	17 	%		11 	%		7 	%		35 	%		21 	%		12 	%		7 	%		40 	%		19 	%		12 	%		7 	%		38 	%
																							
Total revenues	82 	%		11 	%		7 	%		100 	%		81 	%		12 	%		7 	%		100 	%		81 	%		12 	%		7 	%		100 	%


Dx Segment
During 2020, the Dx segment generated $9,253.4 million in total revenues and $2,634.9 million in operating income, resulting in an operating margin of 28.5%.
											
Dollars in millions	Year Ended December 31,
 	2020		2019
Revenues	$	9,253.4 			$	7,000.1 	
Operating income	$	2,634.9 			$	1,086.0 	
Dx is an independent clinical laboratory business. It offers a comprehensive menu of frequently requested and specialty testing through an integrated network of primary and specialty laboratories across the U.S. This network is supported by a sophisticated information technology system, with more than 75,000 electronic interfaces to deliver test results, nimble and efficient logistics, and local labs offering rapid response testing.
Dx also provides patient access points, strategically and conveniently located throughout the U.S., including nearly 2,000 patient service centers (PSCs) operated by Dx and more than 6,000 in-office phlebotomists who are located in customer offices and facilities. Although testing for healthcare purposes and customers who provide healthcare services represents the most significant portion of the clinical laboratory industry, clinical laboratories also perform testing for other purposes and customers, including employment and occupational testing, DNA testing to determine parentage and to assist in immigration eligibility determinations, environmental testing, wellness testing, toxicology testing, pain management testing, and medical drug monitoring. Dx offers an expansive test menu including a wide range of clinical, anatomic pathology, genetic and genomic tests, and regularly adds new tests and improves the methodology of existing tests to enhance patient care. Dx also offers consumer-initiated wellness testing available online through its Pixel by Labcorp® platform, which saw growth and increased consumer awareness in 2020 as a result of offering the first at-home collection kit for COVID-19 PCR testing to receive an EUA from the FDA and the first to receive an EUA for retail availability without a prescription. The COVID-19 at-home collection kits are also available for healthcare providers to order for their patients through Labcorp at Home.
Through the dedicated effort of approximately 42,000 employees, Dx typically processes tests for more than 3 million patient encounters each week.
As part of an ongoing commitment to be an efficient and high value provider of laboratory services, beginning in 2015, Dx implemented a comprehensive business process improvement initiative, referred to as LaunchPad, to reengineer its systems and processes to create a sustainable and more efficient business model, and to improve the experience of all stakeholders. Dx achieved its goals for the initial phase of LaunchPad of delivering both short- and long-term savings, and implementing system
13
Index

and process improvements that are expected to continue to yield benefits for the foreseeable future. Dx has subsequently extended LaunchPad, adding new enterprise-wide projects and establishing the initiative as an ongoing continuous improvement program. Dx’s LaunchPad initiative is currently on track to deliver approximately $200.0 million in net savings for the period of late 2018 through the end of 2021, while incurring approximately $40.0 million in one-time implementation costs.
The Dx business can be categorized into the following components:
					
Service	Key Features
Testing Operations and Productivity	
•Network of PSCs offering specimen selection services
•Comprehensive, nimble supply chain for transferring specimens across the entire life cycle of a patient sample
•1-2 day turnaround time for most test results, with the vast majority of results delivered electronically to healthcare providers
•Rigorous standard of quality - 27 regional/specialty labs hold ISO 15189 certification
Testing and Related Services	
•Standard Testing Services - frequently-ordered tests used in regular patient care include blood chemistry analyses, urinalyses, blood cell counts, thyroid tests, PAP tests, hemoglobin A1C, prostate-specific antigen (PSA), tests for sexually transmitted diseases (e.g. chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomoniasis and human immunodeficiency (HIV), and hepatitis C (HCV)), vitamin D, microbiology cultures and procedures, and alcohol and other substance-abuse tests
•Specialty Testing Services - industry leader in gene-based and esoteric testing; advanced tests target specific diseases and use new technologies including anatomic pathology/oncology, cardiovascular disease, coagulation, diagnostic genetics, endocrinology, infectious disease, women's health, pharmacogenetics, parentage and donor testing, occupational testing services, medical drug monitoring services, chronic disease programs, and kidney stone prevention
•Dx offers a range of health and wellness services to employers and MCOs, including health fairs, on-site and at-home testing, vaccinations and health screenings
Development of New Tests	
•Approximately 100 new tests launched in 2020
•Active diagnostics and therpeutics research division: Nearly 700 studies, articles, and presentations produced in 2020
•Continuous investing, internally and externally, in new testing technologies and advanced testing capabilities
Development of New Tests	
A range of services and support using proprietary technologies to improve the customer and patient experience and provide convenient access to data and analytics, including:
•More than 6 million enhanced clinical decision support (CDS) reports delivered to physicians and health systems
•Online and mobile applications allowing patients to check test results, schedule appointments and manage their accounts
•Patient self-service apps for scheduling PSC visits, checking in upon arrival, and completing documentation, expediting and improving the patient experience
•Online applications for MCOs and accountable care organizations (ACOs) to obtain test results and quality data
Effect of U.S. Market Changes on the Clinical Laboratory Business
The delivery of, and reimbursement for, healthcare continues to change in the U.S., impacting all stakeholders, including the clinical laboratory business. Medicare (which principally serves patients who are 65 and older), Medicaid (which principally serves low-income patients) and insurers have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. Measures to regulate healthcare delivery in general and clinical laboratories in particular have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry by imposing new, increasingly complex regulatory and administrative requirements. The government also has continued to adjust the Medicare and Medicaid fee schedules at the national and local level, and Dx believes that pressure to reduce government reimbursement will continue.
Fees for most laboratory services reimbursed by Medicare are established in the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (CLFS) and fees for other testing reimbursed by Medicare, primarily related to pathology, are covered by the Physician Fee Schedule (PFS). During 2020, approximately 8.8% of Dx’s revenue was reimbursed under the CLFS (11.7% in 2019), and approximately 0.4% was reimbursed under the PFS (0.6% in 2019). Over the past several years, Dx has experienced governmental reimbursement reductions as a direct result of several Congressional acts and regulatory initiatives, the most significant of which was PAMA. PAMA, which became law on April 1, 2014, and which went into effect on January 1, 2018, resulted in a
14
Index

net reduction in reimbursement revenue of approximately $72.0 million in 2020 from all payers affected by the CLFS (approximately $107.0 million in 2019). These laws include provisions designed to control healthcare expenses reimbursed by government programs through a combination of reductions to fee schedules, incentives to physicians to participate in alternative payment models such as risk-sharing, and new methods to establish and adjust fees.
In 2020, Dx realized a net reduction of approximately $0.5 million in PFS revenue, driven by reductions in reimbursement for flow cytometry procedures ($1.9 million in 2019). In 2020, Dx realized an increase of approximately $10.1 million in aggregate Medicare reimbursement associated with the suspension of sequestration through December of 2020 as a result of provisions included in the CARES Act. In 2021, Dx anticipates it will realize increases of approximately $0.3 million in PFS revenue and $4.1 million in aggregate Medicare reimbursement associated with the extended suspension of sequestration through March 2021 as a result of provisions included in the Omnibus Appropriations and Coronavirus Relief Package.
Beginning in 2018, under PAMA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) set the CLFS using the weighted median of reported private payer prices paid to certain laboratories that receive a majority of their Medicare revenue from the CLFS and PFS and that bill Medicare under their own National Provider Identifier (NPI). Applicable labs, including Dx, were required to begin reporting their test-specific private payer payment amounts to CMS during the first quarter of 2017. CMS used that private market data to calculate weighted median prices for each test (based on applicable current procedural technology (CPT) codes) to represent the new CLFS rates beginning in 2018, subject to certain phase-in limits. For 2018-2020, a test price could not be reduced by more than 10.0% per year. As a result of provisions included within the CARES Act, passed by Congress in 2020, PAMA rate reductions for 2021 have been suspended, and therefore the Company will not experience any incremental reimbursement rate impact due to PAMA in 2021.
For 2022-2024, a test price cannot be reduced by more than 15.0% per year. The process of data reporting and repricing will be repeated every three years for Clinical Diagnostic Laboratory Tests (CDLTs) beginning in 2022. Under current law, as revised in the CARES Act, the next data reporting period for CDLTs (based on data collected in 2019) will occur during the first quarter of 2022, and new CLFS rates for CDLTs will be established based on that data beginning in 2023, subject to the previously described phase-in limits. The subsequent data reporting period for CDLTs (based on data collected in 2023) will occur during the first quarter of 2025, and new CLFS rates for CDLTs will be established based on that data beginning in 2026. CLFS rates for 2025 and subsequent periods will not be subject to phase-in limits. CLFS rates for Advanced Diagnostic Laboratory Tests will be updated annually.
The American Clinical Laboratory Association (ACLA) has filed a federal civil action challenging the legal basis for the data collection methodology CMS used to derive the data from which the median prices were calculated. Since the initial data collection, CMS has revised its PAMA regulations to increase the number of hospital outreach labs that will be required to report private market data in future collections. Reports by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) and the HHS Office of Inspector General (OIG) on PAMA implementation have identified certain instances of actual or potential increased Medicare expenditures under PAMA that could result in further efforts to amend PAMA by Congress.
ACLA continues to work with Congress on potential legislative reform of PAMA, which if adopted could reduce the negative impact of PAMA as currently implemented by CMS. Under the Laboratory Access for Beneficiaries (LAB) Act, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission is required to conduct a study and make recommendations to Congress on ways to improve data collection, reporting, and rate setting under PAMA to achieve, in a less burdensome manner, CLFS rates that accurately and fairly reflect private market rates. The Company supports the ongoing efforts to prevent or lessen the negative impact of the changes to the CLFS pursuant to PAMA, and the full impact of those efforts, and what the long-term effect will be on the CLFS rates is not yet known.
Further healthcare reform could occur in 2021, including changes to the ACA and Medicare reform, initiatives to address surprise billing and increased price transparency, as well as administrative requirements that may continue to affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services in ways that are currently unpredictable.
In addition, market-based changes have affected and will continue to affect the clinical laboratory business. Reimbursement from commercial payers for diagnostic testing may shift away from traditional, fee-for-service models to alternatives, including value-based, bundled pay-for-performance, and other risk-sharing payment models. The growth of the managed care sector and consolidation of MCOs present various challenges and opportunities to Dx and other clinical laboratories.
The Company serves many MCOs. These organizations have different contracting philosophies, which are influenced by the design of their products. Some MCOs contract with a limited number of clinical laboratories and engage in direct negotiation of rates. Other MCOs adopt broader networks with generally uniform fee structures for participating clinical laboratories. In some cases, those fee structures are specific to independent clinical laboratories, while the fees paid to hospital-based and physician-office laboratories may be different, and are typically higher. MCOs may also offer Managed Medicare or
15
Index

Managed Medicaid plans. In addition, some MCOs use capitation rates to fix the cost of laboratory testing services for their enrollees. Under a capitated reimbursement arrangement, the clinical laboratory receives a per-member, per-month payment for an agreed upon menu of laboratory tests provided to MCO members during the month, regardless of the number of tests performed. For the year ended December 31, 2020, capitated contracts with MCOs accounted for approximately $319.0 million, or 3.4%, of Dx's revenues. Dx's ability to attract and retain MCO customers has become even more important as the impact of various healthcare reform initiatives continues, including expanded health insurance exchanges and ACOs.
In addition to reductions in test reimbursement, the Company also anticipates potential declines in test volumes as a result of increased controls over the utilization of laboratory services by Medicare, Medicaid, and other third-party payers, particularly MCOs. MCOs are implementing, directly or through third parties, various types of laboratory benefit management programs, which may include lab networks, utilization management tools (such as prior authorization and/or prior notification), and claims edits, which impact coverage and reimbursement of clinical laboratory tests. Some of these programs address clinical laboratory testing broadly, while others are focused on certain types of testing, including molecular, genetic and toxicology testing. In addition, continued movement by patients into consumer-driven health plans may have an impact on the utilization of laboratory testing.
Despite the overall negative market changes regarding reimbursement discussed above, Dx believes that the volume of clinical laboratory testing is positively influenced by several factors, including the expansion of Medicaid, managed care, and private insurance exchanges. In addition, Dx believes that increased knowledge of the human genome and continued innovation in laboratory medicine will continue to foster greater appreciation of the value of gene-based diagnostic assays. Additional factors that may lead to future volume growth include an increase in the number and types of tests that are readily available (due to advances in technology and increased cost efficiencies) for the diagnosis of disease, and the general aging of the U.S. population. Dx also believes that it and other large, independent clinical laboratory testing companies will be able to increase their share of the overall clinical laboratory testing market due to a number of market factors, primarily related to a continued drive to improve outcomes and reduce costs across the healthcare system. Dx believes that its enhanced and growing esoteric menu of tests, leading position with companion diagnostics, broad geographic footprint, and operating efficiency provide a strong platform for growth.
DD Segment
During 2020, the DD segment generated $4,877.7 million in total revenue and $37.3 million in operating income, resulting in an operating margin of 0.8%.
											
Dollars in millions	Year Ended December 31,
 	2020		2019
Revenues	$	4,877.7 			$	4,578.1 	
Operating income	$	37.3 			$	411.5 	
DD provides end-to-end drug development, medical device and companion diagnostic development solutions from early-stage research to clinical development and commercial market access. Its customers are comprised of biopharmaceutical, medical device, and diagnostic companies across the world. With more than 28,000 employees worldwide and a global network of operations, DD offers deep expertise in early development and clinical trials in each therapeutic area. DD collaborated on 87% of the novel drugs approved by the U.S. FDA in 2020, including 86% of the novel oncology drugs and 88% of the rare and orphan disease drugs. Through its industry-leading central laboratory business it supports clinical trial activity in approximately 100 countries. In late 2018, the Company commenced a series of LaunchPad projects focused on DD, which delivered in excess of $150.0 million of net savings through 2020.

16
Index

					
Service	Key Features
Preclinical Services	
•Lead optimization: connects early discovery activities to regulated pre-clinical studies
•Analytical services: bioanalytical testing services offering appropriate dose and frequency of drug administration
•Safety assessment: general, genetic, and immunotoxicology services; nonclinical pathology; safety pharmacology services; preclinical medical device services; respiratory services; and developmental and reproductive toxicology (DART) studies
•Chemistry manufacturing services: robust, cost-effective solutions in the areas of safety, identity, strength, quality, and purity assessments for biologics
•Early phase development solutions: focused, multidisciplinary teams of experts that craft integrated solutions to identify and develop lead drug candidates and reduce development challenges
•Crop protection and chemical testing: Consulting services for chemical manufacturers and other firms engaged in the development of modern crop protection technology
Central Laboratory Services	
•Clinical laboratory services for individuals participating in clinical studies
•Provided to biopharmaceutical customers through its global network of central laboratories in the U.S., Europe, and Asia
•Operates world's largest automated clinical trial sample collection kit production line that enables kits to be produced with 5.5 sigma precision
•Seven ISO 15189-certified laboratories
•Collaborated with more than 60 clients on more than 180 companion diagnostic projects in 2020
Clinical Development and Commercialization Services	
•Comprehensive range of services including the full service delivery of Phase I through IV clinical studies, along with a wide offering of functional service provider solutions
•Dedicated group experienced in conduct of trials for medical devices and diagnostics to provide services for expanding market in medical devices
•Leader in clinical pharmacology
•Wide range of commercialization solutions including life cycle management and post-approval studies
•Market access solutions
Technology Solutions	
Proprietary digital tools and services providing customer with greater access to key insights and results, as well as improved trial management, enhanced transparency, quality, and speed of clinical trials, that results in reduced costs and increased market potential for customers:
•Patient-facing software applications supporting virtual, hybrid, and traditional trials
•Metrics and benchmarking applications for trial performance monitoring and optimization
•Award-winning informatics software suite for risk-based quality management across clinical trials
•Patient randomization and Clinical Supply Management

Human Capital
The purpose-driven mission of the Company is “improving health and improving lives.” Given the nature of the Company's global life sciences business, the Company's employees are critical to its success. It takes the efforts and focus of all of the Company's specialized and highly skilled employees to deliver the power of the combined Dx and DD segments to patients and customers throughout the world. The COVID-19 pandemic during 2020 provided unique challenges to the Company, and its employees were paramount to the Company's ability to meet the increasing needs of patients and customers.
Workforce Demographics
The Company's future success is dependent on its continued capabilities to recruit, develop, and retain a specialized and highly skilled global workforce, and the Company believes that it has good working relationships with its employees. The Company's 72,400 employees are globally dispersed, with 77% in the U.S. and Canada, 10% in the Asia region, 13% in the EMEA region, and less than 1% in the Latin American region. The Company's workforce is 61% in the Dx segment and 39% in the DD segment, with 90% full-time, and 10% part-time. Approximately 3.6% of the Company's global workforce is employed under a collective bargaining agreement. To manage fluctuations in volume and other business demands, the Company uses contingent labor to supplement its workforce by approximately 10%.
Throughout the pandemic, a significant portion of the Company's employees have been working diligently to serve patients and customers. To meet the increased demands of the pandemic, the Company increased its global workforce by 12.5% during
17
Index

2020. To promote the safety and welfare of its employees, the Company transitioned those employees who do not work with patients, animals, in labs or logistics, to remote working.
Diversity and Inclusion
The Company has a diverse workforce with a broad range of unique experiences and talents. The Company believes that the diversity of its employees and its inclusive programs contribute to a healthy, productive, and respectful work environment.
Workforce Diversity Profile:
United States: Gender and Ethnicity
																										
U.S. Employees	Male	Female	White	Total Non White	Black	Hispanic	Asian	Other
Executive/Managerial	40%	60%	70%	30%	13%	6 	%	9 	%	2%
Professional and Sales	34%	66%	62%	38%	14%	7%	14%	3%
Technician/Admin/Operatives	24%	76%	45%	55%	29%	14%	8%	4%
Totals	29%	71%	52%	48%	23%	12%	10 	%	3%

Total U.S. headcount on payroll as of 12/31/20, excluding casual employees and event workers employed by Labcorp Staffing Solutions.

Global: Gender
lh-20201231_g1.jpglh-20201231_g2.jpg
Total U.S. headcount on payroll as of 12/31/20, excluding casual employees and event workers employed by Labcorp Staffing Solutions.
The social unrest and unique impact of the pandemic around the world in 2020 provided the Company an opportunity to refocus efforts to further improve its diversity profile for the benefit of employees, patients, and customers. The Company appointed a new Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer (CDIO), who reports dually to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO). The CDIO also provides periodic reports to the Compensation and Human Capital Committee of the Board of Directors.
The Company’s key diversity and inclusion priorities going forward include: empowering inclusive leadership, developing and sustaining a diverse talent pipeline, and creating an environment for engagement across the Company and in its communities. The Company's leadership is engaging with its six employee resource groups with 50 chapters around the world, to drive these diversity and inclusion priorities.
In 2021, the Company was recognized for the fourth consecutive year as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ Equality with a perfect score from Human Rights Campaign's Corporate Equality Index, the nation's premier benchmarking survey and report on corporate policies and practices related to LGBTQ workplace equality. The Company was also named to FORTUNE® magazine's 2021 List of World's Most Admired Companies, making the annual list for the third time, as well as the 2020 List of World's Best Employers and as one of Forbes' 2020 List of the Best Employers for New Graduates.
Compensation and Benefits
As the Company's business becomes increasingly complex, global, mobile, and technology-enabled, it recognizes the importance of having compensation and benefits programs that provide sufficient flexibility to attract and retain the specialized and skilled talent needed to move the business forward. The Company continually monitors market activity and employee movement to maintain competitiveness in a dynamic life sciences industry.
18
Index

During the pandemic, the Company has taken steps to protect our competitive positioning with a focus on front line workers, given their on-premises direct interaction with patients and the handling of specimens and results throughout the supply chain and operations. Although the Company initially suspended discretionary payments, such as the annual merit adjustments and U.S. 401K company contributions, in July 2020, as business improved, the Company retroactively reinstated both programs, returning over $100 million back to our employees globally. In addition, during 2020, the company provided over $50 million in discretionary incentives and awards to our employees globally to thank and reward them for their response to the pandemic. The Company also made over $8 million in broad, off-cycle wage rate adjustments, primarily to its U.S. non-exempt employees.
The Company is focusing on enhancing our benefits positioning by not increasing employee contributions in 2021 for the U.S. non-union medical, dental, and vision plans, as well as providing disability coverage at no cost to U.S. non-union employees. In the area of wellness, the Company covered the cost or provided a subsidy to all global employees for flu shots to protect their health and safety, as well as the health and safety of patients and customers. The Company built these enhancements on top of other benefits and wellness programs, such as in the U.S. medical plans where the Company subsidizes part of the monthly contributions for employees earning less than $50,000 annually and provides up to $1,000 in medical reimbursements for engaging in healthy activities. The Company also provides U.S. employees a $300 fitness reimbursement to encourage healthy lifestyles.
Development and Training
Because the life sciences industry is heavily regulated, the Dx and DD segments require a significant investment in technical training to prepare their workforces to meet the necessary standards to run and manage business operations. Across the enterprise considerable attention is focused on employee skills training.
While the technical training is important to the Company’s success in differentiating its science and technology, the Company also invests in training for the professional development of its talent and to retain its best employees for future opportunities in the Company. In 2020, 3,500 employees attended professional development webinars consisting of 7,000 hours of professional development. To strengthen leadership capabilities, the organization provided 6,200 hours of core leadership training to early in career leaders. Finally, the expanded mentoring program had 2,100 employees participate with 10,200 mentoring hours recorded from April to December 2020.
The pandemic has provided challenges to the ability to provide both technical and leadership training. The Company has adapted by utilizing technology to deliver unique virtual learning and development opportunities.
Health and Safety
The nature of the Dx and DD business segments requires employees to work directly with patients, handle, process or test human specimens on a daily basis. As a result, the health and safety of the Company's employees is a primary concern. The Company has established procedures, processes and controls, including providing personal protective equipment (PPE) to protect our employees. During the pandemic, the Company supplied more than 250 million units of PPE to employees, including personal cloth facemasks for each employee, N95 respirators, and ear-loop masks, gloves, face shields and disposable lab coats.
Employee Giving
The COVID-19 crisis left many communities and individuals facing health challenges and financial crisis. Through the Company’s U.S. annual Employee Giving Campaign, donations helped to support the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association, American Diabetes Association, American Red Cross Disaster Relief, United Way, and the National Urban League. The National Urban League was added based on feedback from the Company's employees requesting a charity focused on social and economic justice. The Company and its employees focused their efforts on helping the underserved in 2020 by donating to local food pantries and shelters, by supporting educational programs aimed at helping to provide students and teachers with the resources they needed during the pandemic and supporting a number of patient assistance programs aimed at helping the underserved while they received care. In addition, the Company established the Labcorp Charitable Foundation which supports the Company’s strategic mission of improving health and improving lives with contributions focused on health and welfare, education and community.
Customers
The Company provides its services to a broad range of customers across Dx and DD. The primary customer groups serviced by the Company include:
•MCOs. The Company serves many MCOs, each of which operate on a national, regional, or local basis.
19
Index

•Biopharmaceutical, Medical Device, and Diagnostics Companies. The Company provides development services to hundreds of biopharmaceutical (including pharmaceutical and biotechnology-based organizations), medical device, and diagnostics companies, ranging from the world's largest multi-nationals to emerging, mid-market companies.
•Physicians and Other Healthcare Providers. Physicians who require clinical laboratory testing for their patients are a primary source of requests for Dx's testing services.
•Hospitals and Health Systems. The Company provides hospitals and health systems with services ranging from core and specialty testing to supply chain and technical support services, and the opportunity to be a research partner for participation in studies and clinical trials with DD. In some cases, a hospital’s on-site laboratory may be operated or managed by an outside contractor or independent laboratory, including the Company.
•Other Customers. The Company serves a broad range of other customers, including, but not limited to, governmental agencies, employers, patients and consumers, CROs, crop protection and chemical companies, academic institutions and independent clinical laboratories.
Sales, Marketing, and Customer Service
The Company offers its services through a sales force focused on serving the specific needs of customers in different market segments. The Company's sales force is responsible for both new sales and for customer retention and relationship building.
For Dx, these market segments generally include primary care, women's health, specialty medicine (e.g., infectious diseases, endocrinology, gastroenterology, and rheumatology), oncology, ACOs, and hospitals and health systems, with different representatives focused on each segment to better understand and respond to the unique needs of each clinical area. DD’s global sales organization provides customer coverage across the biopharmaceutical industry for services including lead optimization, preclinical safety assessment, analytical services, clinical trials, central laboratories, biomarkers, and companion diagnostics, market access and technology solutions. As part of its ongoing strategic priority to maximize the power of the combined, sales representatives from each business segment work together on outreach to potential customers of each business, including hospitals and health systems that may purchase testing and participate in clinical trials, or biopharmaceutical companies whose studies may benefit from use of Dx’s specialty testing or network of PSCs.

In 2020, the Company initiated a greater emphasis on establishing a centralized marketing program to support both of its primary business segments, rather than separate programs for each segment. The Company anticipates that this will provide further support for fully leveraging the power of its combined capabilities, and it is also aligned with the Company’s rebranding initiative, which was launched in December 2020.
Market Opportunity
Dx
The Company believes that in 2020, the U.S. clinical laboratory testing industry generated revenues of more than $80 billion. The clinical laboratory industry consists primarily of three types of providers: hospital-based laboratories, physician-office laboratories and independent clinical and anatomical pathology laboratories, such as those operated by Dx.

The clinical laboratory business is intensely competitive. CMS has estimated that in 2020 there were approximately 9,100 hospital-based laboratories, more than 121,000 physician-office laboratories and approximately 6,500 independent clinical and anatomic pathology laboratories in the U.S. Dx competes with all of those laboratories.

Dx believes that the selection of a laboratory is primarily based on the following factors, all of which the Company believes it competes favorably in:
•quality, timeliness and consistency in reporting test results;
•reputation of the laboratory in the medical community or field of specialty;
•contractual relationships with MCOs;
•service capability and convenience;
•number and type of tests performed;
•connectivity solutions offered; and
•pricing of the laboratory’s services.

Dx believes that consolidation in the clinical laboratory testing business will continue. In addition, Dx believes that it and other large, independent clinical laboratory testing companies will be able to increase their share of the overall clinical laboratory testing market due to a number of factors, including cost efficiencies afforded by large-scale automated testing, mergers and acquisitions of complementary businesses, changes in payment models to performance and value-based reimbursement to deliver better outcomes at lower cost, and the increasing importance of large, integrated service networks. In
20
Index

addition, legal restrictions on physician referrals and physician ownership of laboratories, as well as ongoing regulation of laboratories, are expected to continue to contribute to the ongoing consolidation of the industry.
DD
 Drug development services companies like DD are also referred to as CROs and typically derive substantially all of their revenue from research and development (R&D), as well as marketing expenditures, of the biopharmaceutical industry.
Outsourcing of R&D services by biopharmaceutical companies to CROs has increased in the past, and is expected to continue increasing in the future. Increasing pressures to improve return on investment, to increase R&D productivity, to stay abreast of scientific advances and to comply with stringent government regulations have all contributed to this outsourcing to CROs. A CRO provides biopharmaceutical companies flexibility in aligning resources to demand. In the face of mounting complexity, the investment and amount of time required to develop new products are significant and have been increasing. These trends create opportunities for DD and other CROs that can help make the development process more efficient.
The drug development industry has many participants ranging from hundreds of small providers to a limited number of large CROs with global capabilities. DD competes against these small and large CROs, as well as in-house departments of biopharmaceutical, medical device and diagnostic companies, and to a lesser extent, selected academic research centers, universities and teaching hospitals.
DD believes that customers selecting a CRO often consider the following factors, all of which the Company believes it competes favorably in:
•reputation for quality and regulatory compliance;
•efficient, timely performance;
•expertise and experience in operations;
•application of technology and innovation;
•specific therapeutic and scientific expertise;
•data and analytical capabilities;
•post approval and market access services;
•ability to recruit patients;
•scope of service offerings;
•strengths in various geographic markets;
•price;
•quality of facilities;
•quality of relationships, including investigator and patient;
•ability to manage large-scale clinical trials both domestically and internationally, including the recruitment of appropriate and sufficient clinical trial subjects;
•size and scale; and
•access to talent.
Quality
Dx and DD have comprehensive quality systems and processes appropriate for their respective businesses. The Company's quality programs are overseen by Dx's National Office of Quality, DD’s Global Regulatory Compliance and Quality Assurance Unit, DD's clinical trial services global vendor management department, DD's central laboratory services expanded laboratory management services department, and the Company's global supply chain management department and project management staff. The Company has procedures for monitoring its internal performance, as well as that of its vendors, suppliers, and other key stakeholders. In addition, various groups and departments within the Company provide oversight to monitor and control vendor products and performance, and play an essential role in the Company’s approach to quality through improvements in processes and automation.
Virtually all facets of the Company’s services are subject to quality programs and procedures, including accuracy and reproducibility of tests; turnaround time; customer service; data integrity; patient satisfaction; and billing. The Company’s quality program includes measures that compare current performance against desired performance goals to monitor critical aspects of service to its customers and patients. This includes licensing, credentialing, training and competency of professional and technical staff, and internal auditing. In addition to the Company's own quality programs, the Company’s laboratories, facilities and processes are subject to on-site regulatory agency inspections and accreditation evaluations, in addition to surveys and proficiency testing, by local or national government agencies; independent external accrediting programs; and inspections and audits by customers.
21
Index

Thirty-four of the Company's laboratories have received ISO-15189 accreditation, demonstrating that they meet international standards for quality and technical competence.
Information Systems
The Company is committed to developing and commercializing technology-enabled solutions to support its operations and provide better care. The Company operates standard platforms for its core business services and its financial and reporting systems. These standard systems provide consistency within workflows and information as well as a high level of system availability, security, and stability. The primary laboratory systems include standardized support for molecular diagnostics, digital pathology and enhanced specialty laboratory solutions. The Company's centralized information systems are responsible for tremendous operational efficiencies, enabling the Company to achieve consistent, structured, and standardized operating results and superior patient care.
In addition, Dx and DD each offer proprietary and industry-leading information systems, which are discussed in more detail in the sections dedicated to each of those segments.
Intellectual Property Rights
The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and nondisclosure and non-competition agreements to establish and protect its proprietary technology. The Company has filed and obtained numerous patents in the U.S. and abroad, and regularly files patent applications, when appropriate, to establish and protect its proprietary technology. Occasionally, the Company also licenses U.S. and non-U.S. patents, patent applications, technology, trade secrets, know-how, copyrights or trademarks owned by others. The Company believes, however, that no single patent, technology, trademark, intellectual property asset or license is material to its business as a whole.
Patents covering the Company's technologies are subject to challenges. Issued patents may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or declared unenforceable so that patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. In addition, the laws of some countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S.
Parties may file claims asserting that the Company's technologies infringe on their intellectual property. The Company cannot predict whether parties will assert such claims against it, or whether those claims will harm its business. If the Company is forced to defend against such claims, the Company could face costly litigation and diversion of management’s attention and resources. As result of such disputes, the Company may have to develop costly non-infringing technology or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may require financial or other terms that could have an adverse effect on the Company's business and financial condition.
Regulation and Reimbursement
General
Because the Company operates in a number of distinct environments and in a variety of locations worldwide, it is subject to numerous, and sometimes overlapping, regulatory requirements. Both the clinical laboratory industry and the drug development business are subject to significant governmental regulation at the national, state and local levels. As described below, these regulations concern licensure and operation of clinical laboratories, claim submission and reimbursement for laboratory services, healthcare fraud and abuse, drug development services, security and confidentiality of health information, quality, and environmental and occupational safety.
Regulation of Clinical Laboratories
Virtually all clinical laboratories operating in the U.S. must be certified by the federal government or by a federally approved accreditation agency. In most cases, that certification is regulated by CMS through CLIA, which requires that applicable clinical laboratories meet quality assurance, quality control, and personnel standards. Laboratories also must undergo proficiency testing and are subject to inspections. Clinical laboratories in locations other than the U.S. are generally subject to comparable regulation in their respective jurisdictions.
Standards for testing under CLIA are based on the complexity of the tests performed by the laboratory, with tests classified as “high complexity,” “moderate complexity,” or “waived.” Laboratories performing high-complexity testing are required to meet more stringent requirements than moderate-complexity laboratories. Laboratories performing only waived tests, which are tests determined by the FDA to have a low potential for error and requiring little oversight, may apply for a certificate of waiver exempting them from most CLIA requirements. All major and many smaller Company facilities hold CLIA certificates to perform high-complexity testing. The Company's remaining smaller testing sites hold CLIA certificates to perform moderate-complexity testing or a certificate of waiver. The sanctions for failure to comply with CLIA requirements include suspension, revocation, or limitation of a laboratory's CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business; cancellation or suspension
22
Index

of the laboratory's approval to receive Medicare and/or Medicaid reimbursement; as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. The loss or suspension of a CLIA certification, imposition of a fine or other penalties, or future changes in the CLIA law or regulations (or interpretation of the law or regulations) could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
The Company is also subject to state and local laboratory regulation. CLIA provides that a state may adopt laboratory regulations different from or more stringent than those under federal law, and a number of states have implemented their own laboratory regulatory requirements. State laws may require that laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls, or require maintenance of certain records.
The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all laboratory requirements applicable to its laboratories operating both within the U.S. and in other countries. The Company's laboratories have continuing programs to maintain operations in compliance with all such regulatory requirements, but no assurances can be given that the Company's laboratories will pass all future licensure or certification inspections.
FDA and Other Regulatory Agency Laws and Regulations
Various regulatory agencies, including the FDA in the U.S., have regulatory responsibility over the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing, distribution, storage, import, export, and surveillance of diagnostic and therapeutic products and services, including certain products and services offered by the Company, and the development of therapeutic products that comprise the majority of DD’s business. The FDA and other regulatory agencies periodically inspect and review the manufacturing processes and product performance of diagnostic and therapeutic products. The FDA and other regulatory agencies also periodically inspect clinical study sites and CROs that conduct clinical trials, including test facilities that perform tests on samples from human subjects enrolled in such clinical studies of drugs, biologics, and medical devices. These agencies have the authority to take various administrative and legal actions for noncompliance, such as fines, withdrawal of product approval, warning or untitled letters, seizures, recalls, injunctions and other civil and criminal sanctions. There are similar national and regional regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Company operates.
Since 2014, there have been ongoing discussions and advocacy between stakeholders, including the clinical laboratory industry, the FDA, and Congress, about potential FDA regulation of laboratory-developed tests (LDTs), which are assays developed and performed in-house by clinical laboratories and can be made available to the public without pre-market review by the FDA (although COVID-19 diagnostic PCR LDTs have been subject to FDA pre-market requirements as modified by guidance issued by FDA on February 29, 2020, as a consequence of the national health emergency). Various regulatory and legislative proposals are under consideration, including some that could increase general FDA oversight of clinical laboratories and LDTs. The outcome and ultimate impact of such proposals on the Company is difficult to predict at this time.
DD’s laboratory facilities and Dx's clinical laboratory facilities that perform testing in support of clinical trials, must conform to a range of standards and regulations, including good laboratory practice (GLP) and good clinical practice (GCP), good manufacturing practice (cGMP), human subject protection and investigational product exemption regulations, and quality system regulation (QSR) requirements, as applicable. The preclinical and clinical studies that the Company conducts are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA as well as other regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Company operates, which may include, without limitation, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) in the U.K., the European Medicines Agency, the National Medical Products Administration in China, and the Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Agency in Japan, to determine compliance with GLP and GCP as well as other applicable standards and regulations. If a regulatory agency determines during an inspection that the Company’s equipment, facilities, laboratories, operations, or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and GLP and/or GCP standards, the regulatory agency may issue a formal notice, which may be followed by a warning letter if observations are not addressed satisfactorily. Noncompliance may result in, among other things, unanticipated compliance expenditures, or the regulatory agency seeking civil, criminal or administrative sanctions and/or remedies against the Company, including suspension of its operations.
Additionally, certain DD services and activities, such as chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (CMC) services and manufacturing of investigational medicinal products for use in certain Phase I studies managed by DD, must conform to cGMP. DD is subject to periodic inspections by the FDA and the MHRA, as well as other regulatory agencies in the jurisdictions outside the U.S. in which the Company operates, in order to assess, among other things, cGMP compliance. If a regulatory agency identifies deficiencies during an inspection, it may issue a formal notice, which may be followed by a warning letter if observations are not addressed satisfactorily. Failure to maintain compliance with cGMP regulations and other applicable requirements of various regulatory agencies could result in, among other things, fines, warnings or untitled letters, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of manufacturing, enforcement actions, product seizures or recalls, injunctions, or criminal prosecution.

23
Index

Animal Welfare Laws and Regulations
The conduct of animal research at DD’s facilities in the U.S. must be in compliance with the AWA, which governs the care and use of warm-blooded animals for research in the U.S. other than laboratory rats, mice, and chickens, and is enforced through periodic inspections by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The AWA establishes facility standards regarding several aspects of animal welfare, including housing, ventilation, lighting, feeding and watering, handling, veterinary care, and recordkeeping. DD complies with licensing and registration requirement standards set by the USDA and similar agencies in foreign jurisdictions such as the European Union, the U.K., and China for the care and use of regulated species. If the USDA determines that DD’s equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable AWA standards, it may issue an inspection report documenting the deficiencies and setting deadlines for any required corrective actions. The USDA may impose fines, suspend and/or revoke licenses and registrations, or confiscate research animals. Other countries where the Company conducts business have similar laws and regulations with which the Company must also comply. In addition, certain of DD’s animal-related activities may be subject to regulation by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare of the National Institutes of Health, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and similar organizations in other jurisdictions.
Payment for Clinical Laboratory Services
In 2020, Dx derived approximately 11.3% of its revenue directly from traditional Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, Dx's other commercial laboratory testing business that is not directly related to Medicare or Medicaid nevertheless depends significantly on continued participation in these programs and in other government healthcare programs, in part because customers often want a single laboratory to perform all of their testing services. In recent years, both governmental and private sector payers have made efforts to contain or reduce healthcare costs, including reducing reimbursement for clinical laboratory services.
Reimbursement under the Medicare PFS is capped at different rates in each Medicare Administrative Contractor's jurisdiction. Pursuant to PAMA, reimbursement under the CLFS is set at a national rate that is updated every three years for most tests. State Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule limit for clinical laboratory services furnished to Medicaid recipients. Laboratories primarily bill and are reimbursed by Medicare and Medicaid directly for covered tests performed on behalf of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries; for beneficiaries that participate in Managed Medicare and Managed Medicaid plans, laboratory bills are submitted to and paid by MCOs that manage those plans. Approximately 8.8% of Dx's revenue is reimbursed directly by Medicare under the CLFS.
Many pathology services performed by Dx are reimbursed by Medicare under the PFS. The PFS assigns relative value units to each procedure or service, and a conversion factor is applied to calculate the reimbursement. The PFS is also subject to adjustment on an annual basis. Such adjustments can impact both the conversion factor and relative value units. The Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), the formula previously used to calculate the fee schedule conversion factor, would have resulted in significant decreases in payment for most physician services for each year since 2003. However, Congress intervened repeatedly to prevent these payment reductions, and the conversion factor was increased or frozen for the subsequent year. The Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015 (MACRA) permanently replaced the SGR formula and transitioned PFS reimbursement to a value-based payment system. MACRA retroactively avoided a 21.2% reduction in PFS reimbursement that had been scheduled for April 1, 2015, and provided for PFS conversion factor increases of 0.5% from July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, and 0.5% in each of years 2016-2019, followed by no updates for 2020-2025, and updates that vary based on participation in alternative payment models in subsequent years. These changes to the conversion factor may be offset by reductions to the relative value units, as was the case with the 2016 PFS reductions. Approximately 0.4% of Dx's revenue is reimbursed under the PFS.
In addition to changes in reimbursement rates, Dx is also impacted by changes in coverage policies for laboratory tests and annual CPT coding revisions. Medicare, Medicaid and private payer diagnosis code requirements and payment policies negatively impact Dx's ability to be paid for some of the tests it performs. Further, some payers require additional information to process claims, employ third-party utilization management tools, or have implemented prior authorization policies which delay or prohibit payment. In 2020, with the exception of those specifically related to COVID-19 testing, there were limited coding and billing changes. While limited changes are expected to be implemented in 2021, the Company typically expects some delays in pricing and reimbursement as new codes are introduced.
Future changes in national, state and local laws and regulations (or in the interpretation of current regulations) affecting government payment for clinical laboratory testing could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Further healthcare reform could occur in 2021, including changes to the ACA and Medicare reform, initiatives to address surprise billing and increased price transparency, as well as administrative requirements that may continue to affect coverage, reimbursement, and utilization of laboratory services in ways that are currently unpredictable.
24
Index

Privacy, Security and Confidentiality of Health Information and Other Personal Information
In the U.S., the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) was designed to address issues related to the security and confidentiality of health information and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions. These regulations apply to health plans and healthcare providers that conduct standard transactions electronically and healthcare clearinghouses (covered entities). Six such regulations include: (i) the Transactions and Code Sets Rule; (ii) the Privacy Rule; (iii) the Security Rule; (iv) the Standard Unique Employer Identifier Rule, which requires the use of a unique employer identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions; (v) the National Provider Identifier Rule, which requires the use of a unique healthcare provider identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions; and (vi) the Health Plan Identifier Rule, which required the use of a unique health plan identifier in connection with certain electronic transactions. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with each of the HIPAA Rules identified above.
The Privacy Rule regulates the use and disclosure of protected health information (PHI) by covered entities. It also sets forth certain rights that an individual has with respect to his or her PHI maintained by a covered entity, such as the right to access or amend certain records containing PHI or to request restrictions on the use or disclosure of PHI. The Privacy Rule requires covered entities to contractually bind third parties, known as business associates, in the event that they perform an activity or service for or on behalf of the covered entity that involves the creation, receipt, maintenance, or transmission of PHI. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of the HIPAA Privacy Rule.
On February 6, 2014, CMS and HHS published final regulations that amended the HIPAA Privacy Rule to provide individuals (or their personal representatives) with the right to receive copies of their test reports from laboratories subject to HIPAA, or to request that copies of their test reports be transmitted to designated third parties. The Company believes its policies and procedures and privacy notice comply with the Privacy Rule access requirements.
On December 12, 2018, HHS issued a request for information (RFI) seeking input from the public on how the HIPAA regulations and the Privacy Rule, in particular, could be modified to amend existing, or impose additional, obligations relating to the processing of PHI. Subsequent to the RFI, on January 21, 2021, HHS published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) containing potential modifications to the Privacy Rule addressing standards that may impede the transition to value-based health care. The Company is monitoring the NPRM process. If modifications to the Privacy Rule are adopted, they may impact the Company's compliance obligations under HIPAA.
The U.S. Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), which was enacted in February 2009, with regulations effective on September 23, 2013, strengthened and expanded the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules and their restrictions on use and disclosure of PHI. HITECH includes, but is not limited to, prohibitions on exchanging PHI for remuneration and additional restrictions on the use of PHI for marketing. HITECH also fundamentally changes a business associate’s obligations by imposing a number of Privacy Rule requirements and a majority of Security Rule provisions directly on business associates that were previously only directly applicable to covered entities. Moreover, HITECH requires covered entities to provide notice to individuals, HHS, and, as applicable, the media when unsecured PHI is breached, as that term is defined by HITECH. Business associates are similarly required to notify covered entities of a breach. The Company believes its policies and procedures are fully compliant with HIPAA as modified by the HITECH requirements.
The administrative simplification provisions of HIPAA mandate the adoption of standard unique identifiers for healthcare providers. The intent of these provisions is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the electronic transmission of health information. The National Provider Identifier Rule requires that all HIPAA-covered healthcare providers, whether they are individuals or organizations, must obtain an NPI to identify themselves in standard HIPAA transactions. NPI replaces the unique provider identification number and other provider numbers previously assigned by payers and other entities for the purpose of identifying healthcare providers in standard electronic transactions. The Company believes that it is in compliance with the HIPAA National Provider Identifier Rule in all material respects.
The Health Plan Identifier (HPID) was a unique identifier designed to furnish a standard way to identify health plans in electronic transactions. CMS published the final rule adopting the HPID for health plans required by HIPAA on September 12, 2012. Effective October 31, 2014, CMS announced a delay, until further notice, in enforcement of regulations pertaining to health plan enumeration and use of the HPID in HIPAA transactions adopted in the HPID final rule. On October 28, 2019, CMS published a final rule rescinding the adopted standard unique HPID and implementation specifications and requirements for its use and other entity identifier and implementation specifications for its use, effective December 27, 2019. This delay remains in effect. The Company will continue to monitor future developments related to the HPID and respond accordingly.
Violations of the HIPAA provisions could result in civil and/or criminal penalties, including significant fines and up to 10 years in prison. HITECH also significantly strengthened HIPAA enforcement by increasing the civil penalty amounts that may be imposed, requiring HHS to conduct periodic audits to confirm compliance and authorizing state attorneys general to bring
25
Index

civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages in response to violations of the HIPAA privacy and security regulations that affect the privacy of state residents.
The total cost associated with meeting the ongoing requirements of HIPAA and HITECH is not expected to be material to the Company’s operations or cash flows. However, future regulations and interpretations of HIPAA and HITECH could impose significant costs on the Company.
In addition to the HIPAA regulations described above, numerous other data protection, privacy and similar laws govern the confidentiality, security, use, and disclosure of personal information. These laws vary by jurisdiction, but they most commonly regulate or restrict the collection, use, and disclosure of medical and financial information and other personal information. In the U.S., some state laws are more restrictive and, therefore, are not preempted by HIPAA. Penalties for violation of these laws may include sanctions against a laboratory's licensure, as well as civil and/or criminal penalties.
Congress and state legislatures also have been considering new legislation relating to privacy and data protection. For example, on June 28, 2018, the California legislature passed the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA created new transparency requirements and granted California residents several new rights with regard to their personal information. In addition, in November 2020, California voters approved the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA) ballot initiative, which introduced significant amendments to the CCPA and established and funded a dedicated California privacy regulator, the California Privacy Protection Agency (CPPA). The amendments introduced by the CPRA go into effect on January 1, 2023, and new implementing regulations are expected to be introduced by the CPPA. Failure to comply with the CCPA may result in, among other things, significant civil penalties and injunctive relief, or potential statutory or actual damages. In addition, California residents have the right to bring a private right of action in connection with certain types of incidents. These claims may result in significant liability and potential damages. The Company implemented processes to manage compliance with the CCPA and continues to assess the impact of the CPRA on the Company’s business as additional information and guidance becomes available.
Effective August 14, 2020, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration of HHS (SAMHSA) announced the finalization of proposed changes to the Confidentiality of Substance Use Disorder Patient Records regulation, 42 Code of Federal Regulations Part 2. This regulation protects the confidentiality of patient records relating to the identity, diagnosis, prognosis, or treatment that are maintained in connection with the performance of any federally assisted program or activity relating to substance use disorder education, prevention, training, treatment, rehabilitation, or research. Under the regulation, patient identifying information may only be released with the individual’s written consent, subject to certain limited exceptions. The latest changes to this regulation seek to better facilitate care coordination, while maintaining more stringent confidentiality of substance use disorder information. The Company adopted changes to its policies and procedures necessary for compliance.
The European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Regulation (EU) 2016/679, became effective May 25, 2018, replacing Directive 95/46/EC. The GDPR established requirements applicable to the use and transfer of personal data and imposes penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue. The GDPR requires transparency with regard to the means and purposes of processing of personal data; collection of consent to process personal data in certain circumstances; the ability to provide records of processing upon request by a supervisory authority or data controller; implementation of appropriate technical and organizational measures to maintain security of personal data; notification of personal data breaches to supervisory authorities, data controllers, and individuals within expedient time frames; and performance of data protection impact assessments for certain processing activities. Personal data may only be transferred outside of the European Union to a country that offers an adequate level of data protection under standards set by the European Union. The GDPR also provides individual data subjects with certain rights, where applicable, including the right of access, the right to rectification, the right to be forgotten, the right to restrict or object to processing, and the right to data portability. The Company has established processes and frameworks to manage compliance with the GDPR and other global privacy and data protection requirements, and to manage preparation for future enacted regulations. Compliance could impose significant costs on the Company.
In addition to the GDPR, numerous other countries have laws governing the collection, use, disclosure, and transmission (including cross-border transfer) of personal information, including medical information. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection is complex and continually evolving. Data protection regulations have been enacted or updated in regions where the Company does business including in Asia, Latin America, and Europe, and in countries such as Canada and the UK. Failure to comply with these regulations may result in, among other things, civil, criminal and contractual liability, fines, regulatory sanctions and damage to the Company’s reputation.


26
Index

Fraud and Abuse Laws and Regulations
Existing U.S. laws governing federal healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, as well as similar state laws, impose a variety of broadly described fraud and abuse prohibitions on healthcare providers, including clinical laboratories. These laws are interpreted liberally and enforced aggressively by multiple government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Justice, OIG and various state agencies. Historically, the clinical laboratory industry has been the focus of major governmental enforcement initiatives. The U.S. government's enforcement efforts have been conducted under regulations such as HIPAA, which includes several provisions related to fraud and abuse enforcement, including the establishment of a program to coordinate and fund U.S., state and local law enforcement efforts, and the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, which includes requirements directed at Medicaid fraud, including increased spending on enforcement and financial incentives for states to adopt false claims act provisions similar to the U.S. False Claims Act. Amendments to the False Claims Act, and other enhancements to the U.S. fraud and abuse laws enacted as part of the ACA, have further increased fraud and abuse enforcement efforts and compliance risks. For example, the ACA established an obligation to report and refund overpayments from Medicare or Medicaid within 60 days of identification (whether or not paid through any fault of the recipient); failure to comply with this requirement can give rise to additional liability under the False Claims Act and Civil Monetary Penalties statute. 
The U.S. Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits knowingly providing anything of value in return for, or to induce the referral of, Medicare, Medicaid or other U.S. healthcare program business. Violations can result in imprisonment, fines, penalties, and/or exclusion from participation in U.S. healthcare programs. The OIG has published “safe harbor” regulations that specify certain arrangements that are protected from prosecution under the Anti-Kickback Statute if all conditions of the relevant safe harbor are met. Failure to fit within a safe harbor does not necessarily constitute a violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute; rather, the arrangement would be subject to scrutiny by regulators and prosecutors and would be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Many states have their own Medicaid anti-kickback laws, and several states also have anti-kickback laws that apply to all payers (i.e., not just government healthcare programs).
From time to time, the OIG issues alerts and other guidance on certain practices in the healthcare industry that implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute or other fraud and abuse laws. OIG Special Fraud Alerts and Advisory Opinions relevant to the Company set forth a number of practices allegedly engaged in by some clinical laboratories and healthcare providers that raise issues under the U.S. fraud and abuse laws, including the Anti-Kickback Statute. These practices include: (i) providing employees to furnish valuable services for physicians (other than collecting patient specimens for testing) that are typically the responsibility of the physicians’ staff; (ii) offering certain laboratory services at prices below fair market value in return for referrals of other tests that are billed to Medicare at higher rates; (iii) providing free testing to physicians’ managed care patients in situations where the referring physicians benefit from such reduced laboratory utilization; (iv) providing free pickup and disposal of biohazardous waste for physicians for items unrelated to a laboratory’s testing services; (v) providing general-use facsimile machines or computers to physicians that are not exclusively used in connection with the laboratory services; (vi) providing free testing for healthcare providers, their families and their employees (i.e., so-called “professional courtesy” testing); (vii) compensation paid by laboratories to physicians for blood specimen processing and for submitting patient data to registries; and (viii) the provision of discounts on laboratory services billed to customers in return for the referral of U.S. healthcare program business.
In addition to the Anti-Kickback Statute, in October 2018, the U.S. enacted the Eliminating Kickbacks in Recovery Act of 2018 (EKRA), as part of the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery and Treatment for Patients and Communities Act (SUPPORT Act). EKRA is an all-payer anti-kickback law that makes it a criminal offense to pay any remuneration to induce referrals to, or in exchange for, patients using the services of a recovery home, a substance use clinical treatment facility, or laboratory. Although it appears that EKRA was intended to reach patient brokering and similar arrangements to induce patronage of substance use recovery and treatment, the language in EKRA is broadly written. As drafted, an EKRA prohibition on incentive compensation to sales employees is inconsistent with the federal anti-kickback statute and regulations, which permit payment of employee incentive compensation, a practice that is common in the industry. Significantly, EKRA permits the U.S.  Department of Justice to issue regulations clarifying EKRA’s exceptions or adding additional exceptions, but such regulations have not yet been issued. The Company is working through its trade association to address the scope of EKRA and is seeking clarification or correction.
Enrollment and re-enrollment in U.S. healthcare programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, are subject to certain program integrity requirements intended to protect the programs from fraud, waste, and abuse. In September 2019, CMS published a final rule implementing program integrity enhancements to provider enrollment requiring Medicare, Medicaid, and Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) providers and suppliers to disclose on an enrollment application or a revalidation application any current or previous direct or indirect affiliation with a provider or supplier that (1) has uncollected debt; (2) has been or is subject to a payment suspension under a federal health care program; (3) has been or is excluded by the OIG from Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP; or (4) has had its Medicare, Medicaid, or CHIP billing privileges denied or revoked. This rule permits CMS to deny enrollment based on such an affiliation when CMS determines that the affiliation poses an undue risk of
27
Index

fraud, waste, or abuse. CMS is phasing in this new affiliation disclosure requirement.
Under another U.S. statute, known as the Stark Law or “physician self-referral” prohibition, physicians who have a financial or a compensation relationship with a commercial laboratory may not, unless an exception applies, refer Medicare or Medicaid patients for testing to the laboratory, regardless of the intent of the parties. Similarly, laboratories may not bill Medicare or Medicaid for services furnished pursuant to a prohibited self-referral. There are several Stark Law exceptions that are relevant to arrangements involving clinical laboratories, including: i) fair market value compensation for the provision of items or services; ii) payments by physicians to a laboratory for commercial laboratory services; iii) ancillary services (including laboratory services) provided within the referring physician's own office, if certain criteria are satisfied; iv) physician investment in a company whose stock is traded on a public exchange and has stockholder equity exceeding $75.0 million; and v) certain space and equipment rental arrangements that are set at a fair market value rate and satisfy other requirements. Many states have their own self-referral laws as well, which in some cases apply to all patient referrals, not just government reimbursement programs.
In December 2020, the OIG and CMS published final rules to amend the regulations implementing the Anti-Kickback Statute and the Stark Law, respectively. The amendments are primarily intended to alleviate perceived impediments to coordinated care and value-based compensation arrangements through new safe harbors to the Anti-Kickback Statute and new exceptions to the Stark Law, and have varying degrees of applicability to laboratories. The CMS final rule incorporates laboratories and permits support for value-based arrangements, under certain conditions for purposes of the Stark Law. However, the OIG final rule excludes laboratories from protection under the Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbors for value-based arrangements.
There are a variety of other types of U.S. and state fraud and abuse laws, including laws prohibiting submission of false or fraudulent claims. The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all U.S. and state fraud and abuse laws. The Company is unable to predict how these laws will be applied in the future, and no assurances can be given that its arrangements will not be subject to scrutiny under such laws. Sanctions for violations of these laws may include exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other U.S. or state healthcare programs, significant criminal and civil fines and penalties, and loss of licensure. Any exclusion from participation in a U.S. healthcare program, or material loss of licensure, arising from any action by any federal or state regulatory or enforcement authority, would likely have a material adverse effect on the Company's business. In addition, any significant criminal or civil penalty resulting from such proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.
Environmental, Health, and Safety
The Company is subject to licensing and regulation under laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, and human health and safety laws and regulations relating to the handling, transportation and disposal of medical specimens and hazardous materials, infectious and hazardous waste and radioactive materials. All Company laboratories are subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to biohazard disposal of all laboratory specimens, and the Company generally utilizes outside vendors for disposal of such specimens. In addition, the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has established extensive requirements relating to workplace safety for healthcare employers, including clinical laboratories, whose workers may be exposed to blood-borne pathogens such as HIV, HCV and hepatitis B virus (HCB). These regulations, among other things, require work practice controls, protective clothing and equipment, training, medical follow-up, vaccinations, and other measures designed to minimize exposure to, and transmission of, blood-borne pathogens. Other countries where the Company conducts business have similar laws and regulations concerning the environment and human health and safety with which the Company must also comply.
The Company is committed to reducing its carbon footprint. Energy-saving measures are continuing at Company facilities, including installation of energy-saving LED lighting, engaging in waste-to-energy projects, and helping reduce waste going to landfills, as well as capital investments to systems to improve energy and water usage. Funding for these and similar projects continued through 2020 and are continuing in 2021.
The Company seeks to comply with all relevant environmental and human health and safety laws and regulations. Failure to comply could subject the Company to various administrative and/or other enforcement actions.  
Drug Testing
Drug testing for public sector employees is regulated by the SAMHSA, which has established detailed performance and quality standards that laboratories must meet to be approved to perform drug testing on employees of U.S. government contractors and certain other entities. To the extent that the Company’s laboratories perform such testing, each must be certified as meeting SAMHSA standards. The Company’s laboratories in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina; Raritan, New Jersey; Houston, Texas; Southaven, Mississippi; Spokane, Washington; and St. Paul, Minnesota are all SAMHSA certified.

28
Index

Controlled Substances
DD handles controlled substances as part of the services it provides in preclinical testing and clinical trials. The use of controlled substances in testing for drugs of abuse is regulated by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with these regulations as applicable. Violations of these rules may result in criminal and civil fines and penalties.
Compliance Program
The Company maintains a comprehensive, global compliance program that includes ongoing evaluation and monitoring of its compliance with the laws and regulations of the U.S. and the other countries in which it has operations. The objective of the Company’s compliance program is to develop, implement, monitor, and update compliance safeguards, as appropriate. Although the Company is subject to a broad range of regulations, its compliance program has a particular focus on regulations related to healthcare fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, physician self-referral, government reimbursement programs, anti-bribery/anti-corruption, anti-human trafficking and trade sanctions, among others. Emphasis is placed on developing and implementing compliance policies and guidelines, personnel training programs, monitoring and auditing activities, and providing systems for reporting and investigation of potential or actual compliance concerns. The compliance program demonstrates the Company's commitment to conducting business at the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity.
The Company seeks to conduct its business in compliance with all statutes, regulations, and other requirements applicable to its clinical laboratory operations and drug development business. The clinical laboratory industry and drug development industries are, however, subject to extensive regulation, and many of these statutes and regulations have not been interpreted by the courts. In addition, the applicability or interpretation of statutes and regulations may not be clear in light of emerging changes in clinical testing science, healthcare technology, and healthcare organizations. Applicable statutes and regulations may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that would materially adversely affect the Company. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant civil and criminal penalties, fines, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs, and the loss of various licenses, certificates, and authorizations necessary to operate, as well as potential liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.
Information Security
Information security is one of the Company's top priorities. Securing personal and health information is critical to the Company’s business operations and to future growth, as the Company is committed to using technology to improve the delivery of care. A security breach could have a material adverse operational, financial, regulatory, and reputational impact to the Company. The Company employs a secure technology framework that enables continuous operations of laboratory devices, computers, and communications systems. The Company has experienced and expects to continue to confront attempts by cybercriminals who seek access to its systems and data.
The Company uses state-of-the art tools and advanced analytics to proactively identify and protect against potential information system disruptions and breaches; to monitor, test and secure key networks and services; and to facilitate prompt resumption of operations if a system disruption or interruption should occur. The Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to comply with global laws and regulations related to the privacy and security of personal or health information. In addition, the Company follows protocols for evaluating the cybersecurity status of vendors or third-parties that will have access to the Company's data or information technology systems. The Company also carries cybercrime and business interruption insurance.
Over the past several years, the Company has significantly increased its investment in cybersecurity technology and training to help protect its information technology systems and operations in response to the ever-evolving cyber threat landscape. Additional resources have been and will be dedicated to expanding the Company’s ability to investigate and remediate any cybersecurity vulnerabilities, and to manage any impact of a cybersecurity event on its business and operations. 
In July 2018, the Company experienced a ransomware incident which affected certain Dx information technology systems. The incident temporarily affected test processing and customer access to test results, and also affected certain other information technology systems involved in conducting Company-wide operations. The investigation determined that the ransomware did not and could not transfer patient or client data outside of Company systems and that there was no theft or misuse of patient or client data.
The Company is also exposed to risks related to information security arising from the information technology systems and operations of third parties, including those of the Company's vendors and partners. For example, on May 14, 2019, Retrieval-Masters Credit Bureau, Inc. d/b/a/ American Medical Collections Agency (AMCA), an external collection agency, notified the Company about a security incident AMCA experienced that may have involved certain personal information about some of the
29
Index

Company's patients (the AMCA Incident). The Company referred patient balances to AMCA only when direct collection efforts were unsuccessful. The Company's systems were not impacted by the AMCA Incident. Upon learning of the AMCA Incident, the Company promptly stopped sending new collection requests to AMCA and stopped AMCA from continuing to work on any pending collection requests on behalf of the Company. AMCA informed the Company that it appeared that an unauthorized user had access to AMCA's system between August 1, 2018 and March 30, 2019, and that AMCA could not rule out the possibility that personal information on AMCA's system was at risk during that time period. Information on AMCA's affected system from the Company may have included name, address, and balance information for the patient and person responsible for payment, along with the patient's phone number, date of birth, referring physician, and date of service. The Company was later informed by AMCA that health insurance information may have been included for some individuals, and because some insurance carriers utilize the Social Security Number as a subscriber identification number, the Social Security Number for some individuals may also have been affected. No ordered tests, laboratory test results, or diagnostic information from the Company were in the AMCA affected system. The Company notified individuals for whom it had a valid mailing address. For the individuals whose Social Security Number was affected, the notice included an offer to enroll in credit monitoring and identity protection services that will be provided free of charge for 24 months. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, costs related to the AMCA Incident. The Company is involved in pending and threatened litigation related to the AMCA Incident, as well as various government and regulatory inquiries and processes. For additional information about the AMCA Incident, see Note 16 Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
