General
L3Harris Technologies, Inc. is an agile global aerospace and defense technology innovator, delivering end-to-end solutions that meet customers’ mission-critical needs. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1926 as the successor to three companies founded in the 1890s. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our,” “us,” “Company” and “L3Harris” as used in this Report mean the combined company L3Harris Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, when referring to periods after the end of fiscal 2019 (after the L3Harris Merger) and mean Harris and its subsidiaries when referring to periods prior to the end of fiscal 2019 (prior to the L3Harris Merger).
We provide advanced defense and commercial technologies across air, land, sea, space and cyber domains. We support government and commercial customers in more than 100 countries, with our largest customers being various departments and agencies of the U.S. Government and their prime contractors. Our products, systems and services have defense and civil government applications, as well as commercial applications. As of January 1, 2021, we had approximately 48,000 employees, including approximately 19,000 engineers and scientists.
1

We structure our operations primarily around the products, systems and services we sell and the markets we serve, and we report the financial results of our continuing operations in the following four reportable segments, which are also referred to as our business segments:
•Integrated Mission Systems, including multi-mission intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (“ISR”) and communication systems; integrated electrical and electronic systems for maritime platforms; and advanced electro-optical and infrared (“EO/IR”) solutions;
•Space and Airborne Systems, including space payloads, sensors and full-mission solutions; classified intelligence and cyber defense; mission avionics; and electronic warfare;
•Communication Systems, including tactical communications; broadband communications; integrated vision solutions; and public safety; and
•Aviation Systems, including defense aviation; commercial aviation products; commercial and military pilot training; and mission networks for air traffic management.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we adjusted our segment reporting to better align our businesses and transferred two businesses between our Integrated Mission Systems and Space and Airborne Systems segments. The historical results, discussion and presentation of our business segments as set forth in this Report reflect the impact of these changes to our segment reporting for all periods presented in order to present segment information on a comparable basis. There is no impact on our previously reported consolidated statements of income, balance sheets, statements of cash flows or statements of equity resulting from these changes.
L3Harris Merger
As noted above and described in more detail in Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies under “Principles of Consolidation” and Note 5: Business Combination in the Notes, we completed the L3Harris Merger on June 29, 2019, the day after Harris’ fiscal 2019 ended and the first day of our Fiscal Transition Period (as defined below). L3 was a prime contractor in ISR systems, aircraft sustainment (including modifications and fleet management of special mission aircraft), simulation and training, night vision and image intensification equipment, and security and detection systems. L3 also was a leading provider of a broad range of communication, electro-optical solutions, and electronic and sensor systems used on military, homeland security and commercial platforms. L3 customers included the U.S. Department of Defense (“DoD”) and its prime contractors, the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), foreign governments and domestic and foreign commercial customers.
Change in Fiscal Year
Through fiscal 2019, our fiscal years ended on the Friday nearest June 30. Commencing June 29, 2019, our fiscal year ends on the Friday nearest December 31. The period that commenced on June 29, 2019 was a fiscal transition period that ended on January 3, 2020 (“Fiscal Transition Period”), and our fiscal 2020 commenced on January 4, 2020 and ended on January 1, 2021.
Divestitures
As described in more detail in Note 3: Business Divestitures and Asset Sales and elsewhere in the Notes, during the Fiscal Transition Period and fiscal 2020, we completed the following business divestitures:
•The divestiture of the Harris Night Vision business, completed on September 13, 2019, the results of which are included in “Other non-reportable business segments” through the date of divestiture;
•The divestiture of the Security & Detection Systems and MacDonald Humfrey Automation solutions business (“airport security and automation business”), completed on May 4, 2020, the results of which are reported as part of our Aviation Systems segment through the date of divestiture;
•The divestiture of the Applied Kilovolts and Analytical Instrumentation business, completed on May 15, 2020, the results of which are reported as part of our Space and Airborne Systems segment through the date of divestiture; and
•The divestiture of the EOTech business, completed on July 31, 2020, the results of which are reported as part of our Communication Systems segment through the date of divestiture.
See Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes for further information regarding our business segments, including how we define segment operating income or loss.
Description of Business by Segment
Our four business segments provide a wide-range of products and services to various customers and are described below. For financial information with respect to our business segments, including revenue, operating income and total assets, and with respect to our operations outside the United States, see Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes, and for additional information with respect to our business segments, see “Discussion of Business Segment Results of Operations” in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report. For a discussion of certain risks
2

affecting our business segments, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers: Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.
Integrated Mission Systems
Integrated Mission Systems segment revenue of $5,538 million for fiscal 2020, represented 30 percent of our total revenue. This segment is comprised of three business sectors: ISR, Maritime and Electro Optical, the principal products and services of which are described below.
ISR: We develop, integrate and maintain multi-mission ISR and communication systems, including fleet management support services, sensor development, modifications and periodic depot maintenance for ISR and airborne missions. Significant customers include DoD and classified customers within the U.S. Government, U.K. Ministry of Defence, Royal Australian Air Force and other select foreign military services.
Maritime: We are a manufacturer and integrator of maritime integrated command, control, communications, computers and cyber ISR (“C5ISR”) systems for maritime platforms, specializing in signals intelligence and multi-intelligence platforms; unmanned surface and undersea autonomous solutions; power and ship control systems and other electronic and electrical products and systems. Significant customers include the U.S. Navy (“USN”), the U.S. Coast Guard, the U.S. Army, allied navies, other military customers and commercial ship owners.
Electro Optical: We design and manufacture advanced EO/IR sensors and surveillance and targeting systems and provide modernization and life extension maintenance upgrade and support services for military aircraft. Significant customers include the National Aeronautics Space Administration, DoD, USN, the U.S. Air Force (“USAF”), select foreign militaries and commercial space companies.
Additional information regarding the composition of Integrated Mission Systems revenue for fiscal 2020 is as follows:
•77 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;
•67 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and
•21 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.
For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.
Space and Airborne Systems
Space and Airborne Systems segment revenue of $4,946 million for fiscal 2020, represented 27 percent of our total revenue. This segment is comprised of four business sectors: Space, Intel & Cyber, Mission Avionics and Electronic Warfare, the principal products and services of which are described below.
Space: We provide intelligence, space protection, geospatial, complete Earth observation, universe exploration, positioning, navigation and timing (“PNT”) and environmental solutions for national security, defense, civil and commercial customers, using advanced sensors, antennas and payloads, as well as ground processing and information analytics. Many of these solutions include reliable resilient and innovative capabilities. We are a global provider of PNT products, systems and solutions. We also provide space antenna systems and precision space structures. We are an experienced space reflector manufacturer and specialize in large, high-accuracy reflectors, which can range from unfurlable and fixed-mesh reflector antennas to solid spot beam antennas. We are also a prime contractor developing and integrating end-to-end systems of satellites. Some of the more significant programs in this business sector include:
•Maintenance of Space Situational Awareness Integrated Capabilities (“MOSSAIC”), a program to provide sustainment services for current and future ground-based space domain awareness sensors and space battle management command and control capabilities for the U.S. Space Force and Missile Systems Center;
•Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite - Series R (“GOES-R”), a program to design, develop and build systems to measure, understand and monitor weather and environmental trends for the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
•Global Positioning System (“GPS”) III, a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the USAF.
As described in more detail in Note 3: Business Divestitures and Asset Sales and elsewhere in the Notes, on May 15, 2020, as part of our ongoing process to reshape our business portfolio to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, we completed the divestiture of our Applied Kilovolts and Analytical Instrumentation business.
Intel & Cyber: We provide situational awareness optical networks and advanced wireless solutions for classified intelligence and cyber defense. Although classified programs are generally not discussed in this Report, the operating results relating to classified programs are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements in this Report. We believe that the business risks
3

associated with our classified programs do not differ materially from the business risks associated with our other U.S. Government programs.
Mission Avionics: We provide avionic sensors, hardened electronics, release systems, data links and antennas supporting fixed wing and rotary platforms. Significant customers include military aircraft manufacturers, DoD customers within the U.S. Government and select foreign military services. For example, we provide advanced avionics components, carriage and release systems, sensors, encryption solutions, antenna systems and data processing technology for the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter (“F-35”) program, including development and production of the next generation integrated core processor, panoramic cockpit display unit and aircraft memory systems.
Electronic Warfare: We provide multi-spectral situational awareness, threat warning and countermeasures capabilities for electronic warfare solutions for airborne and maritime platforms. Significant customers include military aircraft manufacturers, DoD customers within the U.S. Government and select foreign military services.
Additional information regarding the composition of Space and Airborne Systems revenue for fiscal 2020 is as follows:
•90 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;
•54 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and
•15 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.
For a discussion of certain risks affecting this segment, including risks relating to our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts, see “Item 1. Business - Principal Customers; Government Contracts,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.
Communication Systems
Communication Systems segment revenue of $4,443 million for fiscal 2020, represented 24 percent of our total revenue. This segment is comprised of four business sectors: Tactical Communications, Broadband Communications, Integrated Vision Solutions and Public Safety, the principal products and services of which are described below.
Tactical Communications: We provide tactical radios to the U.S. Army, USAF, U.S. Marine Corps, USN, U.S. Special Operations Command (“SOCOM”) and international defense customers, including developing and manufacturing software-defined radios for key DoD network modernization programs. For example, we are providing Handheld, Manpack and Small Form-Fit (“HMS”) radios to the U.S. Army.
We operate in this market principally on a “commercial” market-driven business model. We believe our business model, which drives speed and innovation, coupled with the scale provided by our international presence, will continue to make us competitive in the global market for tactical radios as it undergoes a modernization cycle.
Broadband Communications: We develop, design, manufacture and integrate broadband secured mobile networked communication equipment, including airborne, space and surface data link terminals, ground stations and transportable tactical satellite communication (“SATCOM”) systems used on manned aircraft, unmanned aerial vehicles (“UAVs”) and naval ships. Significant customers include U.S. defense and intelligence agencies.
Integrated Visions Solutions: We provide a full suite of helmet and weapon mounted integrated night vision systems for U.S. and international customers. For the Enhanced Night Vision Goggle - Binocular (“ENVG-B”) program, we provide advanced helmet-mounted night vision goggles to DoD customers.
As described in more detail in Note 3: Business Divestitures and Asset Sales and elsewhere in the Notes, on July 31, 2020, as part of our ongoing process to reshape our business portfolio to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, we completed the divestiture of our EOTech business.
Public Safety: We provide radios, systems applications and equipment for critical public safety and professional communications to Federal, state and local government customers as well as to utility companies.
Global Communications Solutions: We provide SATCOM terminals and battlefield management networks for U.S. and international defense customers.
Additional information regarding the composition of Communication Systems revenue for fiscal 2020 is as follows:
•69 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;
•70 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and
•28 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.
4

Aviation Systems
Aviation Systems segment revenue of $3,448 million for fiscal 2020, represented 19 percent of our total revenue. This segment is comprised of four business sectors: Defense Aviation, Commercial Aviation Products, Commercial and Military Training and Mission Networks, the principal products and services of which are described below.
Defense Aviation: We provide precision engagement sensors and systems, small UAVs, antennas and arrays, radio frequency amplifiers and microwave electronic devices. In addition, this business sector provides combat vehicle engines, transmissions and GPS receivers for guided projectiles and precision munitions as well as navigation for fire control systems. Significant customers include U.S. defense and foreign military agencies.
Commercial Aviation Products: We provide airborne avionics products, such as traffic collision avoidance and flight recorders. Significant customers include commercial airplane manufacturers, commercial airlines and automotive manufacturers.
As described in more detail in Note 3: Business Divestitures and Asset Sales and elsewhere in the Notes, on May 4, 2020, as part of our ongoing process to reshape our business portfolio to focus on technology-differentiated, high-margin businesses, we completed the divestiture of our airport security and automation business.
Commercial and Military Training: We develop, install and maintain flight simulators and training systems that are customized to military and commercial aircraft. We also provide commercial and military pilot training services, including airline training for licensed pilots, academy programs for new cadets and flight school training for military pilots. Significant customers include commercial airlines, aircraft manufacturers, DoD and foreign military agencies.
Mission Networks: We provide mission-critical infrastructure communications and networking solutions for air traffic management for the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (“FAA”) and international airspace national service providers. We are the prime contractor and system architect for the FAA Telecommunications Infrastructure (“FTI”) program and several major FAA Next Generation Air Transportation System (“NextGen”) programs to transform and upgrade the National Airspace System (“NAS”), including the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (“ADS-B”) program.
Additional information regarding the composition of Aviation Systems revenue for fiscal 2020 is as follows:
•71 percent was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors;
•65 percent was derived from contracts under which we are the prime contractor; and
•18 percent was derived from products and services for which the end consumer is located outside the U.S.
International Business
Revenue from products and services where the end consumer is located outside the U.S., including foreign military sales through the U.S. Government, was $3.7 billion (20 percent of our revenue), $2.0 billion (21 percent of our revenue), $1.5 billion (22 percent of our revenue) and $1.4 billion (23 percent of our revenue) in fiscal 2020, the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, and fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. Direct export sales are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars, whereas sales from foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the local currency of the subsidiary. For financial information regarding our domestic and international operations, including long-lived assets, see Note 25: Business Segments in the Notes.
The majority of our international marketing activities are conducted through subsidiaries that operate in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and APAC (Asia-Pacific) regions and Canada. We also have established international marketing organizations and several regional sales offices. For further information regarding our international subsidiaries, see Exhibit 21 of this Report.
International revenue for fiscal 2020 came from a large number of countries, and no single foreign country accounted for more than 5 percent of our total revenue. Some of our exports are paid for by letters of credit, with the balance carried on an open account. Advance payments, progress payments or other similar payments received prior to or upon shipment often cover most of the related costs incurred. Significant foreign government contracts generally require us to provide performance guarantees. In order to remain competitive in international markets, we also enter into offset agreements or recourse or vendor financing arrangements to facilitate sales to certain customers.
We utilize indirect sales channels, including dealers, distributors and sales representatives, in the marketing and sale of some lines of products and equipment, both domestically and internationally. These independent representatives may buy for resale or, in some cases, solicit orders from commercial or government customers for direct sales by us. Prices to the ultimate customer in many instances may be recommended or established by the independent representative and may be above or below our list prices. Our dealers and distributors generally receive a discount from our list prices and may mark up those prices in setting the final sales prices paid by the customer.
The particular economic, social and political conditions for business conducted outside the U.S. differ from those encountered by businesses in the U.S. We believe that the overall business risk for our international business as a whole is somewhat greater than that faced by our domestic businesses as a whole. A description of the types of risks to which we are
5

subject in our international business is contained in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. In our opinion, these risks are partially mitigated by the diversification of our international business and the protection provided by letters of credit and advance payments, progress payments and other similar payments.
Competitive Conditions and Trends in Market Demand
We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Some of our competitors in each of our markets are larger than we are and can maintain higher levels of expenditures for research and development. In each of our markets, we concentrate on the opportunities that we believe are compatible with our resources, overall technological capabilities and objectives. Principal competitive factors in these markets are product quality and reliability; technological capabilities, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities; service; past performance; ability to develop and implement complex, integrated solutions; ability to meet delivery schedules; the effectiveness of third-party sales channels in international markets; and cost-effectiveness. We frequently “partner” or are involved in subcontracting and teaming relationships with companies that are, from time to time, competitors on other programs. We compete domestically and internationally against large aerospace and defense companies; principally, BAE Systems, Boeing, General Dynamics, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman, Raytheon Technologies and Thales; and, increasingly, non-traditional defense contractors.
For further discussion of trends in market demand, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.
Principal Customers; Government Contracts
The percentage of our revenue that was derived from sales to U.S. Government customers, including foreign military sales funded through the U.S. Government, whether directly or through prime contractors, was 78 percent, 73 percent, 77 percent and 75 percent in fiscal 2020, the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, and fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 5 percent of our revenue in fiscal 2020. Additional information regarding customers for each of our segments is provided under “Item 1. Business — Description of Business by Segment” of this Report. Our U.S. Government sales are predominantly derived from contracts with departments and agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Most of the sales in our Space and Airborne Systems and Integrated Mission Systems segments are made directly or indirectly to the U.S. Government under contracts or subcontracts containing standard government contract clauses providing for redetermination of profits, if applicable, and for termination for the convenience of the U.S. Government or for default based on performance.
Our U.S. Government contracts and subcontracts include both cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts. Government-wide Acquisition Contracts (“GWACs”) and multi-vendor indefinite duration-indefinite quantity (“IDIQ”) contracts, which can include task orders for each contract type, require us to compete both for the initial contract and then for individual task or delivery orders under such contracts.
Our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts provide for the reimbursement of allowable costs plus payment of a fee and fall into three basic types: (i) cost-plus fixed-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fixed fee irrespective of the final cost of performance; (ii) cost-plus incentive-fee contracts, which provide for payment of a fee that may increase or decrease, within specified limits, based on actual results compared with contractual targets relating to factors such as cost, performance and delivery schedule; and (iii) cost-plus award-fee contracts, which provide for payment of an award fee determined at the customer’s discretion based on our performance against pre-established performance criteria. Under our U.S. Government cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed periodically for allowable costs and are paid a portion of the fee based on contract progress. Some overhead costs have been made partially or wholly unallowable for reimbursement by statute or regulation. Examples include certain merger and acquisition costs, lobbying costs, charitable contributions, interest expense and certain litigation defense costs.
Our U.S. Government fixed-price contracts are either firm fixed-price contracts or fixed-price incentive contracts. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work or sell a specific product for a fixed price and, as a result, benefit from cost savings and carry the burden of cost overruns. Under our U.S. Government fixed-price incentive contracts, we share with the U.S. Government both savings accrued for performance at less than target cost as well as costs incurred in excess of target cost up to a negotiated ceiling price, which is higher than the target cost, but carry the entire burden of costs exceeding the negotiated ceiling price. Accordingly, under such incentive contracts, profit may also be adjusted up or down depending on whether specified performance objectives are met. Under our U.S. Government firm fixed-price and fixed-price incentive contracts, we generally receive from the U.S. Government either milestone payments totaling 100 percent of the contract price or monthly progress payments in amounts equaling 80 percent of costs incurred under the contract (however, in response to the novel COVID-19 strain of coronavirus pandemic (“COVID”), the U.S. Government has taken steps to increase the current rate for certain progress payments to 90 percent of costs incurred under relevant contracts to enhance cash flow and liquidity for the defense industrial base). The remaining amounts, including profits or incentive fees, are billed upon delivery and final acceptance of end items and deliverables under the contract. Our production contracts are mainly fixed-price contracts, and development contracts are generally cost-reimbursable contracts.
6

As stated above, U.S. Government contracts are terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, as well as for default based on performance. Companies supplying goods and services to the U.S. Government are dependent on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds and may be affected by changes in U.S. Government policies resulting from various military, political, economic and international developments. Long-term U.S. Government contracts and related orders are subject to cancellation if appropriations for subsequent performance periods become unavailable. Under contracts terminable for the convenience of the U.S. Government, a contractor is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and, in general, the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work done. Contracts that are terminable for default generally provide that the U.S. Government pays only for the work it has accepted and may require the contractor to pay for the incremental cost of re-procurement and may hold the contractor liable for damages. In many cases, there is also uncertainty relating to the complexity of designs, necessity for design improvements and difficulty in forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work. Under many U.S. Government contracts, we are required to maintain facility and personnel security clearances complying with DoD and other Federal agency requirements.
From time to time we may begin performance of a U.S. Government contract under an undefinitized contract action (“UCA”) with a not to exceed price before the terms, specifications or price are finally agreed to between the parties. In these arrangements, the U.S. Government has the ability to unilaterally definitize the contract if a mutual agreement regarding terms, specifications and price cannot be reached.
The U.S. Government has increased its focus on procurement process improvement initiatives and has implemented certain changes in its procurement practices. These developments may change the way U.S. Government contracts are solicited, negotiated and managed, which may affect whether and how we pursue opportunities to provide our products and services to the U.S. Government, including the terms and conditions under which we do so, which may have an adverse impact to our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and equity. For example, contracts awarded under the DoD’s Other Transaction Authority for research and prototypes generally require cost-sharing and may not follow, or may follow only in part, standard U.S. Government contracting practices and terms, such as the Federal Acquisition Regulation (“FAR”) and Cost Accounting Standards.
For further discussion of risks relating to U.S. Government contracts, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report.
Backlog
Company-wide total backlog was $21.7 billion at January 1, 2021, of which $16.3 billion was funded backlog, compared with $20.6 billion at January 3, 2020, of which $16.2 billion was funded backlog. Backlog at January 3, 2020 included $405 million associated with businesses divested in fiscal 2020, including $380 million of backlog associated with the airport security and automation business divested during the quarter ended July 3, 2020. We expect to recognize approximately 54 percent of the revenue associated with Company-wide total backlog by the end of 2021 and approximately 85 percent of the revenue associated with Company-wide total backlog by the end of 2023, with the remainder to be recognized thereafter. However, we can give no assurance of such fulfillment or that our backlog will become revenue in any particular period, if at all. Backlog is subject to delivery delays and program cancellations, which are beyond our control.
We define funded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government customers, appropriated. The level of order activity related to U.S. Government programs can be affected by the timing of U.S. Government funding authorizations and project evaluation cycles. Year-over-year comparisons could, at times, be impacted by these factors, among others.
We define unfunded backlog as unfilled firm orders for products and services for which funding has not been authorized and, in the case of U.S. Government customers, appropriated. The determination of the unfunded portion of total backlog involves substantial estimating, particularly with respect to customer requirements contracts and development and production contracts of a cost-reimbursable or incentive nature. We do not include the value of unexercised contract options or potential orders under IDIQ contracts in our unfunded backlog.
For backlog information for each of our business segments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.
See Note 24: Backlog in the Notes for additional information regarding Company-wide total backlog.
Research and Development (“R&D”)
Company-sponsored R&D costs, which include R&D for commercial products and services and independent R&D related to government products and services, were $684 million, $329 million, $331 million and $311 million in fiscal 2020, in the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, and fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. A portion of our independent R&D costs are allocated among contracts and programs in process under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Company-sponsored R&D costs not
7

otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. Company-sponsored research is directed to the development of new products and services and to building technological capability in various markets.
Customer-sponsored R&D costs are incurred pursuant to contractual arrangements, principally U.S. Government-sponsored contracts requiring us to provide a product or service meeting certain defined performance or other specifications (such as designs). This research helps strengthen and broaden our technical capabilities. Customer-sponsored research costs are accounted for principally by the cost-to-cost percentage-of-completion method and included in our revenue and cost of product sales and services.
Patents and Other Intellectual Property
We consider our patents and other intellectual property, in the aggregate, to constitute an important asset. We own a large portfolio of patents, trade secrets, know-how, confidential information, trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property, including reliable, resilient and innovative cyber capabilities, and we routinely apply for new patents, trademarks and copyrights. We also license intellectual property to and from third parties. As of January 1, 2021, we held approximately 2,300 U.S. patents and 2,100 foreign patents, and had approximately 250 U.S. patent applications pending and 400 foreign patent applications pending. Unpatented research, development and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to our business and the operations of our business segments, we do not consider our business or any business segment to be materially dependent on any single patent, license or other intellectual property right, or any group of related patents, licenses or other intellectual property rights. We are engaged in a proactive patent licensing program and have entered into a number of licenses and cross-license agreements, some of which generate royalty income. Although existing license agreements have generated income in past years and may do so in the future, there can be no assurances we will enter into additional income-producing license agreements. From time to time, we engage in litigation to protect our patents and other intellectual property. Any of our patents, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights could be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or may not provide competitive advantages. For further discussion of risks relating to intellectual property, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report. With regard to certain patents, the U.S. Government has an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free license, pursuant to which the U.S. Government may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by such patents. Pursuant to similar arrangements, the U.S. Government may consent to our use of inventions covered by patents owned by other persons. Numerous trademarks used on or in connection with our products are also considered to be a valuable asset.
Government Regulations
Our company is subject to various federal, state, local and international laws and regulations relating to the development, manufacturing, sale and distribution of our products, systems and services, and it is our policy to comply with the applicable laws in each jurisdiction in which we conduct business. Regulations include but are not limited to those related to import and export controls, corruption, bribery, environment, government procurement, wireless communications, competition, product safety, workplace health and safety, employment, labor and data privacy. The following describes significant regulations that may impact our businesses. For further discussion of risks relating to government regulations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.
Import/Export Regulations. We sell products and solutions to customers all over the world and are required to comply with U.S. Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions programs limiting or banning sales into certain countries. Countries outside of the U.S. have implemented similar controls and sanction regulations. Together these controls and regulations may impose licensing requirements on exports of certain technology and software from the U.S. and may impact our ability to transact business in certain countries or with certain customers. We have developed compliance programs and training to prevent violations of these programs and regulations, and we regularly monitor changes in the law and regulations and create strategies to deal with changes. Changes in the law may restrict or further restrict our ability to sell products and solutions.
Anti-Corruption Regulations. Because we have significant international operations, we must comply with complex regulations, including U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. We have compliance policies, programs and training to prevent non-compliance with such anti-corruption regulations in the U.S. and outside the U.S. We monitor pending and proposed legislation and regulatory changes that may impact our business and develop strategies to address the changes and incorporate them into existing compliance programs.
Environmental Regulations. Our facilities and operations are subject to numerous domestic and international laws and regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly with regard to waste and emissions. The applicable environmental laws and regulations are common within the industries and markets in which we operate and serve. We believe that we have complied with these requirements and that such compliance has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or equity. We have installed waste treatment facilities and pollution control equipment to satisfy legal requirements and to achieve our waste minimization and prevention goals. A portion of our environmental expenditures relates to businesses or operations we no longer own, but for which we have retained certain environmental liabilities. We did not spend material amounts on environmental-related capital projects in fiscal 2020, the two quarters ended January 3, 2020, or fiscal
8

2019 or 2018. Based on currently available information, we do not expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2021 or over the next several years to protect the environment and to comply with current environmental laws and regulations, as well as to comply with current and pending climate control legislation, regulation, treaties and accords, to be material or to have a material impact on our competitive position or financial condition, but we can give no assurance that such expenditures will not exceed current expectations, and such expenditures may increase in future years. If future treaties, laws and regulations contain more stringent requirements than presently anticipated, actual expenditures may be higher than our present estimates of those expenditures.
Additional information regarding environmental and regulatory matters is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” of this Report and in Note 1: Significant Accounting Policies and Note 26: Legal Proceedings and Contingencies in the Notes.
Electronic products are subject to governmental environmental regulation in a number of jurisdictions, such as domestic and international requirements requiring end-of-life management and/or restricting materials in products delivered to customers, including the European Union’s Directive 2012/19/EU on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Directive 2011/65/EU on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (“RoHS”), as amended. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation. Such requirements typically are not applicable to most equipment produced by our segments. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations, where applicable, with respect to our existing products sold into such jurisdictions. We intend to comply with such rules and regulations with respect to our future products.
Wireless Communications Regulations. Wireless communications, whether radio, satellite or telecommunications, are also subject to governmental regulation. Equipment produced in our Communication Systems and Space and Airborne Systems segments, in particular, is subject to domestic and international requirements to avoid interference among users of radio and television frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. We are also required to comply with technical operating and licensing requirements that pertain to our wireless licenses and operations. We believe that we have complied with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our existing products and services, and we intend to comply with such rules and regulations and licenses with respect to our future products and services. Governmental reallocation of the frequency spectrum could impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Raw Materials and Supplies
Because of the diversity of our products and services, as well as the wide geographic dispersion of our facilities, we use numerous sources for the wide array of raw materials, such as electronic components, printed circuit boards, metals and plastics, needed for our operations and for our products. We are dependent on suppliers and subcontractors for a large number of components and subsystems and the ability of our suppliers and subcontractors to adhere to customer or regulatory materials restrictions and to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery schedules. In some instances, we are dependent on one or a few sources, either because of the specialized nature of a particular item or because of local content preference requirements pursuant to which we operate on a given project. In addition, in connection with our U.S. Government contracts, we are required to procure certain materials, components and parts, including microelectronics components, from supply sources approved by the U.S. Government, which may limit the suppliers and subcontractors we may utilize. Although we have been affected by financial and performance issues of some of our suppliers and subcontractors, we have not been materially adversely affected by the inability to obtain raw materials or products. On occasion, we have experienced component shortages from vendors as a result of natural disasters, or the RoHS environmental regulations in the European Union or similar regulations in other jurisdictions. These events or regulations may cause a spike in demand for certain electronic components, such as lead-free components, resulting in industry-wide supply chain shortages. As of January 1, 2021, these component shortages have not had a material adverse effect on our business. For further discussion of risks relating to subcontractors and suppliers, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Report.
Seasonality
We do not consider any material portion of our business to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our revenue between accounting periods, including the timing of contract awards and the timing and availability of U.S. Government funding, as well as the timing of product deliveries and customer acceptance.
Human Capital
As a global aerospace and defense technology company, we depend on our highly educated and skilled workforce for our success. Attracting, developing, motivating and retaining highly skilled employees, particularly those with technical, engineering and science backgrounds and experience, is a critical factor in our ability to execute our strategic priorities. We use human capital measures to set goals and monitor performance in several areas, including employee health and safety; talent acquisition, development and retention; and diversity and inclusion.
Workforce Demographics. We had approximately 48,000 employees at January 1, 2021, including approximately 19,000 engineers and scientists. Approximately 88 percent of our employees are located in the U.S. and a significant number of our employees possess a U.S. Government security clearance. As of January 1, 2021, approximately 3,100 of our U.S. employees
9

were covered by various labor union collective bargaining agreements, which we expect will be renegotiated as they expire, as we historically have done without significant disruption to operating activities.
Health and Safety. We strive to maintain a safe work environment for all employees and eliminate workplace incidents, risks and hazards. We review and monitor our performance closely to reduce Occupational Safety and Health Administration reportable incidents. For fiscal 2020, our total recordable injury rate and lost day injury rate declined 34 percent and 43 percent, respectively, compared with the previous year, and numerous locations across L3Harris have reached one year or more without a recordable injury. In response to COVID, we implemented safety measures in our facilities to ensure the overall health and wellness of our workforce. For example, we instituted work-from-home (for employees who are able to work remotely) and social distancing arrangements; canceled non-essential travel and external events; procured personal protective equipment for employees; implemented health screening procedures at all facilities; staggered work shifts, redesigned work stations, implemented stringent cleaning protocols and initiated more detailed safety precautions and protocols for on-site work, such as daily health assessments and mandatory face coverings, which currently remain in effect.
Talent Acquisition, Development and Retention. Our talent acquisition, development and retention strategy is focused on attracting the best talent, recognizing and rewarding performance and continually developing, engaging and retaining high-performing employees. We support and develop our employees through global training that promotes our “e3” operating system (excellence, everywhere, everyday). We provide ongoing training and career development focused on compliance with our Code of Conduct, ethics and laws applicable to our businesses; skills and competencies directly related to employees’ positions; and responsibility for personal safety and the safety of fellow employees, others and the environment. We offer competitive salaries, development programs that enable continued learning and growth and a comprehensive benefits package, including health care, retirement planning, educational assistance, child and elder back-up care, paid parental leave and a discretionary paid time off program. In addition, we have established a comprehensive employee survey process to help us better understand the total employee experience, including periodic engagement surveys. In fiscal 2020, 82 percent of our employees participated in our engagement survey, exceeding the benchmark of 75 percent.
Diversity and Inclusion. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to continue to innovate and develop new solutions to solve our customers’ most critical challenges, and that diversity of thought, experience, perspectives and backgrounds drives innovation. We are investing in an inclusive and diverse workforce by supporting a variety of science, technology, engineering and mathematic initiatives focused on underserved communities. We believe these efforts will help encourage a broader range of students to consider careers in engineering and science. We also have established a diversity council, comprised of employee resource group leadership and executives from across the company, to evaluate and influence the strategies, policies and steps we take to advance diversity and inclusion. We have established two clear long-term goals with respect to the diversity of our workforce: (1) that half of our employees will be women and (2) that at least a third of our employees will be persons of color. Through the above and other efforts, we have improved the diversity of our workforce and we continue to set higher goals. The table below provides the makeup of our workforce in fiscal 2020:
											
	Overall		Executive
Female population	24%		31%
Persons of color	24%		17%
Persons with disabilities	6%		4%
Veterans	15%		14%
Generational breakout(1):
			
Boomers (1945-1964)	31%		35%
Generation X (1965-1980)	35%		55%
Millennials (1981-1996)	32%		10%
Generation Z (after 1996)	2%		—%
_______________
(1)Age ranges align with Pew Research Center definitions. “Traditionalists” represent less than 1 percent of our employee population.
Additional information regarding our human capital strategy is available in our Diversity and Inclusion 2020 Annual Report that can be found on our company website. Information on our website, including our Diversity and Inclusion 2020 Annual Report, is not incorporated by reference into this Report.
Website Access to L3Harris Reports; Available Information
General. We maintain an Internet website at https://www.l3harris.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, this Report, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after
10

these reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). We also will provide the reports in electronic or paper form free of charge upon request to our Secretary at L3Harris Technologies, Inc., 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919. We also make available free of charge on our website our annual report to shareholders and proxy statement. Our website and the information posted thereon are not incorporated into this Report or any current or other periodic report that we file with or furnish to the SEC. All reports we file with or furnish to the SEC also are available free of charge via the SEC’s electronic data gathering and retrieval, or EDGAR, system available through the SEC’s website at https://www.sec.gov.
Additional information relating to our business, including our business segments, is set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Report.
Corporate Governance Guidelines and Committee Charters. We previously adopted Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are available on the Corporate Governance section of our website at https://www.l3harris.com/company/environmental-social-and-governance. In addition, the charters of each of the standing committees of our Board of Directors, namely, the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, are also available on the Corporate Governance section of our website. A copy of the charters is also available free of charge upon written request to our Secretary at L3Harris Technologies, Inc., 1025 West NASA Boulevard, Melbourne, Florida 32919.
Certifications. We have filed with the SEC the certifications required by Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as exhibits to this Report. In addition, an annual CEO certification was submitted by our Chief Executive Officer to the NYSE in May 2020 in accordance with the NYSE’s listing standards, which included a certification that he was not aware of any violation by L3Harris of the NYSE’s corporate governance listing standards.
