Lincoln National Corporation (“LNC,” which also may be referred to as “Lincoln,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is a holding company, which operates multiple insurance and retirement businesses through subsidiary companies.  Through our business segments, we sell a wide range of wealth protection, accumulation, retirement income and group protection products and solutions.  LNC was organized under the laws of the state of Indiana in 1968.  We currently maintain our principal executive offices in Radnor, Pennsylvania.  “Lincoln Financial Group” is the marketing name for LNC and its subsidiary companies.  As of December 31, 2020, LNC had consolidated assets of $365.9 billion and consolidated stockholders’ equity of $22.7 billion.

 

We provide products and services and report results through four segments as follows:

 

 

 
	

 

 
	

 

Business Segments
	

 

Annuities
	

 

Retirement Plan Services
	

 

Life Insurance
	

 

Group Protection
	

 

 

We also have Other Operations, which includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.  

 

The results of Lincoln Financial Network (“LFN”) and Lincoln Financial Distributors (“LFD”), our retail and wholesale distributors, respectively, are included in the segments for which they distribute products.  LFD distributes our individual products and services, retirement plans and corporate-owned universal life insurance and variable universal life insurance (“COLI”) and bank-owned universal life insurance and variable universal life insurance (“BOLI”) products and services.  The distribution occurs primarily through consultants, brokers, planners, agents, financial advisers, third-party administrators (“TPAs”) and other intermediaries.  Group Protection distributes its products and services primarily through employee benefit brokers, TPAs and other employee benefit firms.  As of December 31, 2020, LFD had approximately 560 internal and external wholesalers (including sales and relationship managers).  As of December 31, 2020, LFN offered LNC and non-proprietary products and advisory services through a national network of approximately 13,500 active producers who placed business with us within the last 24 months.

 

Financial information in the tables that follow is presented in accordance with United States of America generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), unless otherwise indicated.  We provide revenues, income (loss) from operations and assets attributable to each of our business segments and Other Operations in Note 22.  

 

Acquisitions and Dispositions

 

On May 1, 2018, we completed the acquisition from Liberty Mutual Insurance Company of 100% of the capital stock of Liberty Life Assurance Company of Boston (“Liberty Life”), an operator of a group benefits business (the “Liberty Group Business”) and an individual life and individual and group annuity business (the “Liberty Life Business”).  In connection with the acquisition, Liberty Life sold the Liberty Life Business on May 1, 2018, by entering into reinsurance agreements and related ancillary documents with Protective Life Insurance Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Protective Life and Annuity Insurance Company (together with Protective Life Insurance Company, “Protective”), providing for the reinsurance and administration of the Liberty Life Business.  Liberty Life’s excess capital of $1.8 billion was paid to Liberty Mutual Insurance Company through an extraordinary dividend at the acquisition date.  We paid $1.5 billion of cash to Liberty Mutual Insurance Company to acquire the Liberty Group Business.  Effective September 1, 2019, Liberty Life’s name was changed to Lincoln Life Assurance Company of Boston (“LLACB”).

 

For further information about acquisitions and dispositions, see Note 3.

 

 

1

Table of Contents

 

 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND OTHER OPERATIONS

 

ANNUITIES

 

Overview

 

The Annuities segment provides tax-deferred investment growth and lifetime income opportunities for its clients by offering variable annuities, fixed (including indexed) annuities and indexed variable annuities.  The “fixed” and “variable” classifications describe whether we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets supporting the contract.  With “indexed variable” annuities, the extent to which we or the contract holders bear the investment risk of the assets is based on the investment allocations.  The annuity classification also determines the manner in which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products, as asset-based fees charged to variable products, or as both for indexed variable products. 

 

Annuities have several features that are attractive to customers.  Annuities are unique in that contract holders can select a variety of payout alternatives to provide an income flow for life.  Many annuity contracts also include guarantee features (living and death benefits) that are not found in any other investment vehicle and that, we believe, make annuities attractive especially in times of economic uncertainty.  In addition, growth on the underlying principal in certain annuities is granted tax-deferred treatment, thereby deferring the tax consequences of the growth in value until withdrawals are made from the accumulation values, often at lower tax rates occurring during retirement.

 

Products 

 

In general, an annuity is a contract between an insurance company and an individual in which the insurance company, after receipt of one or more premium payments, agrees to pay an amount of money either in one lump sum or on a periodic basis (i.e., annually, semi-annually, quarterly or monthly), beginning on a certain date and continuing for a period of time as specified in the contract or as requested.  Periodic payments can begin within 12 months after the premium is received (referred to as an immediate annuity) or at a future date in time (referred to as a deferred annuity).  This retirement vehicle helps protect an individual from outliving his or her money. 

 

Variable Annuities 

 

A variable annuity provides the contract holder the ability to direct the investment of premium deposits into one or more variable sub-accounts (“variable funds”) offered through the product (“variable portion”) and, for a specified period, into a fixed account (if available) with a guaranteed return (“fixed portion”).  The value of the variable portion of the contract holder’s account varies with the performance of the underlying variable funds chosen by the contract holder.  

 

Our variable funds include the Managed Risk Strategies fund options, a series of funds that embed volatility risk management and, with some funds, capital protection strategies inside the funds themselves.  These funds seek to reduce equity market volatility risk for both the contract holder and us.  As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Managed Risk Strategies funds totaled $43.0 billion and $42.0 billion, respectively, or 34% of total variable annuity product account values.

 

We charge mortality and expense assessments and administrative fees on variable annuity accounts to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  These assessments are built into accumulation unit values, which when multiplied by the number of units owned for any variable fund equals the contract holder’s account value for that variable fund.  In addition, for some contracts, we impose surrender charges, which are typically applicable to withdrawals during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.

 

We offer guaranteed benefit riders with certain of our variable annuity products, such as a guaranteed death benefit (“GDB”), a guaranteed withdrawal benefit (“GWB”), a guaranteed income benefit (“GIB”) and a combination of such benefits.  In 2020, 69% of our variable annuity deposits were on products without guaranteed living benefit (“GLB”) riders, compared to 47% in 2019.

 

The GDB features offered include those where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, depending on the particular product, we will return no less than:  the current contract value; the total deposits made to the contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals; or the highest contract value on a specified anniversary date adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals following the contract anniversary.

 

 

 

2

Table of Contents

 

 

We offer optional benefit riders including the Lincoln Lifetime IncomeSM Advantage 2.0 (Managed Risk), Lincoln Market SelectSM Advantage and Max 6 SelectSM Advantage riders.  All provide contract holders with protected lifetime income that is based on a maximum rate of the income base that grows annually at either the greater of a specified simple rate (available each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time) or account value growth.  The riders provide higher income if the contract holder delays withdrawals.  The Lincoln Lifetime Income Advantage 2.0 (Managed Risk) and Lincoln Market Select Advantage riders are hybrid benefit riders combining aspects of GWB and GIB that provide a specified maximum rate of the income base or income through the i4LIFE® Advantage rider with the GIB.  The Lincoln Max 6 Select Advantage rider provides contract holders with protected lifetime income up to a specified maximum rate of the income base and a different specified maximum rate of the income base if the account value falls to zero.  Contract holders under the Lincoln Lifetime Income SM Advantage 2.0 (Managed Risk) rider are subject to the allocation of their account value to our Managed Risk Strategies fund options and certain fixed-income options.  Contract holders under the Lincoln Market Select SM Advantage and Lincoln Max 6 Select SM Advantage riders are subject to restrictions on the allocation of their account value within the various investment choices. 

 

We also offer the American Legacy® Target Date Income variable annuity with an optional Target Date Income Benefit rider, which combines target date investing with a protected lifetime income.  Contract holders who elect the Target Date Income Benefit are automatically allocated to the Target Date Fund based on their year of birth.  The protected lifetime income is based on a percentage rate of income for their age at the time of purchase of the optional rider, which will grow at the greater of a specified simple rate (available each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time) or account value growth.

 

In addition, we offer the i4LIFE® Advantage, i4LIFE Advantage Guaranteed Income Benefit (Managed Risk) and i4LIFE Advantage Select Guaranteed Income Benefit riders.  These riders allow variable annuity contract holders access and control during a portion of the income distribution phase of their contract.  This added flexibility allows the contract holder to access the account value for transfers, additional withdrawals and other service features like portfolio rebalancing.  In general, GIB is an optional feature available with the i4LIFE Advantage rider and a non-optional feature on the i4LIFE Advantage Guaranteed Income Benefit (Managed Risk) and i4LIFE Advantage Select Guaranteed Income Benefit riders that guarantees regular income payments will not fall below the greater of a minimum income floor set at benefit issue and 75% of the highest income payment on a specified anniversary date (reduced for any subsequent withdrawals).  Contract holders under the i4LIFE Advantage Guaranteed Income Benefit (Managed Risk) rider are subject to the allocation of their account value to our Managed Risk Strategies fund options and certain fixed-income options.  Contract holders under the i4LIFE Advantage Select Guaranteed Income Benefit rider are subject to restrictions on the allocation of their account value within the various investment choices.  

 

We also offer the 4LATER® Select Advantage rider.  This rider provides a minimum income base used to determine the GIB floor when a client begins income payments under the i4LIFE Advantage Select Guaranteed Income Benefit rider.  The 4LATER Select Advantage rider provides growth during the accumulation phase through both an enhancement to the income base each year a withdrawal is not taken for a specified period of time and an annual step-up of the income base to the current contract value.  Contract holders under the 4LATER Select Advantage rider are subject to restrictions on the allocation of their account value within the various investment choices.

 

We design and actively manage the features and structure of our guaranteed benefit riders to maintain a competitive suite of products consistent with profitability and risk management goals.  To mitigate the increased risks associated with guaranteed benefits, we utilize a dynamic hedging program.  The customized dynamic hedging program uses equity, interest rate and currency futures positions, interest rate and total return swaps and equity-based options depending upon the risks underlying the guarantees.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.  For information regarding risks related to guaranteed benefits, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in the equity markets, interest rates and/or volatility affect the profitability of our products with guaranteed benefits; therefore, such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability.”

 

Fixed Annuities 

 

A fixed annuity preserves the principal value of the contract while guaranteeing a minimum interest rate to be credited to the accumulation value.  Our fixed annuity product offerings consist of traditional fixed-rate and fixed indexed deferred annuities, as well as fixed-rate immediate and deferred income annuities with various payment options, including lifetime incomes.  Fixed annuity contracts are general account obligations.  We bear the investment risk for fixed annuity contracts.  To protect from premature withdrawals, we impose surrender charges.  Surrender charges are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.  On most policies, within the surrender charge period, we also have a market value adjustment provision that protects us against disintermediation risk in the case of rapidly rising interest rates.  We expect to earn a spread between what we earn on the underlying general account investments supporting the fixed annuity product line and what we credit to our fixed annuity contract holders’ accounts.

 

We offer single and flexible premium fixed deferred annuities.  Single premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow only a single premium to be paid.  Flexible premium fixed deferred annuities are contracts that allow multiple premium payments, subject to contractual limits, on either a scheduled or non-scheduled basis.  

 

 

 

3

Table of Contents

 

 

Our fixed indexed annuities allow the contract holder to choose between a fixed interest crediting rate and an indexed interest crediting rate, which is based on the performance of the S&P 500® Index, the S&P 500 Daily Risk Control 5%TM Index, the J.P. Morgan First Trust Balanced Capital Strength 6SM Index, J.P. Morgan First Trust Balanced Capital Strength 5SM  Index, the BlackRock iBLD Ascenda® Index, or the Fidelity AIMSM Dividend Index.  The indexed interest credit is guaranteed never to be less than zero.  

 

We also offer the i4LIFE Indexed Advantage rider on certain fixed indexed annuities which provides fixed indexed annuity contract holders with access and control during a portion of the income phase of their contract.  i4LIFE Indexed Advantage contracts may include a GIB that guarantees regular income payments will not fall below a minimum income floor.  The GIB has the opportunity to increase, should regular income payments increase over the current GIB.  

 

We use derivatives to hedge the equity market risk associated with our fixed indexed annuity products.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.

 

Indexed Variable Annuities

 

Our indexed variable annuity, Lincoln Level Advantage®, provides the contract holder the ability to direct the investment of premium deposits into one or more variable sub-accounts (“variable funds”) and/or indexed accounts offered through the product.  The value of the variable sub-accounts varies with the performance of the underlying variable funds chosen by the contract holder.  The index interest crediting rate for an indexed account is based, in part, on the performance of an index.  The available indices are the S&P 500® Index, the Russell 2000® Index, the MSCI EAFE and the Capital Strength Net Fee IndexSM. 

 

We charge mortality and expense assessments and administrative fees on the variable funds to cover insurance and administrative expenses.  These assessments are built into accumulation unit values, which when multiplied by the number of units owned for any variable fund equals the contract holder’s account value for that variable fund.  In addition, for some contracts, we impose surrender charges, which are typically applicable during the early years of the annuity contract, with a declining level of surrender charges over time.

 

We offer a guaranteed death benefit rider where we contractually guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, depending on the particular product, we will return no less than the current contract value or the total deposits made to the contract, adjusted to reflect any partial withdrawals.

 

We also offer the i4LIFE® Advantage rider.  This rider allows annuity contract holders access and control during a portion of the income distribution phase of their contract.  This added flexibility allows the contract holder to access the account value for transfers, additional withdrawals and other service features like portfolio rebalancing.  

 

We use derivatives to hedge the equity market risk associated with our indexed variable annuity products.  For more information on our hedging program, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives” and “Realized Gain (Loss) and Benefit Ratio Unlocking” in the MD&A.

 

Distribution  

 

The Annuities segment distributes its individual fixed and variable annuity products through LFD.  LFD’s distribution channels give the Annuities segment access to its target markets.  LFD distributes the segment’s products to a large number of financial intermediaries, including LFN.  The financial intermediaries include wire/regional firms, independent financial planners, financial institutions, registered investment advisers and managing general agents.

 

Competition 

 

The annuities market is very competitive and consists of many companies, with no one company dominating the market for all products.  The Annuities segment competes with numerous other financial services companies.  The main factors upon which entities in this market compete are distribution channel access and the quality of wholesalers, investment performance, cost, broad product portfolio and features, speed to market, brand recognition, financial strength ratings, crediting rates and client service.

 

RETIREMENT PLAN SERVICES

 

Overview

 

The Retirement Plan Services segment provides employers with retirement plan products and services, primarily in the defined contribution retirement plan marketplace.  Defined contribution plans are a popular employee benefit offered by employers large and small across a wide spectrum of industries.  While our focus is employer-sponsored defined contribution plans, we also serve the defined benefit plan and individual retirement account (“IRA”) markets on a limited basis.  We provide a variety of plan investment vehicles, including individual and group variable annuities, group fixed annuities and mutual fund-based programs.  We also offer a broad array of 

 

 

4

Table of Contents

 

plan services including plan recordkeeping, compliance testing, participant education and trust and custodial services through our affiliated trust company, the Lincoln Financial Group Trust Company.  

 

Products and Services

 

The Retirement Plan Services segment currently brings three primary offerings to the employer-sponsored market:  LINCOLN DIRECTORSM group variable annuity, LINCOLN ALLIANCE® program and Multi-Fund® variable annuity.  The LINCOLN ALLIANCE program is a mutual fund-based record-keeping platform.  These offerings primarily cover the 403(b), 401(k) and 457 plan marketplace.  The 403(b) plans are available to educational institutions, not-for-profit healthcare organizations and certain other not-for-profit entities; 401(k) plans are generally available to for-profit entities; and 457 plans are available to not-for-profit entities and state and local government entities.  The investment options for our annuities encompass the spectrum of asset classes with varying levels of risk and include both equity and fixed-income.  

 

LINCOLN DIRECTORSM group variable annuity is a 401(k) defined contribution retirement plan solution available to small businesses, typically those with plans having less than $10 million in account values.  The LINCOLN DIRECTOR product offers participants a broad array of investment options from several fund families and a fixed account.  The Retirement Plan Services segment earns revenue through asset charges and/or separate account charges, which are used to pay our fees for recordkeeping services.  We also receive fees from the underlying mutual fund companies for the services we provide, and we earn investment margins on assets in the fixed account.

 

The LINCOLN ALLIANCE® program is a defined contribution retirement plan solution aimed at small, mid-large and large market employers, typically those that have defined contribution plans with $10 million or more in account value.  The target market is primarily healthcare providers, public sector employers, corporations and educational institutions.  The program bundles our traditional fixed annuity products with the employer’s choice of mutual funds, along with recordkeeping, plan compliance services and customized employee education services.  The program allows the use of any mutual fund.  We earn fees for our recordkeeping and educational services and other services that we provide to plan sponsors and participants.  We also earn investment margins on fixed annuities.  We also offer our proprietary YourPath® portfolios, a series of target-date portfolios for employer-sponsored retirement plans.  These target-date portfolios are managed along multiple risk-based paths to support a more personalized investment approach based upon financial circumstances and risk tolerance.

 

Multi-Fund® variable annuity is a defined contribution retirement plan solution with fully bundled administrative services and investment choices for small- to mid-sized healthcare, education, governmental and not-for-profit employers sponsoring 403(b), 457(b) and 401(a)/(k) plans.  The product is available to the employer through the Multi-Fund group variable annuity contract or directly to the individual participant through the Multi-Fund Select variable annuity contract.  We earn mortality and expense charges, investment income on the fixed account and surrender charges from this product.  We also receive fees for services that we provide to funds in the underlying separate accounts. 

 

Additionally, we offer other products and services that complement our primary offerings:

 

The Lincoln Next Step® series of products is a suite of mutual fund-based IRAs available exclusively for participants in Lincoln-serviced retirement plans and their spouses.  The products can accept rollovers and transfers from other providers as well as ongoing contributions.  The Lincoln Next Step IRA product has no annual account charges and offers an array of mutual fund investment options provided by 20 fund families all offered at net asset value.  The Lincoln Next Step Select IRA has an annual record keeping charge and offers an even wider array of mutual fund investment options from over 20 families, all at net asset value.  We earn 12b-1 and service fees on the mutual funds within the product.

The Lincoln Pathbuilder IncomeSM product is a GWB made available through a group variable annuity contract.  This product is intended to fulfill future needs of retirement security.  By offering a GWB inside a retirement plan, we provide plan sponsors a solution that gives participants the ability to participate in the market and receive guaranteed income for life while still maintaining access to their plan account balance.

Through a group annuity contract, we offer fixed annuity products to retirement plans where we do not provide plan recordkeeping services.  The fixed annuity is used within small, mid-large and large market employers covering the 403(b), 401(a)/(k) and 457 plan marketplaces.  The annuity provides a conservative investment option for those plan participants seeking stability.  In some cases, we earn investment margins on assets in the fixed account, and in other product versions we earn a fee on assets in the underlying custodial account.  

 

Distribution 

 

Retirement Plan Services products are primarily distributed in two ways:  through our Institutional Retirement Distribution team and by LFD.  Wholesalers distribute these products through advisers, consultants, banks, wirehouses and individual planners.  We remain focused on wholesaler productivity, increasing relationship management expertise and growing the number of broker-dealer relationships. 

 

The Multi-Fund program is sold primarily by affiliated advisers.  The LINCOLN ALLIANCE program is sold primarily through consultants, registered independent advisers and both affiliated and non-affiliated financial advisers, planners and wirehouses.  

 

 

5

Table of Contents

 

LINCOLN DIRECTOR group variable annuity is sold in the small marketplace by intermediaries, including financial advisers and planners.

 

Competition 

 

The retirement plan marketplace is very competitive and is comprised of many providers with no one company dominating the market for all products.  As stated above, we compete with numerous other financial services corporations in the small, mid and large employer markets.  The main factors upon which entities in this market compete are product strength, technology, service model delivery, participant education models, quality wholesale distribution access to intermediary firms and comprehensive marketing efforts to create brand recognition.  Our key differentiator is our high-touch, high-tech, digitally focused service model, which has been shown to drive positive outcomes for plan sponsors and participants. 

 

LIFE INSURANCE

 

Overview

 

The Life Insurance segment focuses on the creation and protection of wealth for its clients by providing life insurance products, including term insurance, both single (including COLI and BOLI) and survivorship versions of universal life insurance (“UL”), variable universal life insurance (“VUL”) and indexed universal life insurance (“IUL”) products, a linked-benefit product (which is UL with riders providing for long-term care costs), and critical illness and long-term care riders, which can be attached to UL, VUL or IUL policies.  Some of our products include secondary guarantees, which are discussed more fully below.  Generally, this segment has higher sales during the second half of the year with the fourth quarter being the strongest.  Mortality margins, morbidity margins, investment margins, expense margins and surrender fees drive life insurance profits. 

 

Similar to the annuity product classifications described above, life products can be classified as “fixed” (including indexed) or “variable” contracts.  This classification describes whether we or the contract holders bear the primary investment risk of the assets supporting the policy.  This also determines the manner in which we earn investment margin profits from these products, either as investment spreads for fixed products or as asset-based fees charged to variable products. 

 

Products 

 

We offer four categories of life insurance products, consisting of: 

 

UL and IUL

 

UL insurance products provide life insurance with account values that earn rates of return based on company-declared interest rates.  Contract holder account values are invested in our general account investment portfolio, so we bear the risk of investment performance.  We offer UL products, such as Lincoln LifeGuarantee® UL and Lincoln LifeGuarantee SUL.  We also offer a UL BOLI product.   

 

In a UL contract, contract holders typically have flexibility in the timing and amount of premium payments and the amount of death benefit, provided there is sufficient account value to cover all policy charges for cost of insurance and expenses for the coming period.  Under certain contract holder options and market conditions, the death benefit amount may increase or decrease.  Premiums received on a UL product, net of expense loads and charges, are added to the contract holder’s account value and accrued with interest.  The client has access to their account value (or a portion thereof), less surrender charges and policy loan payoffs, through contractual liquidity features such as loans, partial withdrawals and full surrenders.  Loans and withdrawals reduce the death benefit amount payable and are limited to certain contractual maximums (some of which are required under state law), and interest is charged on all loans.  Our UL contracts assess surrender charges against the policies’ account values for full or partial surrenders and certain policy changes that occur during the contractual surrender charge period.  Depending on the product selected, surrender charge periods can range from 0 to 25 years.

 

We also offer fixed IUL products that function similarly to a traditional UL policy, with the added flexibility of allowing contract holders to have portions of their account values earn credits based on the performance of indexes such as the S&P 500® Index.  These products include Lincoln WealthPreserve® IUL, Lincoln WealthAccumulate® IUL and Lincoln WealthAdvantage® IUL.

 

As mentioned previously, we offer survivorship versions of our individual UL products, such as Lincoln LifeGuarantee SUL.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the second death.  

 

A UL policy with a lifetime secondary guarantee can stay in force, even if the base policy cash value is zero, as long as secondary guarantee requirements have been met.  These products include Lincoln LifeGuarantee UL and Lincoln LifeGuarantee SUL.  The secondary guarantee requirement is based on the payment of a required minimum premium or on the evaluation of a reference value within the policy, calculated in a manner similar to the base policy account value, but using different expense charges, cost of insurance charges and credited interest rates.  The parameters for the secondary guarantee requirement are listed in the contract.  As long as the contract holder pays the minimum premium or funds the policy to a level that keeps this calculated reference value positive, the policy is guaranteed to 

 

 

6

Table of Contents

 

stay in force.  The reference value has no actual monetary value to the contract holder; it is only a calculated value used to determine whether or not the policy will lapse should the base policy cash value be less than zero.  

 

VUL

 

VUL products are UL products that provide a return on account values linked to an underlying investment portfolio of variable funds offered through the product.  The value of the variable portion of the contract holder’s account is driven by the performance of the underlying variable funds chosen by the contract holder.  As the return on the investment portfolio increases or decreases, the account value of the VUL policy will increase or decrease.  In addition, VUL products offer a fixed account option that is managed by us.  As with fixed UL products, contract holders have access, within contractual maximums, to account values through loans, withdrawals and surrenders.  Surrender charges are assessed during the surrender charge period, ranging from 0 to 20 years depending on the product.  Our single life VUL offerings include Lincoln AssetEdge® VUL and Lincoln VULONE insurance products.  Our COLI products are also VUL-type products.

 

We also offer survivorship versions of our individual VUL products, such as Lincoln SVULONE.  These products insure two lives with a single policy and pay death benefits upon the second death.  

 

We offer lifetime guaranteed benefit riders with our Lincoln VULONE and Lincoln SVULONE products.  The ONE rider features guarantee to the contract holder that upon death, as long as secondary guarantee requirements have been met, the death benefit will be payable even if the account value equals zero.

 

Our secondary guarantee benefits maintain the flexibility of a traditional UL or VUL policy, which allow a contract holder to take loans or withdrawals.  Although loans and withdrawals are likely to shorten the time period of the secondary guarantee, the guarantee is not automatically or completely forfeited.  The length of the guarantee may be increased at any time through additional excess premium deposits.  Reserves on UL and VUL products with secondary guarantees represented 38% and 37% of total life insurance in-force reserves as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.

 

Linked-Benefit Life Products and Products with Critical Illness Riders 

 

Lincoln MoneyGuard®, our linked-benefit life product, combines UL with long-term care insurance through the use of a rider or riders.  The policy rider allows the contract holder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified long-term care need, reducing the remaining death benefit, and, once the death benefit is exhausted, offers access to an additional pool of dollars that can be used for qualified long-term care expenses.  Certain policies also provide a reduced death benefit to the contract holder’s beneficiary if the death benefit has been fully accelerated as long-term care benefits during the contract holder’s life.

 

Some life products provide for critical illness or long-term care insurance by the use of riders attached to UL, VUL or IUL policies.  These riders allow the contract holder to accelerate death benefits on a tax-free basis in the event of a qualified condition. 

 

Term Life Insurance

 

Term life insurance provides a fixed death benefit for a scheduled period of time.  Some of our term life insurance products give the policyholder the option to reduce the death benefit at a future time.  Scheduled policy premiums are required to be paid at least annually.  These products include Lincoln TermAccel® Level Term and Lincoln LifeElements® Level Term. 

 

Distribution 

 

The Life Insurance segment’s products are sold through LFD.  LFD provides the Life Insurance segment with access to financial intermediaries in the following primary distribution channels:  wire/regional firms; independent planner firms (including LFN); financial institutions; and managing general agents/independent marketing organizations.  LFD distributes BOLI/COLI products and services to  banks and mid- to large-sized corporations, primarily through intermediaries who specialize in one or both of these markets and who are serviced through a network of internal and external LFD sales professionals.

 

Competition  

 

The life insurance market is very competitive and consists of many companies with no one company dominating the market for all products.  Principal competitive factors include product features, price, underwriting and issue process, customer service and insurers’ financial strength.  With our broad distribution network, we compete in the three primary needs of life insurance:  death benefit protection, accumulation and linked benefits (MoneyGuard).  In addition, we use automated underwriting within a defined criteria as well as LincXpress®, a simplified issue process, both of which are seen as marketplace competitive advantages. 

 

 

 

7

Table of Contents

 

 

Underwriting 

 

In the context of life insurance, underwriting is the process of evaluating medical and non-medical information about an individual and determining the effect these factors statistically have on mortality.  This process of evaluation is often referred to as risk classification.  Of course, no one can accurately predict how long any individual will live, but certain risk factors can affect life expectancy and are evaluated during the underwriting process. 

 

Claims Administration 

 

Claims service is handled primarily in-house, and claims examiners are assigned to each claim notification based on coverage amount, type of claim and the experience of the examiner.  Claims meeting certain criteria are referred to senior claims examiners.  A formal quality assurance program is carried out to ensure the consistency and effectiveness of claims examining activities.  A network of in-house legal counsel, compliance officers, medical personnel and an anti-fraud investigative unit also support claims examiners.  A special team of claims examiners, in conjunction with claims management, focus on more complex claims matters such as claims incurred during the contestable period, beneficiary disputes and litigated claims.

 

GROUP PROTECTION

 

Overview

 

The Group Protection segment offers group non-medical insurance products and services, including short- and long-term disability, statutory disability and paid family medical leave administration and absence management services, term life, dental, vision and accident and critical illness benefits and services to the employer marketplace through various forms of employee-paid and employer-paid plans.  Group Protection markets its products and services to employer groups of all sizes, from small companies with fewer than 100 employees to large employers with 10,000 or more employees, with enhanced disability and absence management competency.

 

Products

 

Disability Insurance and Services

 

We offer insured coverage for, as well as administrative services for employer self-funded, short- and long-term employer-sponsored group disability insurance, which protects an employee against loss of wages due to illness or injury.  Short-term disability insurance generally provides weekly benefits for up to 26 weeks following a short waiting period, ranging from 1 to 30 days.  Long-term disability insurance provides benefits following a longer waiting period, usually between 90 and 180 days and provides benefits for a longer period, ranging from 2 years to normal (Social Security) retirement age.  The monthly benefits provided are subject to reduction when Social Security benefits are also paid.  We also provide insured coverage for, as well as administrative services for employer self-funded, state-specific statutory disability programs and statutory paid family leave programs as legislation is passed and implemented.   

 

Absence Management

 

We offer a robust portfolio of absence management services to help employers manage their state and federal family medical and company leave programs (paid and unpaid), as well as accommodation services that help employers identify accommodations that could be made to help claimants return to work (e.g., assistive devices, ergonomic assessments, etc.).  Our comprehensive and compliant solutions, with ease of intake, provide coordinated and integrated management expertise to handle both leave and disability events.

 

Life Insurance 

 

We offer employer-sponsored group term life insurance products including basic, optional and voluntary term life insurance to employees and their dependents.  Additional benefits may be provided in the event of a covered individual’s accidental death or dismemberment.  

 

Dental and Vision 

 

We offer a variety of employer-sponsored group dental insurance plans, which cover a portion of the cost of eligible dental procedures for employees and their dependents.  Products offered include:  indemnity coverage, which does not distinguish benefits based on a dental provider’s participation in a network arrangement; Preferred Provider Organization (“PPO”) products, on an insured and administrative services only basis, that do reflect the dental provider’s participation in the PPO network arrangement, including an agreement with network fee schedules; a Dental Health Maintenance Organization product that limits benefit coverage to a closed panel of network providers; an in-network-only option that limits benefit coverage to providers in certain states; and self-funded options for groups with more than 200 employees.

 

We offer comprehensive employer-sponsored fully insured vision plans with a wide range of benefits for protecting employees’ and their covered dependents’ sight and vision health.  All plans provide access to a national network of providers, with in and out-of-network benefits.  

 

 

8

Table of Contents

 

 

Accident and Critical Illness Insurance

 

We offer employer-sponsored group accident insurance products for employees and their covered dependents.  This product is predominantly purchased on an employee-paid basis.  Accident insurance provides scheduled benefits for over 30 types of benefit triggers related to accidental causes, including sports-related injuries, and is available for non-occupational accidents exclusively or on a 24-hour coverage basis.

 

We also offer employer-sponsored group critical illness insurance to employees and their covered dependents.  This product is predominantly purchased on an employee-paid basis.  The coverage provides for lump sum payouts upon the occurrence of one of the specified critical illness benefit triggers covered within a critical illness insurance policy.  This product also includes benefits and services that assist employees and their family members in prevention, early detection and treatment of critical illness events.

 

Distribution

 

The Group Protection segment’s products are marketed primarily through a national distribution system.  The managers and marketing representatives develop business through employee benefit brokers, consultants, TPAs and other employee benefit firms that work with employers to provide access to our products.

 

Competition

 

The group protection marketplace is very competitive.  Principal competitive factors include particular product features, price, quality of customer service and claims management, technological capabilities, quality and efficiency of distribution and financial strength ratings.  In this market, the Group Protection segment competes nationally with a number of major companies and regionally with other companies offering all or some of the products within our product set.  In addition, there is competition in attracting brokers to actively market our products and attracting and retaining sales representatives to sell our products.  Key competitive factors in attracting brokers include product offerings and features, financial strength, support services and compensation.   

 

Underwriting

 

The Group Protection segment’s underwriters evaluate the risk characteristics of each employer group.  Generally, the relevant characteristics evaluated include employee census information (such as age, gender, income and occupation), employer industry classification, geographic location, benefit design elements and other factors.  The segment employs detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures designed to assist the underwriter to properly assess and quantify risks.  Individual underwriting techniques (including evaluation of individual medical history information) may be used on certain covered individuals selecting benefit amounts that are above guarantee issue limits set forth in the insurance policies.  For voluntary and other forms of employee paid coverages, minimum participation requirements are used to obtain a better spread of risk and minimize the risk of anti-selection.

 

Claims Administration

 

Claims for the Group Protection segment are managed by in-house claim specialists.  Claims are evaluated for eligibility and payment of benefits pursuant to the group insurance contract and in compliance with federal and state regulations.  Disability claims management is especially important to segment results, as results depend on both the incidence and the length of approved disability claims.  The segment employs a variety of clinical experts, including employee and contract medical professionals and rehabilitation specialists, to evaluate medically supported functional capabilities and develop return to work plans.  The accuracy and speed of life claims are important customer service and risk management factors.  Some life policies provide for the waiver of premium coverage in the event of the insured’s disability where our disability claims management expertise is utilized.  Dental claims management focuses on assisting plan administrators and members with the rising costs of insurance by utilizing tools to optimize dental claims payment accuracy through advanced claims review and validation, improved data analysis, enhanced clinical review of claims and provider utilization monitoring.

 

OTHER OPERATIONS

 

Other Operations includes the financial data for operations that are not directly related to the business segments.  Other Operations includes investments related to the excess capital in our insurance subsidiaries; corporate investments; benefit plan net liability; the results of certain disability income business; our run-off Institutional Pension business in the form of group annuity and insured funding-type of contracts; debt; and strategic digitization expense.  For more information on our strategic digitization initiative, see “Introduction – Executive Summary – Significant Operational Matters” in the MD&A.

 

REINSURANCE

  

Our reinsurance strategy is designed to protect our insurance subsidiaries against the severity of losses on individual claims and unusually serious occurrences in which a number of claims produce an aggregate extraordinary loss.  Although reinsurance does not discharge the insurance subsidiaries from their primary liabilities to their contract holders for losses insured under the insurance policies, it does make the assuming reinsurer liable to the insurance subsidiaries for the reinsured portion of the risk.  Because we bear the risk of nonpayment 

 

 

9

Table of Contents

 

by one or more of our reinsurers, we primarily cede reinsurance to well-capitalized, highly rated unaffiliated reinsurers.  We also utilize inter-company reinsurance agreements to manage our statutory capital position as well as our hedge program for variable annuity guarantees.  These inter-company agreements do not have an effect on our consolidated financial statements.

 

As of December 31, 2020, the policy for our reinsurance program was to retain up to $20 million on a single insured life.  As the amount we retain varies by policy, we reinsured 17% of the mortality risk on newly issued life insurance contracts in 2020.  As of December 31, 2020, 33% of our total individual life in-force amount was reinsured.  

 

Some portions of our annuity business have been reinsured on either a coinsurance or a modified coinsurance (“Modco”) basis with other companies to limit our exposure associated with fixed and variable annuities.  In a coinsurance program, the reinsurer shares proportionally in all financial terms of the reinsured policies (i.e., premiums, expenses, claims, etc.) based on their respective percentage of the risk.  In a Modco program, we as the ceding company retain the reserves, as well as the assets backing those reserves, and the reinsurer shares proportionally in all financial terms of the reinsured policies based on their respective percentage of the risk. 

 

In addition, we acquire other reinsurance to cover products other than as discussed above with retentions and limits that management believes are appropriate for the circumstances.  For example, we use reinsurance to cover larger life and disability claims in our Group Protection business.

 

We obtain reinsurance from a diverse group of reinsurers, and we monitor concentration and financial strength ratings of our principal reinsurers.  Protective, Athene Holding Ltd. (“Athene”) and Swiss Re Life & Health America, Inc. (“Swiss Re”) represent our largest reinsurance exposures.  For more information regarding our reinsurance arrangements and exposure, see “Reinsurance” in the MD&A and Note 9.  For risks involving reinsurance, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Operational Matters – We face risks of non-collectability of reinsurance and increased reinsurance rates, which could materially affect our results of operations.” 

 

RESERVES

 

The applicable insurance laws under which insurance companies operate require that they report, as liabilities, policy reserves to meet future obligations on their outstanding policies.  These reserves are the amounts that, with the additional premiums to be received and interest thereon compounded annually at certain assumed rates, are calculated to be sufficient to meet the various policy and contract obligations as they mature.  These laws specify that the reserves shall not be less than reserves calculated using certain specified mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation.  From time to time, the insurance laws, regulations, or regulatory guidance that specify the mortality and morbidity tables, interest rates and methods of valuation may be changed or interpreted differently, which may result in changes in the required reserves of our insurance subsidiaries.  For more information on reserves, see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Derivatives – GLB” and “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Future Contract Benefits and Other Contract Holder Obligations” in the MD&A.  For information on risks regarding changes in regulations, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may affect our insurance subsidiary capital requirements, reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.”  

 

See “Regulatory” below for information on permitted practices and proposed regulations that may impact the amount of statutory reserves necessary to support our current insurance liabilities. 

 

For risks related to reserves, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Market Conditions – Changes in interest rates and sustained low interest rates may cause interest rate spreads to decrease, impacting our profitability, and make it more challenging to meet certain statutory requirements, and changes in interest rates may also result in increased contract withdrawals” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Operational Matters – We face risks of non-collectability of reinsurance and increased reinsurance rates, which could materially affect our results of operations.”

 

INVESTMENTS

 

An important component of our financial results is the return on investments.  Our investment strategy is to balance the need for current income with prudent risk management, with an emphasis on generating sufficient current income to meet our obligations.  This approach requires the evaluation of risk and expected return of each asset class utilized, while still meeting our income objectives.  This approach also permits us to be more effective in our asset-liability management because decisions can be made based upon both the economic and current investment income considerations affecting assets and liabilities.  Investments made by our insurance subsidiaries must comply with the insurance laws and regulations of the states of domicile. 

 

Derivatives are used primarily for hedging purposes and, to a lesser extent, income generation.  Hedging strategies are employed for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, hedging certain portions of our exposure to changes in our GDB, GWB and GIB liabilities, interest rate fluctuations, the widening of bond yield spreads over comparable maturity U.S. government obligations and credit, foreign exchange and equity risks.  For additional information on our investments, including carrying values by category, quality ratings and net investment income, see “Consolidated Investments” in the MD&A, as well as Notes 1 and 5.

 

 

 

10

Table of Contents

 

 

FINANCIAL STRENGTH RATINGS

  

The Nationally Recognized Statistical Ratings Organizations rate the financial strength of our principal insurance subsidiaries.  Rating agencies rate insurance companies based on financial strength and the ability to pay claims, factors more relevant to contract holders than investors.  We believe that the ratings assigned by nationally recognized, independent rating agencies are material to our operations.  There may be other rating agencies that also rate our insurance companies, which we do not disclose in our reports. 

 

The insurer financial strength rating scales of A.M. Best, Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”), Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”) and S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”) are characterized as follows: 

 

A.M. Best – A++ to D  

Fitch – AAA to C  

Moody’s – Aaa to C

S&P – AAA to D 

 

As of February 12, 2021, the financial strength ratings of our principal insurance subsidiaries, as published by the principal rating agencies that rate us, were as follows:

 

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

 
	

A.M. Best
	

 
	

Fitch
	

 
	

Moody's
	

 
	

S&P
	

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (“LNL”)
	

A+
	

 
	

A+
	

 
	

A1
	

 
	

AA-
	

 

 
	

(2nd of 16)
	

 
	

(5th of 19)
	

 
	

(5th of 21)
	

 
	

(4th of 21)
	

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York (“LLANY”)
	

A+
	

 
	

A+
	

 
	

A1
	

 
	

AA-
	

 

 
	

(2nd of 16)
	

 
	

(5th of 19)
	

 
	

(5th of 21)
	

 
	

(4th of 21)
	

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

Lincoln Life Assurance Company of Boston (“LLACB”)
	

A+
	

 
	

N/A
	

 
	

N/A
	

 
	

AA-
	

 

 
	

(2nd of 16)
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

(4th of 21)
	

 

First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company (“FPP”)
	

A
	

 
	

A+
	

 
	

A1
	

 
	

A-
	

 

 
	

(3rd of 16)
	

 
	

(5th of 19)
	

 
	

(5th of 21)
	

 
	

(7th of 21)
	

 

A downgrade of the financial strength rating of one of our principal insurance subsidiaries could affect our competitive position in the insurance industry and make it more difficult for us to market our products, as potential customers may select companies with higher financial strength ratings.  See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Covenants and Ratings – A downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could limit our ability to market products, increase the number or value of policies being surrendered and/or hurt our relationships with creditors.”

 

All of our insurer financial strength ratings are on outlook stable.  All of our ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agencies, and therefore, no assurance can be given that our principal insurance subsidiaries can maintain these ratings.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Ratings are not recommendations to buy our securities.  See “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A for a discussion of our credit ratings.

 

REGULATORY

 

Insurance Regulation 

 

Our insurance subsidiaries, like other insurance companies, are subject to regulation and supervision by the states, territories and countries in which they are licensed to do business.  The extent of such regulation varies, but generally has its source in statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to supervisory agencies.  In the U.S., this power is vested in state insurance departments. 

 

In supervising and regulating insurance companies, state insurance departments, charged primarily with protecting contract holders and the public rather than investors, enjoy broad authority and discretion in applying applicable insurance laws and regulation for that purpose.  Our principal insurance subsidiaries, LNL, LLANY, LLACB and FPP, are domiciled in the states of Indiana, New York, New Hampshire and Indiana, respectively.

 

 

 

11

Table of Contents

 

 

The insurance departments of the domiciliary states exercise principal regulatory jurisdiction over our insurance subsidiaries.  The extent of regulation by the states varies, but, in general, most jurisdictions have laws and regulations governing standards of solvency, adequacy of reserves, reinsurance, capital adequacy, licensing of companies and agents to transact business, prescribing and approving policy forms, regulating premium rates for some lines of business, prescribing the form and content of financial statements and reports, regulating the type and amount of investments permitted and standards of business conduct.  Insurance company regulation is discussed further in this section under “Insurance Holding Company Regulation.”  

 

As part of their regulatory oversight process, state insurance departments conduct periodic examinations, generally once every three to five years, of the books, records, accounts and business practices of insurers domiciled in their states.  Examinations are generally carried out in cooperation with the insurance regulators of other states under guidelines promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”).  State and federal insurance and securities regulatory authorities and other state law enforcement agencies and Attorneys General also, from time to time, make inquiries and conduct examinations or investigations regarding the compliance by our company, as well as other companies in our industry, with, among other things, insurance laws and securities laws.  Our captive reinsurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to periodic financial examinations by their respective domiciliary state insurance regulators.  We have not received any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of our insurance, reinsurance and captive reinsurance subsidiaries conducted during the three-year period ended December 31, 2020.

 

State insurance laws and regulations require our U.S. insurance companies to file financial statements with state insurance departments everywhere they do business, and the operations of our U.S. insurance companies and accounts are subject to examination by those departments at any time.  Our U.S. insurance companies prepare statutory financial statements in accordance with accounting practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by these departments.  The NAIC has approved a series of statutory accounting principles that have been adopted, in some cases with minor modifications, by virtually all state insurance departments.  Changes in these statutory accounting principles can significantly affect our capital and surplus. 

 

The NAIC’s adoption of the Valuation Manual that defines a principles-based reserving framework for newly issued life insurance policies was effective January 1, 2017.  Principles-based reserving places a greater weight on our past experience and anticipated future experience and considers current economic conditions in calculating life insurance product reserves in accordance with statutory accounting principles.  We adopted the framework for our newly issued term business in 2017 and phased in the framework through January 1, 2020, for all other newly issued life insurance products.  We believe that these changes may reduce our future use of captive reinsurance and reinsurance subsidiaries for reserve financing transactions for our life insurance business.  In addition, the NAIC implemented changes to the accounting, reserve and risk-based capital (“RBC”) regulations related to the variable annuity business that went into effect in 2020, which impacted the level of reserves and required capital we hold on variable annuities (although the impacts were not material upon adoption).  These new regulations will also affect how statutory reserves and required capital for variable annuities respond to changes in market conditions, including increased sensitivity to changes in interest rates, leading to more volatile movements in certain market environments than under the prior regulations.  Also, in August 2020, the NAIC approved changes to Actuarial Guideline XLIX (“AG49”) that affect the way insurance companies are permitted to illustrate certain IUL products.  We are required to comply with the amended guideline, AG49-A, for any IUL products sold on, or after, December 14, 2020, and such compliance could impact our sales of such products.  The NAIC is also considering modifications to (i) the NAIC RBC capital charges for bonds, which may impact the level of capital we are required to hold; and (ii) the economic scenario generator (“ESG”) used to calculate life and annuity reserves according to the Valuation Manual (e.g., VM-20 and VM-21) and required capital for certain annuities and single premium life insurance products and variable annuities and similar products, which could affect the level and volatility of statutory reserves and required capital for products in scope.  For more information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may affect our insurance subsidiary capital requirements, reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.”  We are monitoring all potential changes and evaluating the potential impact they could have on our product offerings, financial condition and results of operations.

 

For more information on statutory reserving and our use of captive reinsurance structures, see “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow – Insurance Subsidiaries’ Statutory Capital and Surplus” in the MD&A. 

 

Insurance Holding Company Regulation 

 

LNC and its primary insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation pursuant to the insurance holding company laws of the states of Indiana, New York and New Hampshire.  These insurance holding company laws generally require an insurance holding company and insurers that are members of such insurance holding company’s system to register with the insurance department authorities, to file with it certain reports disclosing information, including their capital structure, ownership, management, financial condition and certain inter-company transactions, including material transfers of assets and inter-company business agreements, and to report material changes in that information.  These laws also require that inter-company transactions be fair and reasonable and, under certain circumstances, prior approval of the insurance departments must be received before entering into an inter-company transaction.  Further, these laws require that an insurer’s contract holders’ surplus following any dividends or distributions to shareholder affiliates is reasonable in relation to the insurer’s outstanding liabilities and adequate for its financial needs. 

 

 

 

12

Table of Contents

 

 

In general, under state holding company regulations, no person may acquire, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest in our capital stock unless such person, corporation or other entity has obtained prior approval from the applicable insurance commissioner for such acquisition of control.  Pursuant to such laws, in general, any person acquiring, controlling or holding the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting securities of an insurance company, is presumed to have “control” of such company.  This presumption may be rebutted by a showing that control does not exist in fact.  The insurance commissioner, however, may find that “control” exists in circumstances in which a person owns or controls a smaller amount of voting securities.  To obtain approval from the insurance commissioner of any acquisition of control of an insurance company, the proposed acquirer must file with the applicable commissioner an application containing information regarding: the identity and background of the acquirer and its affiliates; the nature, source and amount of funds to be used to carry out the acquisition; the financial statements of the acquirer and its affiliates; any potential plans for disposition of the securities or business of the insurer; the number and type of securities to be acquired; any contracts with respect to the securities to be acquired; any agreements with broker-dealers; and other matters.  

 

Other jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are licensed to transact business may have similar or additional requirements for prior approval of any acquisition of control of an insurance or reinsurance company licensed or authorized to transact business in those jurisdictions.  Additional requirements in those jurisdictions may include re-licensing or subsequent approval for renewal of existing licenses upon an acquisition of control.  In addition, laws that govern the holding company structure also govern payment of dividends to us by our insurance subsidiaries.  See “Review of Consolidated Financial Condition – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Sources of Liquidity and Cash Flow” in the MD&A for a discussion of restrictions on subsidiaries’ dividends and other payments.

 

Risk-Based Capital 

 

The NAIC has adopted RBC requirements for life insurance companies to evaluate the adequacy of statutory capital and surplus in relation to investment and insurance risks.  The requirements provide a means of measuring the minimum amount of statutory surplus appropriate for an insurance company to support its overall business operations based on its size and risk profile.  There are five major risks involved in determining the requirements:

 

 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

 

Category
	

 
	

Name
	

 
	

Description

Asset risk – affiliates
	

 
	

C-0
	

 
	

Risk of assets’ default for certain affiliated investments

Asset risk – others
	

 
	

C-1
	

 
	

Risk of assets’ default of principal and interest or fluctuation in fair value

Insurance risk
	

 
	

C-2
	

 
	

Risk of underestimating liabilities from business already written or inadequately pricing 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

business to be written in the future

Interest rate risk, health credit
	

C-3
	

 
	

Risk of losses due to changes in interest rate levels, risk that health benefits prepaid to

risk and market risk
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

providers become the obligation of the health insurer once again and risk of loss due 

 
	

 
	

 
	

 
	

to changes in market levels associated with variable products with guarantees

Business risk
	

 
	

C-4
	

 
	

Risk of general business

 

A company’s risk-based statutory surplus is calculated by applying factors and performing calculations relating to various asset, premium, claim, expense and reserve items.  Regulators can then measure adequacy of a company’s statutory surplus by comparing it to the RBC determined by the formula.  Under RBC requirements, regulatory compliance is determined by the ratio of a company’s total adjusted capital, as defined by the NAIC, to its company action level of RBC (known as the RBC ratio), also as defined by the NAIC.  

 

Accordingly, factors that have an impact on the total adjusted capital of our insurance subsidiaries, such as the permitted practices discussed above, will also affect their RBC levels.  Four levels of regulatory attention may be triggered if the RBC ratio is insufficient: 

 

“Company action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 75% and 100%, then the insurer must submit a plan to the regulator detailing corrective action it proposes to undertake;  

“Regulatory action level” – If the RBC ratio is between 50% and 75%, then the insurer must submit a plan, but a regulator may also issue a corrective order requiring the insurer to comply within a specified period; 

“Authorized control level” – If the RBC ratio is between 35% and 50%, then the regulatory response is the same as at the “Regulatory action level,” but, in addition, the regulator may take action to rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer; and 

“Mandatory control level” – If the RBC ratio is less than 35%, then the regulator must rehabilitate or liquidate the insurer. 

 

As of December 31, 2020, the RBC ratios of LNL, LLANY, LLACB and FPP reported to their respective states of domicile and the NAIC all exceeded the “company action level.”  We believe that we will be able to maintain the RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries in excess of “company action level” through prudent underwriting, claims handling, investing and capital management.  However, no assurances can be given that developments affecting the insurance subsidiaries, many of which could be outside of our control, will not cause the RBC ratios to fall below our targeted levels.  These developments may include, but may not be limited to:  changes to the manner in which the RBC ratio is calculated; new regulatory requirements for calculating reserves, such as principles-based reserving; economic conditions leading to higher levels of impairments of securities in our insurance subsidiaries’ general accounts; and an inability to finance life reserves such as the issuance of letters of credit (“LOCs”) supporting inter-company reinsurance structures. 

 

 

 

13

Table of Contents

 

 

See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Liquidity and Capital Position – A decrease in the capital and surplus of our insurance subsidiaries may result in a downgrade to our credit and insurer financial strength ratings” and “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Our businesses are heavily regulated and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may affect our insurance subsidiary capital requirements, reduce our profitability, limit our growth or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.”   

 

Privacy Regulations

 

In the course of our business, we collect and maintain personal data from our customers including personally identifiable non-public financial and health information, which subjects us to regulation under numerous privacy laws.  These laws require that we institute certain policies and procedures in our business to safeguard this information from improper use or disclosure.  The laws vary by jurisdiction, and it is expected that additional regulations will continue to be enacted.  In March 2017, New York’s cybersecurity regulation for financial services institutions, including banking and insurance entities, became effective, and on October 24, 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law, which states are adopting versions of, establishing new standards for data security and for the investigation of and notification to insurance commissioners of cybersecurity events.  Other states have proposed or adopted broad privacy legislation that applies to all types of businesses, including California, which passed the California Consumer Privacy Act in June 2018 and the California Privacy Rights Act in November 2020.  Both laws grant new rights to California consumers regarding their personal information.  In addition, the European General Data Protection Regulation adopted by the European Commission became effective in May 2018.  While we employ robust and tested privacy and information security programs, as regulators establish further regulations for addressing consumer and customer privacy, we may need to amend our policies and adapt our internal procedures.  See “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Compliance with existing and emerging privacy regulations could result in increased compliance costs and/or lead to changes in business practices and policies, and any failure to protect the confidentiality of consumer and client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.”  For information regarding cybersecurity risks, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Operational Matters – Our information systems may experience interruptions, breaches in security and/or a failure of disaster recovery systems that could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively.”

 

Federal Initiatives

 

The U.S. federal government does not directly regulate the insurance industry; however, federal initiatives from time to time can impact the insurance industry.  The marketplace continues to evolve in the changing regulatory environment.   

 

Financial Reform Legislation

 

Since it was enacted in 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”) has imposed considerable reform in the financial services industry.  The ongoing implementation continues to present challenges and uncertainties for financial market participants.  For instance, the Dodd-Frank Act and corresponding global initiatives imposed significant changes to the regulation of derivatives transactions, which we use to mitigate many types of risk in our business.  Significantly, swap documentation and processing requirements continue to change in light of rules for margining uncleared swaps.  As we prepare to comply with requirements to post initial margin beginning in September 2021, we continue to evaluate the ways we will be required to manage our derivatives trading and the attendant liquidity requirements.  For more information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Legislative, Regulatory and Tax – Implementation of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act relating to the regulation of derivatives transactions will subject us to substantial additional federal regulation, and we cannot predict the effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition until final implementation.”

 

Our trading activities are also affected by the scheduled phaseout of LIBOR (the publication of which is now scheduled to cease by June 2023) and the use of alternative reference rates and related adjustments.  We continue to prepare for and monitor developments regarding these changes in order to reduce potential disruptions.  As financial services regulatory reform continues to evolve in the U.S. and abroad, and the marketplace continues to respond, the extent to which our derivatives costs and strategies may change and the extent to which those changes may affect the range or pricing of our products remains uncertain.

 

In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act directed the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) to study the implications resulting from the different standards applicable to broker-dealers and investment advisers and empowered the SEC to adopt a uniform fiduciary standard.  In January 2011, the SEC released its study on the obligations and standards of conduct of financial professionals.  The SEC staff initially recommended establishing a uniform fiduciary standard for investment advisers and broker-dealers when providing investment advice about securities, including guidance for principal trading and definitions of the duties of loyalty and care owed to retail customers that would be consistent with the standard that currently applies to investment advisers.  Then, in June 2019, pursuant to the authority granted by the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC adopted “Regulation Best Interest,” which established a higher standard of care and disclosure for broker-dealers when making recommendations to retail customers, but did not create an explicit fiduciary duty.  For more information, see “SEC Rules and Other Regulations relating to the Standard of Care Applicable to Investment Advisers and Broker-Dealers” below.

 

 

 

14

Table of Contents

 

 

Additional provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act include, among other things, the creation of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to protect consumers of certain financial products; and changes to certain corporate governance rules.  The Federal Insurance Office established under the Dodd-Frank Act issues annually a wide-ranging report on the state of insurance regulation in the U.S., together with a series of recommendations on ways to monitor and improve the regulatory environment.  The ultimate impact of these recommendations on our business is undeterminable at this time.

 

SEC Rules and Other Regulations relating to the Standard of Care Applicable to Investment Advisers and Broker-Dealers 

 

In 2016, the Department of Labor (“DOL”) released the DOL Fiduciary Rule, which became effective in 2017 and substantially expanded the range of activities considered to be fiduciary investment advice under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) and the Internal Revenue Code.  The DOL Fiduciary Rule was subsequently vacated by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (the “Fifth Circuit”) in March 2018, and in June 2018, the Fifth Circuit issued a mandate stating that the original definition of “fiduciary,” including the original five-part test, would apply going forward.

 

In 2019, the SEC approved “Regulation Best Interest,” including a new standard of conduct for broker-dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), which requires a broker-dealer to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation of any securities transaction, without putting its financial interests ahead of the interests of a retail customer.  The final rule includes guidance on what constitutes a “recommendation” and a definition of who would be a “retail customer” in addition to provisions setting forth certain required disclosures, policies and procedures to identify conflicts of interest, and customer-specific best interest obligations.

 

In addition, the SEC approved the use of a new disclosure document, the customer or client relationship summary, or Form CRS.  Form CRS is intended to provide retail investors with information about the nature of their relationship with their investment professional and supplements other more detailed disclosures, including existing Form ADV for advisers and the new disclosures under Regulation Best Interest for broker-dealers.  Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS became effective as of September 10, 2019, with a transition period for compliance through June 30, 2020, as of which date broker-dealers were required to be compliant.

 

Finally, the SEC issued interpretative guidance regarding an investment adviser’s fiduciary obligation under the Advisers Act.  The guidance indicates that investment advisers have a fiduciary duty to their clients that includes both a duty of care and a duty of loyalty and further describes an investment adviser’s responsibilities under these fiduciary duties.  

 

In June 2020, the DOL proposed a new prohibited transaction exemption, which was finalized in December 2020, and will allow the payment of compensation to investment advice fiduciaries who comply with the requirements of the new exemption.  The new exemption generally tracks the standard set forth in Regulation Best Interest and went into effect on February 16, 2021.  It is uncertain whether there will be efforts to revise the new rule in the future.

 

In addition to the SEC and DOL rules, the NAIC and several states, including Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey and New York, have either enacted or proposed laws and regulations requiring investment advisers, broker-dealers and/or agents to meet a higher standard of care and provide additional disclosures when providing advice to their clients.  The recently enacted state laws and regulations have resulted in, and upon adoption by other states such laws and regulations may result in, additional requirements related to the sale of our products.  Additional disclosure and other requirements could adversely affect our business by causing us to reevaluate or change certain business practices or otherwise.  

 

If any revised DOL fiduciary rule or any additional new rules that are implemented are more onerous than Regulation Best Interest, or are not coordinated with Regulation Best Interest, the impact on our business could be substantial.  While we continue to monitor and evaluate the various proposals, we cannot predict what other proposals may be made, or what new legislation or regulation may be introduced or become law.  Therefore, until such time as final rules or laws are in place, the potential impact on our business is uncertain.

 

Federal Tax Legislation 

 

In late 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) was signed into law.  The Tax Act resulted in significant reforms for corporations (in addition to individuals), including a number of provisions that directly impacted insurance companies.  The vast majority of the changes became effective January 1, 2018.  Throughout 2020, the Internal Revenue Service and U.S. Treasury finalized published guidance on the various provisions of the Tax Act.  The issuance of this and prior guidance has not changed our interpretation and related implementation of the law changes in the Tax Act.

 

Following the Presidential election in November 2020, the potential exists for tax legislative and regulatory changes, including reversing a number of provisions in the Tax Act.  The new Administration has a tax plan that includes increasing the marginal corporate tax rate to 28%, imposing a minimum tax on the financial profits of corporations, and a variety of other business-related proposals.  Also included in the plan is an increase in the top marginal tax rate for individuals, taxing capital gains at ordinary-income rates for high-income earners, changes to the estate tax, and tax credits and incentives for low and middle-income retirement savers.  

 

 

 

15

Table of Contents

 

 

These tax policy changes are currently only in proposal form.  Until enacted into the tax law, the potential impact on our business is uncertain.  The new Administration has a number of non-tax policy priorities, so the timing of any action on tax legislative changes is difficult to predict.  Outside of broader tax reform aligned to the reversal of specific provisions of the Tax Act, the potential exists for smaller, more-targeted tax law changes in the nearer term.  We will continue to be actively engaged with policymakers including the incoming Administration to ensure the impacts of tax policy changes on our business and our customers are well understood.

 

Outside of potential tax law changes, the uncertainty of federal funding and the future of the Social Security Disability Insurance (“SSDI”) program can have a substantial impact on the entire group benefit market because SSDI benefits are a direct offset to the benefits paid under group disability policies.  Congress alleviated some of this uncertainty by passing the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015.  As a result, the Social Security Administration’s 2020 Annual Report projects that the SSDI reserves will not be depleted until 2035.

 

Health Care Reform Legislation

 

In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which was subsequently amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act.  This legislation, as well as subsequent state and federal laws and regulations, includes provisions that provide for additional taxes to help finance the cost of these reforms and substantive changes and additions to health care and related laws, which could potentially impact some of our lines of business.  We continue to monitor any efforts by the government to repeal or replace provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the effect those efforts may have on our businesses. 

 

Patriot Act

 

The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 includes anti-money laundering and financial transparency laws as well as various regulations applicable to broker-dealers and other financial services companies, including insurance companies.  Financial institutions are required to collect information regarding the identity of their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies and share information with other financial institutions.  As a result, we are required to maintain certain internal compliance practices, procedures and controls.

 

SECURE Act

 

In December 2019, President Trump signed into law the Setting Every Community Up for Retirement Enhancement Act (the “SECURE Act”).  Most of the provisions of the SECURE Act were effective for plan years beginning after December 31, 2019.  Among other things, the provisions of the SECURE Act make it easier for employers to offer lifetime income options in defined contribution retirement plans, facilitate the ability of small employers to offer access to retirement savings vehicles to their employees and increase opportunities for workers to save by enhancing retirement plan automatic enrollment and escalation features.  We believe that the financial services industry will benefit from the adoption of the SECURE Act through continued or increased savings in retirement and annuity solutions, including through the utilization of Lincoln’s suite of offerings.

 

ERISA Considerations

 

ERISA is a comprehensive federal statute that applies to U.S. employee benefit plans sponsored by private employers and labor unions.  Plans subject to ERISA include pension and profit-sharing plans and welfare plans, including health, life and disability plans.  ERISA provisions include reporting and disclosure rules, standards of conduct that apply to plan fiduciaries and prohibitions on transactions known as “prohibited transactions,” such as conflict-of-interest transactions and certain transactions between a benefit plan and a party in interest.  ERISA also provides for a scheme of civil and criminal penalties and enforcement.  Our insurance, asset management, plan administrative services and other businesses provide services to employee benefit plans subject to ERISA, including services where we may act as an ERISA fiduciary.  In addition, because certain of our businesses provide products and services to ERISA plans, transactions with those plans are subject to ERISA’s prohibited transaction rules, which may affect our ability to enter into transactions, or the terms on which transactions may be entered into, with such plans, even if the business entering into the transaction is unrelated to the business giving rise to party-in-interest status. 

 

 

 

16

Table of Contents

 

Broker-Dealer and Securities Regulation

 

In addition to being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, some of our separate accounts as well as mutual funds that we sponsor are registered as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, and the shares of certain of these entities are qualified for sale in some or all states and the District of Columbia.  We also have subsidiaries that are registered as broker-dealers under the Exchange Act and are subject to federal and state regulation, including, but not limited to, the Financial Industry Regulation Authority’s (“FINRA”) net capital rules.  In addition, we have subsidiaries that are registered investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  Agents, advisers and employees registered or associated with any of our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to the Exchange Act and to examination requirements and regulation by the SEC, FINRA and state securities commissions.  Regulation also extends to various LNC entities that employ or control those individuals.  The SEC and other governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions in the U.S., have the power to conduct administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or suspension and termination or limitation of the activities of the regulated entity or its employees.  For more information about regulatory and litigation matters, see Note 14.

 

Environmental Considerations 

 

Federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations apply to our ownership and operation of real property.  Inherent in owning and operating real property are the risks of hidden environmental liabilities and the costs of any required clean-up.  Under the laws of certain states, contamination of a property may give rise to a lien on the property to secure recovery of the costs of clean-up, which could adversely affect our commercial mortgage lending.  In several states, this lien has priority over the lien of an existing mortgage against such property.  In addition, in some states and under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), we may be liable, as an “owner” or “operator,” for costs of cleaning-up releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances at a property mortgaged to us.  We also risk environmental liability when we foreclose on a property mortgaged to us.  Federal legislation provides for a safe harbor from CERCLA liability for secured lenders that foreclose and sell the mortgaged real estate, provided that certain requirements are met.  However, there are circumstances in which actions taken could still expose us to CERCLA liability.  Application of various other federal and state environmental laws could also result in the imposition of liability on us for costs associated with environmental hazards. 

 

We routinely conduct environmental assessments for real estate we acquire for investment and before taking title through foreclosure to real property collateralizing mortgages that we hold.  Although unexpected environmental liabilities can always arise, based on these environmental assessments and compliance with our internal procedures, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any clean-up of properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

 

Intellectual Property

 

We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property.  We have implemented a patent strategy designed to protect innovative aspects of our products and processes which we believe distinguish us from competitors.  We currently own several issued U.S. patents.

 

We have an extensive portfolio of trademarks and service marks that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademarks of the Lincoln National and Lincoln Financial names, the Lincoln silhouette logo and the combination of these marks.  Trademark registrations may be renewed indefinitely subject to continued use and registration requirements.  We regard our trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our products and services and intend to protect them against infringement and dilution.

 

HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT

 

As of December 31, 2020, we had a total of 10,966 employees, all based in the United States.  Our mission is to help Americans achieve financial peace of mind by offering leading products and services.  We believe that every move we make, including how we manage talent, shapes the future we share with our customers, communities and investors.  Accordingly, each of our employees has access to important resources designed to, among other things, help them improve their well-being, understand the value of their work, develop their careers and thrive in a diverse and inclusive environment.  From the moment our employees become part of Lincoln, they’re empowered to “Be Lincoln” by living and acting with integrity and optimism in their communities, relationships and daily interactions with colleagues and clients.  Our enterprise strategy is driven by continued focus on this unique employee culture, including the following key areas: 

 

Diversity and Inclusion

 

We believe that diversity and inclusion are fundamental to our ability to deliver on our promise to help customers secure their financial futures.  Our diversity and inclusion strategy is designed to deliver outcomes based on objectives and milestones in our workplace, marketplace and the broader communities we serve.  This strategy ensures that a culture of diversity and inclusion permeates every level of our organization as well as our interactions with partners and suppliers.

 

 

 

17

Table of Contents

 

 

Our Board of Directors provides executive oversight of stated priorities, progress and strategic plans to support diversity and inclusion across the enterprise.  Lincoln’s commitment to diversity and inclusion begins at the highest level of management as a formal expectation of our leaders and all employees, as part of our performance management process.  Our employees are actively involved in our efforts to further diversity and inclusion at the company and beyond, through the work of our seven Business Resource Groups (“BRGs”).  We maintain our BRG chapters nationwide across seven categories:  African American, Asian American, Latino, LGBTQ, People with Disabilities, Veterans and Women.  Each BRG is sponsored and supported by senior leaders across the enterprise.

 

Employee Feedback and Employee Engagement 

 

We actively listen to our employees in a variety of ways, including enterprise-wide and department-specific engagement surveys and focus groups, and we gather feedback on an ongoing basis.  The Company conducts a comprehensive, company-wide engagement survey every two years, and department-specific pulse surveys in the alternate years, to inform our human resources strategy, measure progress and adjust plans, as necessary.  We focus on equipping our managers to foster employee development and strengthen their voices.  We support our managers through tools, resources and development programs to help them be the best leaders possible.  We have also created tools to help managers develop and execute on targeted action plans to address areas of opportunity for their work groups.

 

Talent and Development

 

Our talent strategy supports Lincoln’s ability to identify, develop, engage, retain and reward the talent we need for success in a competitive environment of constant change.  Our employees work together with their managers to learn new skills, create an annual individual development plan and shape their careers.  Their collaborative efforts are backed by a variety of resources we make available and guided by our Career Framework, which provides tools and resources to help employees discover, assess, plan and invest in their careers.

 

Our vision is to foster a premier learning culture, one that enhances leadership effectiveness, accelerates employee development and helps drive business performance.  Employees can access a range of learning and development opportunities including numerous instructor-led, self-paced and curated courses.  We have partnered with Harvard Business Publishing, a subsidiary of Harvard Business School, to offer courses specifically designed for our mid-level employees and senior level leaders.  All Lincoln employees can also participate in Coursera, a massive open online course provider that offers classes from some of the world’s top universities.

 

Total Rewards and Employee Well-Being

 

We invest in our employees’ futures by offering market-competitive compensation and a broad range of health and wellness programs as well as wealth accumulation, financial health and protection plans.  Our employees receive a personalized Your Total Rewards statement that provides a comprehensive look at their direct and indirect compensation - the total investment that we make in them. 

 

We offer paid time off and various flexible work arrangements, in addition to benefits and wellness programs focusing on the physical, social and financial well-being of our employees.  For eligible employees, such programs include: 

 

a medical plan with domestic partner eligibility, plus optional dental and vision, a health savings account with a company contribution and a healthcare flexible spending account;

a well-being program provides access to personal health coaches, on-site health screenings and flu shots, discounts and reimbursements for programs that promote health;

an employee assistance program (“EAP”);

paid parental leave and adoption assistance programs;

a dependent care flexible spending account;

access to Homework Connection which, provides one-on-one, on-demand homework help to students at no cost to employees; 

dedicated Lincoln Financial Retirement Consultants to evaluate employee retirement readiness and help them map out ways to improve;

our employee 401(k) plan with a company match and other convenient features; and

accident and critical illness insurance coverages, short- and long-term disability plans, and company-provided life insurance.

 

Health and Safety During COVID-19 Pandemic

 

To protect the health and safety of our employees and their loved ones during the COVID-19 pandemic, we took early action, implementing comprehensive measures to safeguard employees in alignment with guidelines established by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and state and local governments in the locations in which we operate.  Starting as early as February 2020, we implemented travel restrictions, visitor vetting, social distancing and enhanced cleaning requirements.  Soon after, in mid-March 2020, we moved to 99% work-from-home for our employees.  For the small population of essential employees who remain working in our offices, we have implemented robust health and safety protocols, including providing masks, enhanced cleaning and requiring social distancing and in-office location tracking for each individual. 

 

 

 

18

Table of Contents

 

 

During the pandemic, we also implemented several policies and programs to enhance support for our employees, including Emergency Leave Time, which provides additional time off for employees if needed, related to the impacts of COVID-19.  We also waived insurance co-payments for COVID-19 testing and telemedicine visits.  Additionally, we increased internal communication regarding many of our existing benefits and programs that could help employees during this challenging time, such as our free mental health and wellness resources, including access to the EAP for employees and members of their households.

 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

 

We file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Exchange Act.  The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, including LNC, that file electronically with the SEC.  The public can obtain any documents that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.

 

We also make available, free of charge, on or through our website, www.lfg.com, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, including exhibits, and all amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. 

 

The information contained on our website is not included as part of, or incorporated by reference into, this report.
