General Information

Lowe’s Companies, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company or Lowe’s) is a Fortune® 50 company and the world’s second largest home improvement retailer. As of January 29, 2021, Lowe’s operated 1,974 home improvement and hardware stores, representing approximately 208 million square feet of retail selling space. These operations included 1,734 stores located across 50 U.S. states, as well as 240 stores in Canada.

The Canadian stores include RONA inc. (RONA), which was acquired by Lowe’s in 2016. RONA operates 179 stores in Canada as of January 29, 2021, as well as services approximately 231 dealer-owned stores. The RONA stores represent complementary store formats operating under various banners.

Lowe’s was incorporated in North Carolina in 1952 and has been publicly held since 1961. The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange - ticker symbol “LOW”.

See Item 6, “Selected Financial Data”, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report), for historical revenues, profits and identifiable assets. For additional information about the Company’s performance and financial condition, see also Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report.

Customers, Market and Competition

Our Customers

We serve homeowners, renters, and professional customers (Pro customers). Individual homeowners and renters complete a wide array of projects and vary along the spectrum of do-it-yourself (DIY) and do-it-for-me (DIFM). The Pro customer consists of two broad categories: construction trades and maintenance, repair & operations.

Our Market

The U.S. market remains our predominant market, accounting for approximately 94% of consolidated sales for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2021. We are among the many businesses, including home centers, paint stores, hardware stores, lumber yards and garden centers, whose revenues are included in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers Subsector (444) of the Retail Trade Sector of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), the standard used by Federal statistical agencies in classifying business establishments for the purpose of collecting, analyzing, and publishing statistical data related to the U.S. business economy.  

NAICS 444 represents roughly half of what we consider the total U.S. market for our products and services.  The broader market in which Lowe’s operates includes home-related sales through a variety of companies beyond those in NAICS 444.  These consist of other companies in the retail sector, including mass retailers, home goods specialty stores, and online retailers, as well as wholesalers that provide home-related products and services to homeowners, businesses, and the government.  
 
There are many variables that affect consumer demand for the home improvement products and services Lowe’s offers.  Key indicators we monitor include real disposable personal income, employment, home prices, housing turnover, and consumer mobility.  We also monitor demographic and societal trends that shape home improvement industry growth.
 
Our Competition

The home improvement industry includes a broad competitive landscape that continues to evolve.  Lowe’s competes with national and international home improvement warehouse chains and lumber yards in most of the markets we serve.  We also compete with traditional hardware, plumbing, electrical, home supply retailers, and maintenance and repair organizations.  In addition, we compete with general merchandise retailers, warehouse clubs, online retailers, other specialty retailers, providers of equipment and tool rental, as well as service providers that install home improvement products.  Location of stores, product assortment, product pricing and customer service continue to be key competitive factors in our industry, while the evolution of technology and customer expectations also underscores the importance of omni-channel capabilities as a competitive factor.  To ensure ongoing competitiveness, Lowe’s focuses on delivering the right home improvement products, with the best service and
1
Table of Contents
value, across every channel and community we serve.  See further discussion of competition in Item 1A, “Risk Factors”, of this Annual Report.
 
Products and Services

Our Products

Product Selection
To meet customers’ varying needs, we offer a complete line of products for construction, maintenance, repair, remodeling, and decorating.  We offer home improvement products in the following categories: Appliances, Seasonal & Outdoor Living, Lawn & Garden, Lumber, Kitchens & Bath, Tools, Paint, Millwork, Hardware, Flooring, Rough Plumbing, Building Materials, Décor, Lighting, and Electrical.  A typical Lowe’s-branded home improvement store stocks approximately 40,000 items, with over two million additional items available through our online selling channels. See Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, of this Annual Report for historical revenues by product category for each of the last three fiscal years.

We are committed to offering a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise complemented by our selection of private brands.  In addition, we are dedicated to ensuring the products we sell are sourced in a socially responsible, efficient, and cost-effective manner.

National Brand-Name Merchandise
In many product categories, customers look for a familiar and trusted national brand to instill confidence in their purchase.  Lowe’s home improvement stores carry a wide selection of national brand-name merchandise such as Whirlpool®, GE®, LG®, and Samsung® appliances, Stainmaster® carpets, Sherwin-Williams® and Valspar® paints and stains, Pella® windows and doors, Pergo® hardwood flooring, CRAFTSMAN® and DeWALT® power tools, Metabo® pneumatic tools, Weber® and Char-Broil® grills, Owens Corning® insulation and roofing, GAF® roofing, James Hardie® fiber cement siding, Marshalltown® masonry tools and concrete, Husqvarna®, EGO® and SKIL® outdoor power equipment, John Deere® riding lawn mowers, Werner® ladders, Quoizel® lighting, Nest® products, SharkBite® plumbing products, A. O. Smith® water heaters, Norton® abrasives, Simpson Strong-Tie® connectors, Eaton® electrical products, and many more.  Our merchandise selection provides the retail and Pro customer a one-stop shop for a wide variety of national brand-name merchandise needed to complete home improvement, repair, maintenance, or construction projects.

Private Brands
Private brands are an important element of our overall portfolio, helping to increase customer loyalty, drive sales, and expand differentiation.  We have a strong private brand presence across core categories, including some of our most valuable brands such as: Kobalt® tools; allen+roth® and Style Selections® home décor products; Severe Weather® pressure treated lumber; Project Source® high-value project completers; Holiday Living® seasonal products; Harbor Breeze® ceiling fans; Sta-Green® lawn and garden products; Moxie® cleaning products; Reliabilt® doors, windows, and hardware; and Utilitech® electrical and utility products.

Supply Chain
We source our products from vendors worldwide and believe that alternative and competitive suppliers are available for virtually all of our products.  Whenever possible, we purchase directly from manufacturers to provide savings for customers and improve our gross margin.
To efficiently move product from our vendors to our stores and maintain in-stock levels, we own and operate distribution facilities that enable products to be received from vendors, stored and picked, or cross-docked, and then shipped to our retail locations or directly to customers. These facilities include 15 regional distribution centers (RDC) and 15 flatbed distribution centers (FDC) in the United States. The FDCs distribute merchandise that requires special handling due to size or type of packaging such as lumber, boards, panel products, pipe, siding, ladders, and building materials. On average, each RDC and FDC serves approximately 115 stores. We also own and operate seven distribution centers, including four lumber yards, to serve our Canadian market.
In addition to the RDCs and FDCs, we also operate coastal holding and transload facilities to handle import product, bulk distribution centers (BDC) to handle appliances and other big and bulky product, cross-dock delivery terminals (XDT) to fulfill final mile box truck deliveries, and fulfillment centers (FC) focused on parcel post eligible products. In fiscal 2020, we enhanced our distribution network by adding thirteen XDTs, two BDCs, and one FC.

2
Table of Contents
Collectively, our facilities enable our import and e-commerce products to get to their destination as efficiently as possible. Most parcel-eligible items can be ordered by a customer and delivered within two business days at standard shipping rates.

In fiscal 2020, approximately 67% of the total dollar amount of merchandise we purchased flowed through our distribution network, while the remaining portion was shipped directly to our stores from vendors.

Our Services

Installed Sales
We offer installation services through independent contractors in many of our product categories, with Appliances, Flooring, Kitchens & Bath, Lumber, Building Materials, and Millwork accounting for the majority of installed sales.  Our Installed Sales model, which separates selling and project administration tasks, allows our sales associates to focus on project selling, while project managers ensure that the details related to installing the products are efficiently executed.  Installed Sales, which includes both product and labor, accounted for approximately 5% of total sales in fiscal 2020.

Extended Protection Plans and Repair Services
We offer extended protection plans for various products within the Appliances, Kitchens & Bath, Décor, Millwork, Rough Plumbing, Electrical, Seasonal & Outdoor Living, Tools, and Hardware categories. These protection plans provide customers with product protection that enhances or extends coverage offered by the manufacturer’s warranty and provides additional customer-friendly benefits that go beyond the scope of a manufacturer’s warranty. The protection plans provide in-warranty benefits and out-of-warranty repair services for major appliances, outdoor power equipment, tools, grills, fireplaces, air conditioners, water heaters, and other eligible products through our stores or in the home through the Lowe’s Authorized Service Repair Network. We offer replacement plans for products in most of these categories when priced below $300, or otherwise specified category-specific price points. Our contact center takes customers’ calls, assesses the problems, and facilitates resolutions, making after-sales service easier for our customers by managing the entire process.

Selling Channels

We are continuing to enhance our omni-channel capabilities, which allows our customers to move from channel to channel with simple and seamless transitions even within the same transaction. For example, for many projects, more than half of our customers conduct research online before making an in-store purchase. For purchases made on Lowes.com, customers may pick up their purchase in-store at the customer service desk, curbside pick-up, or touchless lockers; have their purchase delivered from a store; or have their purchase parcel shipped. In addition, flexible fulfillment options are available for in-store purchases and those made through the contact center. Regardless of the channels through which customers choose to engage with us, we strive to provide them with a seamless experience across channels and an endless aisle of products, enabled by our flexible fulfillment capabilities. Our ability to sell products in-store, online, on-site, or through our contact centers speaks to our ability to leverage our existing infrastructure with the omni-channel capabilities we continue to introduce.

In-Store
Our 1,795 Lowe’s-branded home improvement stores, inclusive of 1,734 in the U.S. and 61 in Canada, are generally open seven days per week and average approximately 112,000 square feet of retail selling space, plus approximately 32,000 square feet of outdoor garden center selling space.  The 179 RONA stores operate under various complementary store formats that address target customers and occasions. Our home improvement stores in the U.S. and Canada offer similar products and services, with certain variations based on localization.  We continue to develop and implement tools to make our sales associates more efficient and to integrate our order management and fulfillment processes.  Our home improvement stores have Wi-Fi capabilities that provide customers with internet access, making information available quickly to further simplify the shopping experience.

Online
Through our websites and mobile applications, we seek to empower consumers by providing a 24/7 shopping experience, online product information, customer ratings and reviews, online buying guides and how-to videos and other information.  These tools help consumers make more informed purchasing decisions and give them increased confidence to undertake home improvement projects. We enable customers to choose from a variety of fulfillment options, including buying online and picking up in-store, as well as delivery or parcel shipment to their homes or businesses.

On-Site
We have on-site specialists available for retail and Pro customers to assist them in selecting products and services for their projects.  Our Pro Sales Managers meet with Pro customers at their place of business or on a job site and leverage nearby stores and our distribution network to ensure we meet customer needs for products and resources.  In addition, our Project Specialist
3
Table of Contents
Exteriors (PSE) program is available in a majority of U.S. Lowe’s home improvement stores to discuss exterior projects such as roofing, siding, fencing, and windows, whose characteristics lend themselves to an in-home consultative sales approach. 

Contact Centers
Lowe’s operates three contact centers which are located in Wilkesboro, NC; Albuquerque, NM; and Indianapolis, IN. These contact centers help Lowe’s enable an omni-channel customer experience by providing the ability to tender sales, coordinate deliveries, manage after-sale installations, facilitate repair services for Appliances and Outdoor Power Equipment, and answer general customer questions via phone, mail, e-mail, live chat, and social media.

Human Capital

When it comes to recruiting and retaining top talent, Lowe’s strives to be an employer of choice. We are committed to creating valuable career opportunities for our associates, supporting them and the communities where they live, and cultivating a culture that invites and encourages diverse opinions and ideas. We enable our associates to build meaningful careers and unlock their potential in an inclusive workplace as we work together to deliver the right home improvement products, with the best service and value, across every channel and community we serve.

Our People
As of January 29, 2021, Lowe’s employed approximately 220,000 full-time associates and 120,000 part-time associates, primarily in the United States and Canada. In fiscal 2020, we expanded our workforce, hiring associates in part-time, seasonal and full-time positions to fulfill the seasonal demand of our Spring season, increased demand during the COVID-19 pandemic as customers focused on home improvement projects, and a nationwide effort to modify our store layout.

Certain employees in Canada are subject to collective bargaining agreements. No other employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Management considers its relations with employees to be good.

Diversity and Inclusion
We believe that, by building diverse and inclusive teams, we drive better ideas, positive business results, and improved service through a deeper connection with our customers. During fiscal 2019, we kicked-off a multi-year program to integrate diversity and inclusion initiatives into our corporate strategy across three areas: talent, culture and business. To foster an inclusive culture, we launched seven business resource employee groups sponsored by our executive leadership team in 2019 and continued to support those groups virtually in 2020.

Talent Development
We are committed to securing top talent and providing ongoing training to facilitate meaningful careers at Lowe’s. We offer a variety of leadership and development programs that develop diverse and other high potential associates. We also have certification programs available to our store and technology associates to further develop their skills and knowledge base. Additionally, through our partnership with Guild Education, Lowe’s Track to the Trades program provides tuition reimbursement to our associates, encouraging them to complete apprentice certifications in carpentry, plumbing, electrical, heat, air ventilation and cooling (HVAC) or appliance repair.

We have also seen great strides in our internal culture. This year, we saw higher participation and engagement scores in our annual Building Engagement and Success Together (BEST) associate engagement survey which helps senior management understand from our associates what Lowe’s is doing well and where we have opportunities for improvement.

Total Rewards and Wellness
In the spirit of building the best team and providing them with the best care, we are proud of the financial and well-being benefits we offer to our associates. We have a history of investing in our workforce by offering locally competitive salaries and wages. We offer a wide variety of health, welfare and financial benefits to our full-time and part-time associates, including health care and insurance benefits, retirement plans, an employee stock purchase plan, paid time off, leave programs and tuition assistance, among many others.

In response to the novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, we expanded benefits and wellness programs to increase access to care. We waived co-payments on pharmacy home deliveries, covered 100% of COVID-19 testing and related treatment, expanded telemedicine services to our uninsured associates, shifted onsite clinics to a virtual care model, and launched a new virtual behavioral health app. We also provided 14 days of emergency paid leave for all associates who needed it, and up to four weeks of emergency paid leave for associates at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19.

4
Table of Contents
During fiscal 2020, we provided $915 million in incremental COVID-related financial support for our front-line hourly associates. This included seven discretionary payments of $300 for full-time hourly associates and $150 for part-time hourly associates, as well as a temporary $2 per hour wage increase in the month of April, and emergency paid leave taken by associates who needed it.

Store and Workplace Safety
Our associates and customers drive our success and providing them a safe environment for both working and shopping is essential. We strive to maintain a culture of safety beginning with our leaders modeling the behaviors we want our associates to adopt, and we embed safety into associate onboarding, developmental e-learning and on-the-job training. In fiscal 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented numerous safety standards in support of social distancing and enhanced sanitizing and cleaning.

Seasonality and Working Capital

The retail business in general is subject to seasonal influences, and our business is, to some extent, seasonal.  Historically, we have realized the highest volume of sales during our second fiscal quarter (May, June, and July) and the lowest volume of sales during our fourth fiscal quarter (November, December, and January).  Accordingly, our working capital requirements have historically been greater during our fourth fiscal quarter as we build inventory in anticipation of the spring selling season and as we experience lower fourth fiscal quarter sales volumes.  We fund our working capital requirements primarily through cash flows generated from operations, but also with short-term borrowings, as needed.  For more detailed information, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, of this Annual Report.

Intellectual Property

The name “Lowe’s” is a registered service mark of one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. We consider this mark and the accompanying name recognition to be valuable to our business. This subsidiary and other wholly-owned subsidiaries own and maintain various additional registered and unregistered trademarks, trade names and service marks, including but not limited to retail names “RONA” and “Reno Depot”, and private brand product names “Kobalt” and “allen+roth”. These subsidiaries also maintain various Internet domain names that are important to our business, and we also own registered and unregistered copyrights. In addition, we maintain patent portfolios related to some of our products and services and seek to patent or otherwise protect certain innovations that we incorporate into our products, services, or business operations.

Government Regulation

We are subject to a wide array of federal, state, and local laws and regulations. We do not currently expect compliance with these laws and regulations to have a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position as compared to prior periods.

Sustainability

Lowe’s has a proud history of managing our business responsibly and serving our associates and communities. We believe our commitment to sustainability, including our focus on product sustainability, our associates and communities, and reducing the environmental footprint of our operations will help drive long-term shareholder value. In fiscal 2020, for the second consecutive year, Lowe’s was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index based on our environmental, social, and governance practices.

Product Sustainability
Lowe’s is committed to promoting sustainable practices throughout our supply chain and providing customers with high quality and safe products. Our products undergo a thorough selection process, beginning with our sourcing decisions. Through collaboration and established management systems, we monitor our suppliers’ practices to secure high-quality products from suppliers who support worker rights and protect the environment. In fiscal 2019, we published a human rights policy and a revised conflict minerals policy to hold all suppliers to our rigorous standards. In fiscal 2020, we also updated our Vendor Code of Conduct with enhanced environmental standards for all suppliers. In addition, Lowe’s upholds a wood sourcing policy that provides that all wood products sold in our stores originate from well-managed, non-endangered forests.

5
Table of Contents
We continue to expand our product portfolio with more environmentally friendly products that provide health and environmental benefits to our customers and communities. We continue to work with local and regional utilities to offer customers assorted rebates for a variety of environmentally efficient products including ENERGY STAR® and WaterSense®.

Reducing our Environmental Footprint
Lowe’s is committed to reducing our environmental impact through investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy, environmentally friendly transportation practices, and innovative water and waste management systems. In fiscal 2020, approximately 500 retail locations upgraded to interior light-emitting diode (LED) lighting. We also replaced 100 stores’ aging HVAC units with high-efficiency models. Our renewable energy portfolio expanded in 2020 when 100 megawatts of wind energy became operational in central Texas, which will produce the equivalent amount of energy to power all 144 Lowe’s stores in Texas.

We are dedicated to promoting sustainable practices in the transportation industry, and we collaborate with the Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay program to reduce transportation emissions by managing and reducing fuel usage by creating incentives for freight contractors to improve efficiency and are proud to be the first retailer to achieve the Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay Excellence Award ten years in a row.

Lowe’s participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) climate, forestry, and water security questionnaires to benchmark and quantify our environmental practices in an effort to be transparent in our progress and assist in the reduction of our contributions to climate change. In fiscal 2020, Lowe’s externally verified its greenhouse gas emissions data to validate our findings and increase confidence in our reporting. At a local level, store waste, including cardboard, broken appliances, wood pallets, and more, are recycled through national and regional partners, and we provide in-store recycling centers for our customers to bring in plastic planter pots, compact fluorescent lamp bulbs, plastic bags, and rechargeable batteries.

For more information about Lowe’s sustainability efforts, please visit responsibility.lowes.com.

Investing in Our Communities

Lowe’s legacy has long included a deep commitment to the communities where we live and work. In 2020, the global pandemic forced everyone to live and work differently, but we remained committed to supporting the well-being of our associates, customers, and communities, including healthcare providers and first responders.

While adapting our own business to the challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, we witnessed our nonprofit partners’ needs growing rapidly as well. At a time when too many individuals already struggle to have a safe and healthy place to live, small businesses faced unprecedented challenges, especially across minority and rural communities. Determined to help make a difference and putting action behind our words of commitment to our communities, Lowe’s contributed $109 million in pandemic relief to support our communities, including grants to support minority-owned and rural small businesses.

Lowe's established a small business grant program in partnership with Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC). Throughout 2020, the program provided grants of up to $20,000 to rural, minority-owned, and women-owned small business owners to help meet their most immediate needs. For many, that meant being able to pay rent and utilities, meet payroll, pay outstanding debt to vendors, upgrade technology infrastructure, and support other immediate operational costs.

As the COVID-19 global pandemic persisted throughout 2020, Lowe’s took seriously our responsibility to provide essential products and services to our customers, government officials, and first responders. In addition to donating essential personal protective equipment (PPE) and products to help keep medical professionals on the front lines safe and healthy, we also empowered all Lowe’s stores to donate masks and respirators to local small businesses to help them remain open or reopen under challenging circumstances.

Despite the challenges of the pandemic, we have continued to focus our philanthropy by investing in safe, affordable housing initiatives and workforce development programs that address the skilled trades gap. Lowe’s also supports veteran-related initiatives within these two focus areas and continues to assist customers, associates and communities before, during, and after natural disasters by partnering with disaster response and relief organizations.

In addition, we are proud to report that in 2020, every Lowe’s store in the United States and Canada was able to contribute to their communities through the Lowe’s Heroes program. Lowe's is also dedicated to helping our associates in times of need. Our Lowe’s Employee Relief Fund, made possible through associate donations and company matching, supports associates in times of significant, unforeseen financial hardship. In 2020, Lowe’s Employee Relief Fund distributed almost $3 million, helping 2,500 associates in need.
6
Table of Contents

For more information on Lowe’s partnerships and latest community improvement projects, visit responsibility.lowes.com.

Available Information
 
Our Annual Report, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are made available free of charge through our internet website at ir.lowes.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  The SEC maintains an Internet site, www.sec.gov, that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
