Item 1.    Business
Company Overview

Southwest Airlines Co. (the "Company" or "Southwest") operates Southwest Airlines, a major passenger airline that provides scheduled air transportation in the United States and near-international markets. Southwest commenced service on June 18, 1971, with three Boeing 737 aircraft serving three Texas cities: Dallas, Houston, and San Antonio. At December 31, 2020, Southwest had a total of 718 Boeing 737 aircraft in its fleet and 107 destinations in 40 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and ten near-international countries: Mexico, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Aruba, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Belize, Cuba, the Cayman Islands, and Turks and Caicos.

During 2020, the Company began service to six new destinations including Hilo on Hawaii; Cozumel, Mexico; Steamboat Springs, Colorado; Miami, Florida; Palm Springs, California; and Montrose (Telluride and Crested Butte), Colorado. In addition, the Company has published its initial flight schedules to begin serving Chicago O'Hare International Airport and Sarasota Bradenton International Airport, beginning February 14, 2021, Colorado Springs Municipal Airport and Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport, beginning March 11, 2021, Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport and Santa Barbara Airport, beginning April 12, 2021, Fresno Yosemite International Airport, beginning April 25, 2021, and Jackson-Medgar Wiley Evers International Airport in Mississippi, beginning June 6, 2021.

Worldwide Pandemic

As a result of the rapid spread of the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, throughout the world, including into the United States, on March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization classified the virus as a pandemic. The speed with which the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have changed the U.S. economic landscape, outlook, and in particular the travel industry, has been swift and unexpected. The Company began to see a negative impact on bookings for future travel in late February 2020, which quickly accelerated during the remainder of first quarter and into second quarter, when trip cancellations outpaced new passenger bookings during the majority of March and April 2020. The Company began proactively canceling a significant portion of its scheduled flights in March 2020, and continued adjusting capacity throughout the remainder of the year, as the Company grounded a significant portion of its fleet and operated a significantly reduced portion of its previously scheduled capacity. The Company continued to experience significant negative impacts to passenger demand and bookings through the remainder of 2020 due to the pandemic.

Based on these events and the uncertainty they created, the Company immediately began to focus on its liquidity, including quickly and substantially enhancing its cash holdings. In April 2020, the Company entered into definitive documentation with the United States Department of Treasury (the "Treasury") with respect to funding support pursuant to the Payroll Support Program under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act"). Payroll support funds under the CARES Act were required to be used solely to pay qualifying Employee salaries, wages, and benefits through at least September 30, 2020. On January 15, 2021, as a result of continued financial hardships to the Company caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company entered into definitive documentation with the Treasury for further payroll support under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the "Payroll Support Program Extension"). Payroll support funds under the Payroll Support Program Extension must be used to pay qualifying Employee salaries, wages, and benefits through at least March 31, 2021.

In addition to obtaining financing under the CARES Act and the Payroll Support Program Extension, the Company obtained significant financing in the capital markets and elsewhere. The Company believes it has made significant progress on bolstering its liquidity through efforts including aggressively evaluating all capital spending, discretionary spending, and non-essential costs for near-term cost reductions or deferrals; reducing the Company's published flight schedule; placing a significant number of aircraft in storage; implementing voluntary separation and time-off programs for Employees; substantially suspending all hiring; reducing the Chief Executive Officer's salary
3

by 20 percent; reducing the other named executive officer salaries and Board of Director cash retainer fees by 20 percent through December 31, 2020; and where possible, modifying vendor and supplier payment terms. For further information on risks related to COVID-19, as well as the significant impacts of COVID-19 on the Company's operations, financial performance, and liquidity, see "Risk Factors," "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Notes 2, 7, 8, and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company also took significant measures in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to support the well-being of both its Customers and Employees including, for example:

•implementing enhanced aircraft cleaning procedures;
•requiring mask or face coverings for Employees and Customers (age two or over);
•implementing measures to support physical distancing, including messaging to Customers and Employees, and modified boarding procedures;
•limiting the number of seats available for sale on each flight through November 30, 2020, to allow for the middle seat to remain open;
•adding Plexiglas® at ticketing and gate counters and baggage services offices;
•implementing Customer and Employee health declarations;
•offering the ability to work remotely to most of the Company's office and clerical Employees, including the vast majority of its Employees at the Company's headquarters campus; and
•working with physician-scientists with knowledge and expertise in infectious disease, disease prevention, and testing protocols, and in particular the latest medical research about COVID-19, to review the Company's multi-layered approach to supporting the well-being of Customers and Employees during the COVID-19 pandemic.

Boeing 737 MAX Grounding

In March 2019, the Federal Aviation Administration (the "FAA") issued an emergency order for all U.S. airlines to ground the Boeing 737 MAX aircraft ("MAX"), including the 34 MAX 8 aircraft in the Company’s fleet at that time (the "MAX groundings"). As discussed below under "Company Operations" and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the MAX 8 aircraft are the Company's most fuel-efficient aircraft and the MAX groundings have adversely affected the Company's operations and financial results.

On November 18, 2020, the FAA rescinded its March 2019 grounding order, issued an airworthiness directive, and published training requirements, enabling the Company to begin modifying certain operating procedures, implementing enhanced pilot training requirements, installing FAA-approved flight control software updates, and completing other required maintenance tasks specific to the MAX aircraft. Before the Company returns the MAX aircraft to Customer service, every active Southwest Pilot is expected to:

•complete additional FAA-required flight training in one of the Company's nine 737 MAX simulators;
•complete additional FAA-required computer-based training covering MAX procedures; and
•re-take the Company's original 737 MAX 8 computer-based differences training as a refresher to complement the FAA-required training.

Additionally, the Company is continuing work on its 34 MAX aircraft delivered prior to the FAA’s rescission of its grounding order to prepare each aircraft for the return to Customer service, including removing the aircraft from storage, installing the new flight control software updates, and performing required maintenance checks. The Company will also conduct multiple readiness flights on each of its MAX aircraft before each such aircraft is operated in Customer service. The Company has scheduled the MAX return to revenue service on March 11, 2021.

Industry

4

As discussed above under "Business – Worldwide Pandemic," the travel industry was adversely impacted in 2020 by the COVID-19 pandemic. Like the Company, other U.S. airlines experienced significant year-over-year negative impacts to passenger demand and bookings, but the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on some of these airlines was particularly severe because of the significant reduction in business demand resulting from companies tightening or even suspending corporate travel. This not only reduced overall demand for air travel, but also resulted in a decrease in the percentage of full-fare purchases. Like the Company, these other airlines responded by quickly and significantly reducing scheduled flights and capacity, reducing operating costs and capital expenditures, accelerating fleet retirements, substantially increasing cash holdings and/or reducing or suspending service in certain markets. Unlike the Company, certain other airlines also furloughed employees and/or ceased service in certain markets.

In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, air carriers with the MAX aircraft in their fleets were prohibited from operating the MAX aircraft until completing the FAA's airworthiness directive and training requirements published on November 18, 2020.

The airline industry has historically been an extremely volatile industry subject to numerous other challenges. Among other things, it has been cyclical, energy intensive, labor intensive, capital intensive, technology intensive, highly regulated, heavily taxed, and extremely competitive. The airline industry has also been particularly susceptible to detrimental events such as economic recessions, jet fuel price volatility, unscheduled maintenance disruptions, U.S. government shutdowns, acts of terrorism, poor weather, and natural disasters.
Historically, airline industry results have been particularly susceptible to fuel price volatility; however, the industry experienced a relatively stable and moderate fuel environment in 2020, as compared with recent years, with year-over-year fuel prices lower throughout most of 2020.

Company Operations

Route Structure

Southwest has historically principally provided point-to-point service, rather than the "hub-and-spoke" service provided by most major U.S. airlines. The hub-and-spoke system concentrates most of an airline's operations at a limited number of central hub cities and serves most other destinations in the system by providing one-stop or connecting service through a hub. By not concentrating operations through one or more central transfer points, Southwest's point-to-point route structure has allowed for more direct nonstop routing than hub-and-spoke service. However, in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company placed greater reliance in 2020 on connecting traffic in an effort to capture Customer demand. Approximately 72 percent of the Company's Customers flew nonstop during 2020, compared with 77 percent during 2019, and, as of December 31, 2020, Southwest served 667 nonstop city pairs, compared with 720 as of December 31, 2019. For 2020, the Company’s average aircraft trip stage length was 743 miles, with an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours, as compared with an average aircraft trip stage length of 748 miles and an average duration of approximately 2.0 hours in 2019.

Southwest’s point-to-point service has also enabled it to provide its markets with frequent, conveniently timed flights and low fares. For example, Southwest currently offers 8 weekday roundtrips between Dallas Love Field and Houston Hobby, five weekday roundtrips between Denver and Chicago Midway, four weekday roundtrips between Los Angeles International and Las Vegas, and eight weekday roundtrips between Phoenix and Denver. Southwest complements its high-frequency short-haul routes with long-haul nonstop service including flights between California and Hawaii and between markets such as Los Angeles and Nashville, Los Angeles and Baltimore, and San Diego and Baltimore.

The Company continually works to optimize its route network and schedule through the adjustment of frequencies in its existing markets and the addition of new markets and itineraries, while also pruning less profitable flights from its schedule. The Company's network and schedule optimization efforts have been particularly beneficial in addressing the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the MAX groundings. For example, these efforts have
5

enabled the Company to continue to expand in key existing markets, such as California, as well as opportunistically introduce service in other markets.

Despite the pandemic, the Company has been able to continue to bolster its presence in California through the addition of new destination options and flights for California Customers. In 2020, the Company significantly expanded its presence at Long Beach Airport by acquiring 17 slots previously held by JetBlue Airways (a "slot" is the right of an air carrier, pursuant to regulations of the FAA or local authorities, to operate a takeoff or landing at certain airports). Further, the Company expanded its California to Hawaii network in 2020 by adding inaugural service between San Diego and Honolulu on the Island of Oahu. The Company has also announced new service from Long Beach to Honolulu and from Long Beach to Kahului on the Island of Maui, each beginning March 11, 2021. The Company also expects to expand its service at John Wayne Airport (Orange County) in 2021, including reinstated international service beginning March 11, 2021, through county authorization to increase capacity to and from the airport. In addition, the Company is currently scheduled to offer over 600 departures from California on peak flying days in the summer of 2021. Based on the most recent data available from the U.S. Department of Transportation (the "DOT"), for the year ended September 30, 2020, Southwest carried more California travelers to, from, and within California than any other airline.

The Company's network and schedule optimization efforts have also enabled it to use otherwise idle aircraft and Employees to provide service to other core markets, as well as new destinations. The additional service has created additional regional and international connectivity that has been structured to improve recoverability during irregular operations, grow the Company's presence in strategic markets that serve as cornerstones for its network, and provide additional options for Customers to reach their final destinations. The Company expects to complement and strengthen its existing route network in or near cities where its Customer base is large, along with adding easier access to popular leisure-oriented destinations. These new destinations include four destinations added in fourth quarter 2020: Steamboat Springs, Colorado; Miami, Florida; Palm Springs, California; and Montrose (Telluride and Crested Butte), Colorado. The Company has further announced first quarter 2021 new service to Chicago O'Hare International Airport; Sarasota Bradenton International Airport; Colorado Springs Municipal Airport; and Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport; and has announced second quarter 2021 new service to Houston George Bush Intercontinental Airport, Santa Barbara Airport, Fresno Yosemite International Airport, and Jackson-Medgar Wiley Evers International Airport in Mississippi.

The COVID-19 pandemic has had a particularly negative impact on international operations and led to the Company's suspension of international operations in first quarter 2020. The Company was able to resume service to Mexico and the Caribbean via Cancun, San Jose del Cabo/Los Cabos, Montego Bay, and Nassau on July 1, 2020; Puerto Vallarta, Mexico on October 8, 2020; Punta Cana, Dominican Republic and Aruba on November 4, 2020; and Havana, Cuba on December 6, 2020. In response to local restrictions imposed by the Bahamian government, the Company temporarily suspended operations to Nassau effective July 22, 2020. The Company is scheduled to resume service to Cozumel, Mexico in first quarter 2021. Service to the Company's other international destinations is expected to resume pending the easing of government restrictions. The Company ended 2020 with 14 international destinations.

Cost Structure

A key component of the Company's business strategy is its focus on cost discipline and charging competitively low fares. Adjusted for stage length, the Company has lower unit costs, on average, than the majority of the largest domestic carriers; however, as discussed below under "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Company experienced significant unit cost pressure in 2019 following the MAX groundings, and in 2020 following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic.

The Company's low-cost strategy includes, among other elements, (i) the use of a single aircraft type, the Boeing 737, (ii) the Company's operationally efficient point-to-point route structure, and (iii) its highly productive Employees. Southwest's use of a single aircraft type allows for simplified scheduling, maintenance, flight operations, safety management, and training activities. Southwest's point-to-point route structure includes service to
6

and from many secondary or downtown airports such as Dallas Love Field, Houston Hobby, Chicago Midway, Baltimore-Washington International, Burbank, Manchester, Oakland, San Jose, Providence, and Ft. Lauderdale-Hollywood. These conveniently located airports are typically less congested than other airlines' hub airports, which has contributed to Southwest's ability to achieve high asset utilization because aircraft can be scheduled to minimize the amount of time they are on the ground. This, in turn, has reduced the number of aircraft and gate facilities that would otherwise be required and allows for high Employee productivity (lower headcount per aircraft).

The Company's focus on controlling costs also includes a continued commitment to pursuing, implementing, and enhancing initiatives to reduce fuel consumption and improve fuel efficiency. Although Fuel and oil expense for 2020 decreased compared with 2019, primarily due to capacity cuts in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and in part due to lower market jet fuel prices, Fuel and oil expense nonetheless remained the Company's second largest operating cost for 2020. As evidenced by the table below, energy prices can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short amount of time. The table below shows the Company's average cost of jet fuel for each year beginning in 2009 and during each quarter of 2020.

Year		Cost
(Millions)		Average
Cost Per
Gallon		Percentage of    
Operating
Expenses	2009		$	3,193 			$	2.22 			31.2 	%	2010		$	3,755 			$	2.61 			33.4 	%	2011		$	5,751 			$	3.25 			38.2 	%	2012		$	6,156 			$	3.32 			37.3 	%	2013		$	5,823 			$	3.19 			35.3 	%	2014		$	5,355 			$	2.97 			32.6 	%	2015		$	3,740 			$	1.96 			23.6 	%	2016		$	3,801 			$	1.90 			22.7 	%	2017		$	4,076 			$	1.99 			23.0 	%	2018		$	4,616 			$	2.20 			24.6 	%	2019		$	4,347 			$	2.09 			22.3 	%	2020		$	1,849 			$	1.45 			14.4 	%	First Quarter 2020		$	870 			$	1.90 			20.0 	%	Second Quarter 2020		$	257 			$	1.23 			12.0 	%	Third Quarter 2020	 	$	379 			$	1.18 			11.8 	%	Fourth Quarter 2020	 	$	343 			$	1.18 			10.8 	% 

The Company focuses on minimizing fuel consumption and improving fuel efficiency through fleet modernization and other fuel initiatives. For example, the Company previously retired all Boeing 737-300 aircraft from its fleet and introduced service with the MAX 8 aircraft, which is more fuel-efficient and releases fewer CO2 emissions per available seat mile than the Company's other aircraft; however, the MAX groundings resulted in the removal of these more fuel-efficient aircraft from the Company's schedule, which, in turn, drove a decline in the Company's overall fuel efficiency in 2019. Although the Company's MAX aircraft remained grounded throughout 2020, the Company improved its fuel efficiency in 2020, as compared with 2019, primarily by operating fewer of its oldest, least fuel-efficient Boeing 737-700 aircraft as a result of capacity cuts in response to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Lower load factors, due to COVID-19, also contributed to fuel efficiency during 2020. The Company continues to undertake a number of other fuel conservation initiatives, which are discussed in detail under "Regulation - Environmental Regulation."

The table below sets forth the Company's available seat miles produced per fuel gallon consumed over the last five years:
  	 	Year ended December 31,	 	 	2020	 	2019		2018		2017		2016	Available seat miles per fuel gallon consumed	 	81.3	 	75.7	 	76.3		75.2		74.4 
7


The Company also enters into fuel derivative contracts to manage its risk associated with significant increases in fuel prices. The Company's fuel hedging activities, as well as the risks associated with high and/or volatile fuel prices, are discussed in more detail below under "Risk Factors," "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Salaries, wages, and benefits expense constituted approximately 52.9 percent of the Company's operating expenses during 2020 and was the Company's largest operating cost. The Company's ability to control labor costs is limited by the terms of its collective-bargaining agreements, and increased labor costs have negatively impacted the Company's low-cost competitive position. The Company's labor costs, and risks associated therewith, are discussed in more detail below under "Risk Factors," "Business - Employees," and "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

Fare Structure

General

Southwest offers a relatively simple fare structure that features competitive fares and product benefits, including unrestricted fares, as well as lower fares available on a restricted basis. Southwest fare products include three major categories: "Wanna Get Away®," "Anytime," and "Business Select®," to provide Customers options when choosing a fare. All fare products include the privilege of two free checked bags (weight and size limits apply). Southwest does not charge fees for changes to flight reservations although fare differences may apply.

•"Wanna Get Away" fares are generally the lowest fares and are typically subject to advance purchase requirements. They are nonrefundable, but, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, travel funds may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. Wanna Get Away fares earn six Rapid Rewards® points, under Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program, for each dollar spent on the base fare. The Company's loyalty program is discussed below under "Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program."
•"Anytime" fares are, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, refundable if canceled, or travel funds may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with nonrefundable travel funds, then the travel funds will be nonrefundable if travel is canceled. Anytime fares earn 10 Rapid Rewards points for each dollar spent on the base fare.
•"Business Select" fares are, subject to Southwest's No Show Policy, refundable if canceled, or travel funds may be applied towards future travel on Southwest. If this fare is purchased with nonrefundable travel funds, then the funds will be nonrefundable if travel is canceled. Business Select fares also include additional perks such as priority boarding with a boarding position in the first 15 boarding positions within boarding group "A," 12 Rapid Rewards points per dollar spent on the base fare - the highest loyalty point multiplier of all Southwest fare products, and "Fly By®" priority security and/or ticket counter access in participating airports. Business Select fares also ordinarily include one complimentary premium beverage coupon for the day of travel (Customers must be of legal drinking age to drink alcoholic beverages); however, the Company has temporarily suspended premium drink service in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Southwest's No Show Policy applies if a Customer does not change or cancel a flight segment at least ten minutes prior to scheduled departure and the Customer does not travel on the scheduled flight. In such event, subject to certain exceptions, all segments associated with the reservation will be canceled, and (i) with respect to a "Wanna Get Away" fare, unused travel funds will be forfeited; and (ii) with respect to an "Anytime" or "Business Select" fare, unused travel funds will be held as travel credit for future travel by the Customer on Southwest.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in order to enhance and expand upon its already generous and flexible ticketing policies, the Company extended the expiration of the following Customer travel funds to September 7, 2022:

8

•Travel funds created because of a flight cancellation between March 1, 2020 and September 7, 2020; and
•Travel funds that would have expired between March 1, 2020 and September 7, 2020.

Ancillary Services

The Company offers ancillary services such as Southwest's EarlyBird Check-In®, Upgraded Boarding, and transportation of pets and unaccompanied minors, in accordance with Southwest's respective policies.

EarlyBird Check-In provides Customers with automatic check-in and an assigned boarding position before general boarding positions become available, thereby improving Customers' seat selection options (priority boarding privileges are already a benefit of being an "A-List" tier member under the Company's Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program). The Company has implemented a variable pricing model for EarlyBird Check-In based on the length of the flight and the historical popularity of EarlyBird Check-In on the route.

When available, Southwest sells Upgraded Boarding at the airport, which allows a Customer to pay for an open priority boarding position in the first 15 positions in its "A" boarding group.

Southwest’s Pet Policy provides Customers an opportunity to travel with a small cat or dog in the aircraft cabin on domestic flights. Southwest also has an unaccompanied minor travel policy to address the administrative costs and the extra care necessary to safely transport these Customers.

Inflight Entertainment Portal and WiFi Service

Southwest offers inflight entertainment and connectivity service on WiFi-enabled aircraft on the majority of its fleet, where available. Southwest's suite of complimentary offerings onboard WiFi-enabled aircraft includes movies-on-demand, messaging, music, live and on-demand television, weather, a flight tracker, and connecting flight information. The inflight entertainment service allows Customers to enjoy gate-to-gate entertainment directly on their personal wireless devices. Customers can also purchase satellite internet service while on WiFi-enabled aircraft.

The free inflight entertainment offerings include approximately 45 free movies-on-demand each month and free app messaging via iMessage or WhatsApp. The television product consists of over 15 live channels and up to 75 on-demand recorded episodes from popular television series. In addition, the onboard entertainment portal offers free digital music and live streaming radio service to Customers within the onboard entertainment portal.

Rapid Rewards Loyalty Program

Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program enables program members ("Members") to earn points for every dollar spent on Southwest base fares. The amount of points earned under the program is based on the base fare and fare class purchased, with higher fare products (e.g., Business Select) earning more points than lower fare products (e.g., Wanna Get Away). Each fare class is associated with a points earning multiplier, and points for flights are calculated by multiplying the base fare for the flight by the fare class multiplier. The amount of points required to be redeemed for a flight is based on the base fare and a multiplier. Under the program, (i) Members are able to redeem their points for every available seat, every day, on every flight, with no blackout dates; and (ii) points do not expire.

Under the program, Members continue to accumulate points until the time they decide to redeem them. As a result, the program provides Members significant flexibility and options for earning and redeeming rewards. For example, Members can earn more points (and/or achieve tiered status such as A-List and Companion Pass faster) by purchasing higher fare tickets. Members also have significant flexibility in redeeming points, such as the opportunity to book in advance to take advantage of a lower fare ticket (including many fare sales) and redeem fewer points or by being able to redeem more points and book at the last minute if seats are still available for sale. Members can also earn points through qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners (which include, for example, car rental agencies, hotels, and restaurants), as well as by using Southwest's co-branded Chase® Visa
9

credit card. In addition to earning points for revenue flights and qualifying purchases with Rapid Rewards Partners, Members also have the ability to purchase, gift, and transfer points, as well as the ability to donate points to selected charities.

Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program features tier status and Companion Pass programs for the most active Members, including "A-List" and "A-List Preferred" status. A Member who flies 25 qualifying one-way flight segments booked through Southwest or earns 35,000 tier qualifying points per calendar year will qualify for A-List status. A Member who flies 50 qualifying one-way flights booked through Southwest or earns 70,000 tier qualifying points per calendar year will qualify for A-List Preferred status. Except as noted below with respect to actions taken by the Company in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Member will maintain A-List or A-List Preferred status for the remainder of the calendar year in which the status was earned and for the entire calendar year immediately following. Both A-List and A-List Preferred Members enjoy benefits such as "Fly By®" priority check-in and security lane access, where available, as well as dedicated phone lines, standby priority, and an earnings bonus on eligible revenue flights (25 percent for A-List and 100 percent for A-List Preferred). In addition, A-List Preferred Members enjoy free inflight satellite internet service on WiFi-enabled aircraft when available. Members who attain A-List or A-List Preferred status receive priority boarding privileges. When these Customers purchase travel at least 36 hours prior to flight time, they receive the best boarding position available (generally, an "A" boarding pass). During the day of travel, if an A-List or A-List Preferred Member's plans change, they have free same-day standby privileges, which allow them to fly on earlier flights between the same city pairs if space is available. Beginning January 1, 2021, A-List and A-List Preferred Members have the same standby privileges free of airline charges, but will be required to pay any additional government taxes and fees associated with changes in their itinerary. Another feature of the Rapid Rewards loyalty program is the Companion Pass. Members who fly 100 qualifying one-way flights or earn 125,000 qualifying points in a calendar year automatically receive a Companion Pass, which provides for unlimited travel for the designated Companion free of charges (other than taxes and fees). Except as noted below with respect to actions taken by the Company in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Companion Pass is valid for the remainder of the calendar year in which status was earned and for the following full calendar year to any destination available on Southwest for a designated Companion of the qualifying Member. The Member and designated Companion must travel together on the same flight.

Southwest's Rapid Rewards loyalty program has been designed to drive more revenue by (i) bringing in new Customers, including new Members, as well as new holders of Southwest's co-branded Chase Visa credit card; (ii) increasing business from existing Customers; and (iii) strengthening the Company's Rapid Rewards hotel, rental car, credit card, and other partnerships.

For 2020, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately 4.1 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 15.8 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For 2019, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately 10.7 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 14.1 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. For 2018, Customers of Southwest redeemed approximately 10.4 million flight awards, accounting for approximately 13.8 percent of revenue passenger miles flown. The Company's accounting policies with respect to its loyalty programs are discussed in more detail in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The Company took significant measures in 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to enhance its Rapid Rewards loyalty program including the following:

•Through December 15, 2020, Rapid Rewards Members who had qualified travel funds set to expire on September 7, 2022, were given the option to convert those travel funds into Rapid Rewards points at the same rate as they were able to purchase a ticket with points;
•All Rapid Rewards Members who had opened a Rapid Rewards account by April 1, 2020 received a “boost” of 15,000 tier qualifying points and 10 flight credits toward A-List and A-List Preferred status, and 25,000 Companion Pass qualifying points and 25 flight credits toward Companion Pass status;
•For A-List and A-List Preferred Members who earned tier status in 2020, earned status was extended through December 31, 2021; and
10

•For Companion Pass Members who earned Companion Pass benefits to be used through December 2020, Companion Pass benefits were extended through June 30, 2021.

Additionally, in January 2021, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company made additional changes that affected tier status as well as Companion Pass eligibility, all with the intention of enhancing the Company's Rapid Rewards loyalty program and its Members’ experiences:

•All Rapid Rewards Members with valid Rapid Rewards accounts as of December 31, 2020, received a “boost” of 15,000 tier qualifying points and 10 flight credits toward A-List and A-List Preferred status, and 25,000 Companion Pass qualifying points and 25 flight credits toward Companion Pass status;
•Through December 31, 2021, for Members with Southwest's co-branded Chase® Visa Premier or Priority Consumer credit cards, or Premier or Performance Business credit cards, for every $10,000 in spend on their credit cards, they will receive 1,500 Tier Qualifying Points, and those Tier Qualifying Points will be uncapped; and
•For Companion Pass Members who earned Companion Pass benefits to be used through December 2020, which were previously extended through June 30, 2021, those Companion Pass benefits were further extended through December 31, 2021.

Southwest.com and Direct to Customer Distribution Approach

The Company primarily offers its fare products directly to Customers through its Internet website, Southwest.com. For the years ended December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, approximately 83 percent and 80 percent, respectively, of the Company’s Passenger revenues originated from Southwest.com (including revenues from SWABIZ, the Company's online booking tool designed for business Customers who prefer a self-service and low-cost solution for booking their air travel on Southwest). This "direct to Customer" distribution approach has historically provided a cost advantage for the Company because it eliminates fees associated with the use of third party distribution channels such as third party online travel platforms. The Company augments its direct to Customer distribution approach by offering a broad suite of digital platforms to support Customers' travel needs, including full featured websites and apps. These digital platforms help Customers to book and manage their Southwest air travel and also facilitate the purchase of the Company’s ancillary products, including EarlyBird, Business Select, vacation packages, rental car reservations, hotel reservations, and travel activities. In addition, the digital platforms provide self-service tools for reservation management and Customer support.

During 2020, the Company launched multiple new digital capabilities to improve Customer self-service, including the ability to update reservation details, and also to perform partial trip cancellations. To better gauge Customers' response to their digital experiences, the Company also launched digital surveying technology, which was used frequently during the COVID-19 pandemic to monitor Customer sentiment. Mobile self-service capabilities were also enhanced during 2020, enabling Customers to find helpful support content on their mobile device without needing agent assistance, and also improving the ability to e-mail a Customer Service Agent from a mobile device. In particular, the Company added mobile self-service capabilities to (i) support mobile boarding passes for bookings of up to eight passengers, (ii) allow travel funds to be used during a booking modification, and (iii) enable Customers to view their unused funds balances in their mobile account.

The Company also continued to improve the revenue generating capabilities of the digital platforms by offering new features to promote its unique fares and upgrades, adding features to support bookings created in global distribution system platforms. The Company also brought Apple Pay® digital payments technology to its mobile website, allowing for digital Apple Pay® transactions across the web, app, and inflight portal experiences.
During the COVID pandemic, the Company swiftly developed digital tools that enabled Customers to easily convert certain unused travel funds to points with no fees or phone calls. The Company also activated digital health acknowledgements, developed targeted shopping and booking messaging about the changing travel environment, and developed custom portals to share information about travel restrictions and the Southwest Promise™.

11

Southwest Business® Initiatives

In addition to improvements in the Company's direct Southwest.com channel of distribution, during 2019 and 2020, the Company took significant action to grow its corporate travel business with the goal of making it easier for corporate travel Customers and travel management companies to do business with Southwest.

In 2019, the Company entered into an agreement with Amadeus IT Group, S.A. ("Amadeus"), and expanded its agreement with Travelport, LP and Travelport International Operations Limited (collectively, "Travelport"), to enable corporate travel Customers and travel management companies to book Southwest products on the Amadeus and Travelport global distribution system ("GDS") platforms. The Company began accepting corporate travel bookings through (i) Travelport's Apollo and Worldspan GDS platforms in second quarter 2020, (ii) Travelport's Galileo GDS platform in third quarter 2020, and (iii) the Amadeus GDS platform in fourth quarter 2020. The Company's expansion into the Travelport and Amadeus GDS channels is intended to facilitate corporate travel managers' ability to book, modify, and cancel Southwest reservations. In December 2020, the Company entered into a new full participation distribution agreement with Sabre Corporation ("Sabre"), to enable Sabre to continue to distribute Southwest content through traditional connectivity to corporations, government agencies, and travel management companies through Sabre's GDS. The new Sabre GDS connectivity is expected to be implemented in second half 2021. The Company also has an agreement with Airlines Reporting Corporation ("ARC") to implement industry-standard processes to handle the settlement of tickets booked through Travelport and Amadeus channels. Once the new Sabre GDS connectivity is implemented, Sabre tickets are also expected to settle via ARC.

Southwest Business has continued to invest in and enhance its online booking tool SWABIZ®, as well as its direct connect channel, with connections to online booking tools, travel management companies, and corporate customers. SWABIZ is designed for business Customers who prefer a self-service and low-cost solution for booking their air travel on Southwest. The site also facilitates car and hotel booking.

Marketing

During 2020, as part of the Company's reduction of operating costs in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company significantly reduced its traditional marketing areas of focus. Instead, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company implemented and marketed the "Southwest Promise" to reassure Customers of the Company's commitment to Safety and cleanliness from check-in to deplaning the aircraft. The Southwest Promise announced changes to the Company's operations and procedures to better support the well-being of its Employees and Customers, including additional stringent cleaning practices across the fleet and throughout the day, as well as measures to support physical distancing and personal protection and wellness throughout the Customer experience.

Technology Initiatives

Over the past several years, the Company has committed significant resources to technology improvements in support of its ongoing operations and initiatives. During 2020, however, in connection with the Company's efforts to reduce capital and operating expenditures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company narrowed its near-team technology focus and deferred a significant number of technology projects. The Company's key near-term technology focus areas during 2020 included, among others, (i) implementation of corporate GDS capabilities in connection with Southwest Business initiatives; (ii) support of the Company's remote workforce; (iii) enhancements to support Customer loyalty, including with respect to policy updates for Rapid Rewards program tier status and residual travel funds; and (iv) enhancements to Customer self-service capabilities on the Company's digital platforms.

While the Company deferred a significant number of technology projects in 2020, it continued to invest in and execute on major technology projects including, among others, the Company's systems related to (i) aircraft maintenance, planning, and record keeping; (ii) flight planning and scheduling, including with respect to schedule
12

changes and Customer reaccommodations; (iii) crew scheduling; (iv) human resources management; and (v) technology infrastructure.

Regulation

The airline industry is heavily regulated, especially by the federal government, and there are a significant number of governmental agencies and legislative bodies that have the ability to directly or indirectly affect the Company and/or the airline industry financially and/or operationally. Examples of regulations affecting the Company and/or the airline industry, imposed by several of these governmental agencies and legislative bodies, are discussed below.

Economic and Operational Regulation

Consumer Protection Regulation by the U.S. Department of Transportation

The DOT regulates economic operating authority for air carriers and consumer protection for airline passengers. The FAA, an agency within the DOT, regulates aviation safety. The DOT and the FAA may impose civil penalties on air carriers for violating their regulations.

To provide passenger transportation in the United States, a domestic airline is required to hold both a Certificate of Public Convenience & Necessity from the DOT and an Air Carrier Operating Certificate from the FAA. A Certificate of Public Convenience & Necessity is unlimited in duration, and the Company’s certificate generally permits it to operate among any points within the United States and its territories and possessions. Additional DOT authority, in the form of a certificate or exemption from certificate requirements, is required for a U.S. airline to serve foreign destinations either with its own aircraft or via code-sharing with another airline. Exemptions granted by the DOT to serve international markets are generally limited in duration and are subject to periodic renewal requirements. The DOT may revoke a certificate or exemption, in whole or in part, for failure to comply with federal aviation statutes, regulations, orders, or the terms of the certificate or exemption itself.

The DOT's consumer protection and enforcement authority is derived primarily from a federal statutory prohibition on "unfair or deceptive practices or unfair methods of competition" by air carriers. On December 7, 2020, the DOT published a final rule clarifying its authority in this area. The rule became effective January 6, 2021. The new rule codifies the definitions for the terms ‘‘unfair’’ and ‘‘deceptive’’ in the DOT’s regulations by adopting the definitions used by the Federal Trade Commission, and amends and clarifies the procedures the DOT would follow when engaging in aviation consumer protection rulemaking and enforcement based on its authority to prohibit unfair or deceptive practices. The new rule helps establish clear and consistent criteria for unfair or deceptive practices while aligning DOT’s oversight of aviation entities with other government agencies’ oversight of other sectors of the economy with regard to unfair or deceptive practices.

The DOT is also charged with prohibiting discrimination by airlines against consumers on the basis of (i) disability; and (ii) race, religion, national origin, sex, or ancestry.

Under the above-described authority, the DOT has also adopted so-called "Passenger Protection Rules," which address a wide variety of matters, including flight delays on the tarmac, chronically delayed flights, denied boarding compensation, baggage liability requirements, ticket refunds, and advertising of airfares, among others. For example, under the DOT's tarmac delay rule and subject to limited exceptions, air carriers must not allow an aircraft to remain on the tarmac for more than 3 hours (for domestic delays) or more than 4 hours (for international delays), without allowing passengers to deplane.

In addition, the Passenger Protection Rules require airlines to (i) display ontime performance on their websites; (ii) adopt customer service plans, publish those plans on their website, and audit their own compliance with their plans; (iii) designate an employee to monitor the performance of their flights; (iv) provide information to passengers on how to file complaints; (v) respond in a timely and substantive fashion to consumer complaints; (vi) pay up to four times the passenger's one-way fare to their final destination that day in compensation to each passenger denied
13

boarding involuntarily from an oversold flight; (vii) refund any checked bag fee for permanently lost luggage; (viii) prominently disclose all potential fees for optional ancillary services on their websites; and (ix) refund passenger fees paid for ancillary services if a flight cancels or oversells and a passenger is unable to take advantage of such services. The FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018, passed by Congress on October 3, 2018, and signed into law on October 5, 2018 (the "2018 Reauthorization Act"), directs the DOT to revise regulations to clarify there is not a maximum level of compensation an air carrier may pay to a passenger who is involuntary denied boarding as a result of an oversold flight.

The Passenger Protection Rules also require that (i) advertised fares include all government-mandated taxes and fees; (ii) passengers be allowed to either hold a reservation for up to 24 hours without making a payment or cancel a paid reservation without penalty for 24 hours after the reservation is made, as long as the reservation is made at least seven days in advance of travel; (iii) fares may not increase after purchase; (iv) baggage fees must be disclosed to the passenger at the time of booking; (v) the same baggage allowances and fees must apply throughout a passenger’s trip; (vi) baggage fees must be disclosed on e-ticket confirmations; and (vii) passengers must be promptly notified in the event of delays of more than 30 minutes or if there is a cancellation or diversion of their flight.

The DOT has expressed its intent to aggressively investigate alleged violations of its consumer protection rules. Airlines that violate certain aviation economic regulations and statutes are subject to potential fines of up to $34,174 per occurrence.

The DOT has proposed a rule that would provide for changes to the accessibility of lavatories on single-aisle aircraft for passengers with disabilities. These proposed changes include modifications to the interior of the lavatory, additional services that airlines would provide with respect to lavatory access, training requirements, and improvements to the aircraft's onboard wheelchair. The DOT is also expected to propose and seek comments on a separate rule addressing long-term accessibility changes, such as the requirement for airlines to provide one larger lavatory on single-aisle aircraft. The rulemaking would solicit comment and gather updated information on the costs and benefits of requiring airlines to make lavatories on new single-aisle aircraft large enough, equivalent to that currently found on twin-aisle aircraft, to permit a passenger with a disability (with the help of an assistant, if necessary) to approach, enter, and maneuver within the aircraft lavatory as necessary to use all lavatory facilities and leave by means of the aircraft's on-board wheelchair. Requirements to expand the size of lavatories could impose substantial costs on the Company, either in the short-term or the long-term. Whether the DOT will actually adopt a new rule requiring larger lavatories, and the timing and application of any new rule, are unknown at this time.

In December 2020, the DOT issued a new rule allowing airlines to recognize emotional support animals as pets rather than service animals. Under the new rule, airlines are still required to accept trained service dogs. Airlines can also require a new DOT standardized form wherein the animal’s handler certifies that the animal is trained to behave in the cabin and has the necessary vaccinations. The Company is in the process of modifying its policies and procedures to align with the new rule.

The 2018 Reauthorization Act includes numerous provisions related to the DOT's rules and authority. For example:

•the DOT has been given the authority to impose triple the maximum fines for damages to passengers' wheelchairs or other mobility aids, as well as for injury to passengers with disabilities;
•the DOT has been directed to implement a rulemaking to require air carriers to promptly provide a refund for any ancillary fee paid for services a passenger does not receive; and
•the 2018 Reauthorization Act makes it an unfair and deceptive practice to involuntarily deplane a revenue passenger onboard an aircraft if that passenger is traveling on a confirmed reservation and is checked-in for the relevant flight prior to the applicable check-in deadline.

With the exception of potential DOT rules relating to on-board wheelchair requirements and accessible lavatory requirements, which could affect the Company’s future capital expenditures for new aircraft, the Company does not
14

believe that pending regulatory developments in this area will have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

Aviation Taxes and Fees

The statutory authority for the federal government to collect most types of aviation taxes, which are used, in part, to finance programs administered by the FAA, must be periodically reauthorized by the U.S. Congress. The 2018 Reauthorization Act extends most commercial aviation taxes through September 30, 2023. The CARES Act signed into law in March 2020, provided a temporary tax “holiday” from collecting and remitting certain government ticket taxes for tickets purchased between March 28, 2020, and December 31, 2020.

In addition to FAA-related taxes, there are additional federal taxes related to the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. These taxes do not need to be reauthorized periodically. Congress has set the Transportation Security Fee paid by passengers at $5.60 per one-way passenger trip originating in the U.S. In addition, international passengers arriving in the U.S. are subject to U.S. immigration and customs fees that are indexed to inflation. These fees are used to support the operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protection ("CBP"). Finally, the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service imposes an agriculture inspection fee on international passengers arriving in the United States.

In 2021, Congress is expected to consider legislation related to federal spending on public infrastructure, including at airports. This legislation could result in an increase in the maximum Passenger Facility Charge, which is assessed by airports and collected by airlines, currently capped at $4.50 per enplanement (with a maximum of two Passenger Facility Charges on a one-way trip). Conversely, this legislation could also result in an infusion of federal investment in public infrastructure that may benefit all modes of transportation.

Finally, the annual congressional budget process is another legislative vehicle by which new aviation taxes or regulations may be imposed. The annual appropriations bill funds the federal government - including the DOT, the FAA, the Transportation Security Administration (the "TSA"), and CBP. Passage of the fiscal year 2022 appropriations bill will be considered throughout 2021 and could result in an increase in one or more of the taxes and fees discussed above, as well as new mandates on the DOT to begin or complete rulemakings related to airline consumer protection.

Operational, Safety, and Health Regulation

The FAA has the authority to regulate safety aspects of civil aviation operations. Specifically, the Company and certain of its third-party service providers are subject to the jurisdiction of the FAA with respect to aircraft maintenance and operations, including equipment, ground facilities, dispatch, communications, training, and other matters affecting air safety. The FAA, from time to time, issues orders or directives relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures or operational restrictions. The FAA, acting through its own powers or through the appropriate U.S. Attorney, has the power to bring proceedings for the imposition and collection of civil penalties for violation of the FAA's regulations.

The FAA requires airlines to obtain and maintain an Air Carrier Operating Certificate, as well as other certificates, approvals, and authorities. These certificates, approvals, and authorities are subject to suspension or revocation for cause.

The FAA has rules in effect with respect to flight, duty, and rest regulations. Among other things, the rules (i) require a ten hour minimum rest period prior to a pilot’s flight duty period; (ii) mandate that a pilot must have an opportunity for eight hours of uninterrupted sleep within the rest period; and (iii) impose pilot "flight time" and "duty time" limitations based upon report times, the number of scheduled flight segments, and other operational factors. The FAA has established flight attendant duty period limitations and rest requirements based on the length of a flight attendant’s scheduled duty period, number of flight attendants assigned to a flight, and other operational factors. The 2018 Reauthorization Act contains a provision requiring a modification to the FAA's rules to increase
15

the required flight attendant rest period between duty periods. The FAA has solicited input from the airline industry and other interested parties to obtain more information about current operations with flight attendants and the potential benefits and costs to inform the rulemaking. Flight, duty, and rest regulations affect the Company’s staffing flexibility, which could impact the Company’s operational performance, costs, and Customer Experience.

The 2018 Reauthorization Act also contains provisions directing the FAA to issue new regulations to establish minimum dimensions for seat size. Further, the 2018 Reauthorization Act expands human trafficking training requirements beyond flight attendants to include several public-facing Employee work groups, as well as requires air carriers to implement a plan and develop training with protocols for preventing and responding to verbal or physical assault committed against customer service agents.

In addition to its role as safety regulator, the FAA operates the nation’s air traffic control system and has continued its lengthy and ongoing effort to implement a multi-faceted, air traffic control modernization program called "NextGen." As part of the NextGen initiative, in 2010 the FAA published rules requiring most commercial aircraft operating in the national airspace system to be equipped with Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Broadcast ("ADS-B") technology by January 1, 2020. ADS-B technology is intended to enhance safety and efficiency by moving from ground-based radar and navigational aids to precise tracking using satellite signals. In addition to environmental and efficiency benefits, ADS-B technology gives pilots and air traffic controllers new tools to reduce the risk of runway incursions and aircraft collisions. The Company has implemented technology and programs intended to comply with all applicable ADS-B requirements.

The Air Traffic Organization ("ATO") is the operational arm of the FAA. The ATO is responsible for providing safe and efficient air navigation services to all of the United States and large portions of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans and the Gulf of Mexico. The Company is subject to any operational changes imposed by the FAA/ATO as they relate to the NextGen program, as well as the day-to-day management of the air traffic control system. The 2018 Reauthorization Act directs the FAA to (i) undertake a comprehensive review and prepare a full report on NextGen implementation and (ii) annually report on NextGen progress and return on investment.

The Company is subject to various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to health and occupational safety, including Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and Food and Drug Administration regulations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, federal, state, and local government authorities implemented directives, orders, and regulations intended to mitigate the spread of the virus, and in response, the Company modified its practices, policies, and procedures, as appropriate. For example, on January 12, 2021, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued an order effective January 26, 2021 requiring that all passengers (2 years of age or older) traveling by air to the United States from a foreign country (i) obtain a COVID-19 test no more than 3 days before their flight departs, and (ii) provide proof of a negative result (or documentation of having recovered from COVID-19) to the airline prior to boarding the flight. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and TSA also issued orders effective February 1, 2021, mandating the wearing of face masks on flights, subject to certain limited exceptions. Additional health requirements or standards, whether mandated by government agencies or voluntarily adopted by the Company, related to the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise intended to mitigate the spread of communicable diseases could affect the Company’s costs and performance.

For further information pertaining to the FAA’s oversight and regulatory authority, as well as health and safety regulations related to COVID-19, see “Risk Factors - Legal, Regulatory, Compliance, and Reputational Risks, and COVID-19 Risks.”

Security Regulation

Pursuant to the Aviation and Transportation Security Act ("ATSA"), the TSA, a federal agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, is responsible for certain civil aviation security matters. ATSA and subsequent TSA regulations and procedures implementing ATSA address, among other things, (i) flight deck security; (ii) the use of federal air marshals onboard flights; (iii) airport and aircraft access security; (iv) airline crew security
16

training; (v) security screening of passengers, baggage, cargo, mail, employees, and vendors; (vi) training and qualifications of security screening personnel; (vii) provision of passenger data to CBP; and (viii) background checks.

Under ATSA, substantially all security officers at airports are federal employees, and significant other elements of airline and airport security are overseen and performed by federal employees, including federal security managers, federal law enforcement officers, and federal air marshals. TSA personnel and TSA-mandated security procedures can affect the Company's operations, costs, and Customer experience. For example, as part of its security measures, the TSA regulates the types of liquid items that can be carried onboard aircraft. In addition, as part of its Secure Flight program, the TSA requires airlines to collect a passenger's full name (as it appears on a government-issued ID), date of birth, gender, and Redress Number (if applicable). Airlines must transmit this information to Secure Flight, which uses the information to perform matching against terrorist watch lists. After matching passenger information against the watch lists, Secure Flight transmits the matching results back to airlines. This serves to identify individuals for more extensive security screening and to prevent individuals on watch lists from boarding an aircraft. It also helps prevent the misidentification of passengers who have names similar to individuals on watch lists. The TSA's multi-layered approach to airport security also includes physical pat down procedures at security checkpoints. These procedures have raised privacy concerns by some air travelers, and have caused delays at screening checkpoints.

Pursuant to the 2018 Reauthorization Act, the FAA is required to issue an order requiring installation of a physical secondary cockpit barrier on "each new aircraft that is manufactured" for delivery to a passenger air carrier. A working group comprised of industry technical experts provided advice and recommendations to the FAA in 2020 on the most effective ways to implement the physical secondary cockpit barrier requirement. Depending on if and how the FAA reacts to the working group’s advice and recommendations, as well as the FAA's interpretation and application of the statutory requirement, compliance with the future FAA order could impose a substantial cost on the Company.

The Company, in conjunction with the TSA, participates in TSA PreCheck™, a pre-screening initiative that allows passengers deemed low risk by the TSA to move through security checkpoints with greater efficiency and ease when traveling. Eligible passengers may use dedicated screening lanes at certain airports the Company serves for screening benefits, which include leaving on shoes, light outerwear, and belts, as well as leaving laptops and permitted liquids in carryon bags. A similar CBP-administered program, Global Entry®, allows expedited clearance for pre-approved, low-risk international travelers upon arrival in the United States. The TSA has expressed its plans to leverage advanced transportation security screening technologies, including biometric solutions, to improve security effectiveness and operational efficiency, while also enhancing the passenger experience. The advanced technologies have prompted privacy, cost, and legal concerns from air carriers, travelers, and advocacy groups, which could affect the timing and viability of the TSA's plans.

The Company also participates in the TSA Known Crewmember® program, which is a risk-based screening system that enables TSA security officers to positively verify the identity and employment status of flight-crew members. The program expedites flight crew member access to sterile areas of airports.

The Company works collaboratively with TSA, foreign national governments, and airports to provide risk-based security measures at international locations served by the Company.

The Department of Homeland Security has granted the Company designation coverage under the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act of 2002 (the "SAFETY Act") through September 29, 2022. Designation coverage affords the Company certain limitations of liability for claims arising out of an "act of terrorism," as defined under the SAFETY Act. The designation is based on the security program used by the Company to protect its Employees, Customers, and assets from terrorists and other criminal activities.

The Company has made significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technology to process Customers, checked baggage, and cargo efficiently in compliance with applicable security regulations; however, the Company
17

is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various security measures or TSA resource limitations at certain airports will have on Passenger revenues and the Company’s costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.

Environmental Regulation

The Company is subject to various federal laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including the Clean Air Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Water Act, the Safe Drinking Water Act, and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as well as state and local laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern aircraft drinking water, emissions, storm water discharges from operations, and the disposal of materials such as jet fuel, chemicals, hazardous waste, and aircraft deicing fluid.

Additionally, in conjunction with airport authorities, other airlines, and state and local environmental regulatory agencies, the Company, as a normal course of business, undertakes voluntary investigation or remediation of soil or groundwater contamination at various airport sites. The Company has not historically experienced any airport site environmental liability that has had a material adverse effect on its capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. However, many airports, as well as federal, state and local governmental authorities, are increasingly focused on groundwater contamination caused by so-called “forever chemicals,” most notably per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”). PFAS have been used in many manufacturing and industrial applications over many decades and can be found in numerous products, including building materials and household products. Most notably for aviation, PFAS are a key component in aqueous film-forming foam (“AFFF”), which is widely used to fight petroleum-based fires at both commercial and military aviation facilities. The FAA and the U.S. Department of Defense have strict performance specifications for fire suppression systems, which has contributed to the use of AFFF/PFAS over the decades. PFAS is now the focus of regulatory oversight at airports, as well as the source of litigation by airports against AFFF manufacturers. Moreover, regulatory authorities at the federal, state, and local levels are contemplating both the prohibition of PFAS-based AFFF and costly remediation efforts at airports to address groundwater contamination. The evolving legal and regulatory activity surrounding PFAS could lead to an inadequate supply of FAA-certified AFFF throughout the aviation system and/or increased operating costs at certain airports.

The federal government, as well as several state and local governments, the governments of other countries, and the United Nations’ International Civil Aviation Organization ("ICAO") have implemented legislative and regulatory proposals and voluntary measures to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. At the federal level, in July 2016, the Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") issued a final endangerment finding for greenhouse gas emissions from certain types of aircraft engines, which the agency determined contribute to pollution that causes climate change and endangers public health and the environment. Following this endangerment finding, per the federal Clean Air Act, the EPA adopted aircraft greenhouse gas emissions standards in December 2020. These standards apply to airframe and aircraft engine manufacturers, and align with the standards previously adopted by ICAO.

In addition to aircraft emissions standards, ICAO implemented a "global market-based measure" framework in an effort to control carbon dioxide emissions from international aviation. The focal point of this framework is a carbon offsetting system applicable to aircraft operators designed to cap the growth of emissions related to international aviation emissions. ICAO's Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation ("CORSIA") program is a global market-based measure intended to cap carbon emissions from international civil aviation at their 2019 levels, enabling carbon-neutral growth for the international aviation sector by requiring that international aviation emissions above 2019 levels are offset or reduced through the use of sustainable aviation fuels. The U.S. federal government has opted to participate in the voluntary phases of the CORSIA program from 2021-2026 (additional phases extend through 2035). As part of the CORSIA program, the Company is currently monitoring its international emissions for reporting purposes. Data collected from applicable international flight activity in 2019 will form the baseline and be used in the calculations to determine subsequent carbon offsetting requirements under the CORSIA program. Regardless of the method of regulation or application of CORSIA, further policy changes
18

with regard to climate change are possible, which could significantly increase operating costs in the airline industry and, as a result, adversely affect operations.

In addition to climate change, aircraft noise continues to be an environmental focus, especially as the FAA implements new flight procedures as part of its NextGen airspace modernization program discussed above. The Airport Noise and Capacity Act of 1990 gives airport operators the right, under certain circumstances, to implement local noise abatement programs, provided they do not unreasonably interfere with interstate or foreign commerce or the national air transportation system. Some airports have established airport restrictions to limit noise, including restrictions on aircraft types to be used and limits on the number of hourly or daily operations or the time of operations. These types of restrictions can cause curtailments in service or increases in operating costs and can limit the ability of air carriers to expand operations at the affected airports.

At the federal level, the FAA has committed to inform and involve the public, engage with communities, and give meaningful consideration to community concerns and views when developing new flight procedures, and there is a possibility that Congress may enact legislation in 2021 to address local noise concerns at one or more commercial airports in the United States. In addition, the 2018 Reauthorization Act requires the FAA to consider community noise concerns when proposing a new navigation departure procedure or amending an existing navigation procedure that would direct aircraft over noise sensitive areas. This requirement could delay or otherwise impede the implementation or use of more efficient flight paths.

The Company remains steadfast in its desire to pursue, implement, and enhance initiatives that will reduce fuel consumption, which reduces carbon emissions, and improve fuel efficiency. During 2020, the Company continued its efforts to improve the efficiency of its flight planning and flight operations. In addition, over the years, the Company has undertaken a number of other fuel conservation and emissions reduction initiatives such as the following:

•introduction of the MAX aircraft into the Company's fleet, which is more fuel-efficient and releases fewer CO₂ emissions than the Company's other aircraft;
•installation of blended winglets, which reduce drag and increase fuel efficiency, on all aircraft in the Company's fleet;
•upgrading of the Company's 737-800 fleet with designed, split scimitar winglets;
•periodic engine washes;
•use of electric ground power and pre-conditioned air for aircraft at the gate, when available;
•replacement of eligible internal combustion ground support equipment with electric equipment at select locations;
•deployment of auto-throttle and vertical navigation to maintain optimum cruising speeds;
•implementation of engine start procedures to support the Company's single engine taxi procedures;
•adjustment of the timing of auxiliary power unit starts on originating flights to reduce auxiliary power unit usage;
•implementation of fuel planning initiatives to safely reduce loading of excess fuel;
•aircraft cabin interior retrofitting to reduce weight;
•reduction of aircraft engine idle speed while on the ground, which also increases engine life;
•galley refreshes with dry goods weight reduction;
•Company-optimized routes (flying the best wind routes to take advantage of tailwinds or to minimize headwinds);
•improvements in flight planning algorithms to better match the Company's aircraft flight management system and thereby enable the Company to fly at the most efficient altitudes;
•substitution of Pilot and Flight Attendant flight bags with lighter Electronic Flight Bag tablets; and
•implementation of Real Time Descent Winds (automatic uplinking of up-to-date wind data to the aircraft, allowing crews to time the descent to minimize thrust inputs).
19


The Company has also participated in Required Navigation Performance ("RNP") operations as part of the FAA's Performance Based Navigation program, a key component of the NextGen program, which is intended to modernize the U.S. air traffic control system by addressing limitations on air transportation capacity and making more efficient use of airspace. RNP combines the capabilities of advanced aircraft avionics, Global Positioning System ("GPS") satellite navigation (instead of less precise ground-based navigation), and new flight procedures to (i) enable aircraft to carry navigation capabilities, rather than relying on airports; (ii) improve operational capabilities by opening up many new and more direct airport approach paths to produce safer and more efficient flight patterns; and (iii) conserve fuel and reduce emissions. Since its first use of RNP in 2011, Southwest has conducted approximately 321,000 RNP approaches, including over 84,500 in 2020. Southwest must rely on RNP approaches published by the FAA, and the rate of introduction and utilization of RNP approaches continues to be slower than expected, with fuel efficient and emissions reducing RNP approaches currently available at only 57 of the airports Southwest serves. In addition, even at airports with approved RNP approaches, the clearance required from air traffic controllers to perform RNP approaches is often not granted. Southwest continues to work with the FAA to develop and seek more use of RNP approaches and to evolve air traffic control rules to support greater utilization of RNP.

As part of its commitment to corporate sustainability, the Company has published the Southwest One ReportTM describing the Company's sustainability strategies, which include the foregoing and other efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and address other environmental matters such as energy and water conservation, waste minimization, and recycling. Information contained in the Southwest One Report is not incorporated by reference into, and does not constitute a part of, this Form 10-K.

Government efforts at the international, federal, state, or local levels to address worldwide climate change, manage greenhouse gas emissions, and reduce aircraft noise could affect aircraft operators, original equipment manufacturers, producers and sellers of aviation fuel, and other third parties on which the Company is dependent. Additional legislative or regulatory activity in this area could require modifications to the Company’s equipment, operations, and strategy, and have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

Data Privacy and Security Regulation

Like all industries, the airline industry has experienced heightened legislative and regulatory focus on data privacy and data security in the United States and elsewhere. As a result, the Company has been monitoring a growing and fast-evolving set of legal requirements in this area that give consumers much broader access and control over their personal information.

The Company expects federal, state, and other governments to assess and implement cyber-security and data privacy protections, which could result in expanded compliance burdens, costs, and enforcement risks for the Company.

International Regulation

All international air service is subject to certain U.S. federal requirements and approvals, as well as the regulatory requirements of the appropriate authorities of the foreign countries involved. Foreign regulatory agencies located in jurisdictions served by the Company can impose requirements on various aspects of the Company’s business, including safety, marketing, ticket sales, staffing, and tax. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, certain U.S and foreign regulatory authorities have imposed health requirements for international passengers. For example, on January 12, 2021, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention issued an order effective January 26, 2021, requiring that all passengers (2 years of age or older) traveling by air to the United States from a foreign country (i) obtain a COVID-19 test no more than 3 days before their flight departs, and (ii) provide proof of a negative result (or documentation of having recovered from COVID-19) to the airline prior to boarding the flight. This order and other new or existing health requirements for international travel could adversely affect demand and the performance of the Company’s international flight offerings.
20


The Company has obtained the necessary economic authority from the DOT, as well as approvals required by the FAA and applicable foreign government entities, to conduct operations, under certain circumstances, to points outside of the continental United States currently served by the Company. Certain international authorities and approvals held by the Company are subject to periodic renewal requirements. The Company requests extensions of such authorities and approvals when and as appropriate. To the extent the Company seeks to serve additional foreign destinations in the future, or to renew its authority to serve certain routes, it may be required to obtain necessary authority from the DOT and/or approvals from the FAA, as well as any applicable foreign government entity.

Certain international markets are governed by bilateral air transportation agreements between the United States and foreign countries. Changes in U.S. or foreign government aviation policies could result in the alteration or termination of such agreements, diminish the value of the Company's existing international authorities, present barriers to renewing existing or securing new authorities, or otherwise affect the Company's international operations. There are also capacity limitations at certain international airports, which could impact future service levels. In general, bilateral agreements between the United States and foreign countries the Company currently serves, or may serve in the future, may be subject to renegotiation or reinterpretation from time to time. While the U.S. government has negotiated "open skies" agreements with many countries, which allow for unrestricted access between the United States and respective foreign destinations, agreements with other countries may restrict the Company's entry into those destinations and/or its related growth opportunities.

The CBP is the federal agency of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security charged with facilitating international trade, collecting import duties, and enforcing U.S. regulations with respect to trade, customs, and immigration. To the extent the Company expands its international flight offerings, CBP and its requirements and resources will also become increasingly important considerations to the Company. For instance, with the exception of flights from a small number of foreign "preclearance" locations, arriving international flights may only land at CBP-designated airports, and CBP officers must be present and in sufficient numbers at those airports to effectively process and inspect arriving international passengers, baggage, and cargo. Thus, CBP personnel and CBP-mandated procedures can affect the Company's operations, costs, and Customer experience. The Company has made significant investments in facilities, equipment, and technologies at certain airports in order to improve the Customer experience and to assist CBP with its inspection and processing duties; however, the Company is not able to predict the impact, if any, that various CBP measures or the lack of CBP resources will have on the Company's revenues and costs, either in the short-term or the long-term.

Insurance

The Company carries insurance of types customary in the airline industry and in amounts the Company deems adequate to protect the Company and its property and to comply both with applicable regulations and certain of the Company's credit and lease agreements. The policies principally provide coverage for public and passenger liability, property damage, cargo and baggage liability, loss or damage to aircraft, engines, and spare parts, and workers’ compensation. In addition, the Company carries a cyber-security insurance policy with regards to data protection and business interruption associated with both security breaches from malicious parties and from certain system failures. The Company also manages insured risk through the use of reinsurance programs, pooling mechanisms, and a wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary.

Although the Company has been able to purchase aviation, property, liability, and professional insurance via the commercial insurance marketplace, available commercial insurance could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the Company's risk of loss from future events, including acts of terrorism. Further, available cyber-security insurance with regards to data protection and business interruption could be more expensive in the future and/or have material differences in coverage than insurance that has historically been provided and may not be adequate to protect the Company's risk of loss. With respect to any insurance claims, policy coverages and claims are subject to
21

acceptance by the many insurers involved and may require arbitration and/or mediation to effectively settle the claims over prolonged periods of time.

Competition

Competition within the airline industry is intense and highly unpredictable, and Southwest has competed with other airlines on virtually all of its scheduled routes. In recent years, the majority of domestic airline service has been provided by Southwest and the other largest major U.S. airlines, including American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, and United Airlines. The DOT defines major U.S. airlines as those airlines with annual revenues of at least $1 billion; there are currently 13 passenger airlines offering scheduled service, including Southwest, that meet this standard.

Key competitive factors within the airline industry have historically included (i) pricing and cost structure; (ii) routes, loyalty programs, and schedules; and (iii) customer service, operational reliability, and amenities. As discussed below, the COVID-19 pandemic has significantly altered the competitive landscape amongst the airlines, as the industry has been forced to prioritize liquidity and cost control, which in turn has driven actions such as more widespread discounted fares and flexible customer policies to stimulate traffic.

Airlines, including Southwest, also compete for customers with alternatives to travel, such as videoconferencing and business communication platforms. These alternatives have become particularly prevalent as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Pricing and Cost Structure

Pricing is a significant competitive factor in the airline industry, and the availability of fare information on the Internet allows travelers to easily compare fares and identify competitor promotions and discounts. During 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company experienced an increasingly competitive fare environment, as airlines offered significantly discounted fares to attempt to address unprecedented decreases in consumer demand.

Pricing can be driven by a variety of factors. In addition to the need to stimulate traffic, as has occurred during the COVID-19 pandemic, under normal circumstances, airlines may discount fares to drive traffic in new markets and/or grow market share in existing markets.

The Company believes its low-cost operating structure has historically provided it with an advantage over many of its airline competitors by enabling it to continue to charge low fares. In addition, the Company believes its low-cost operating structure provided it with a significant financial competitive advantage relative to many of its competitors in responding to the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, as discussed below under "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," all U.S. airlines have continued to experience significant unit cost pressure as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. While it has become increasingly difficult for the Company to improve upon its industry cost position, the Company believes its Customer Service, flexible Customer and Rapid Rewards policies, and commitments such as the Southwest Promise continue to positively differentiate it from many of its competitors.

Routes, Loyalty Programs, and Schedules

The Company also competes with other airlines based on markets served, loyalty opportunities, and flight schedules. While the Company has a robust, point-to-point route network in the United States, some major airlines have more extensive route structures than Southwest, including more extensive international networks. In addition, many competitors have entered into significant commercial relationships with other airlines, such as strategic alliances, code-sharing, and capacity purchase agreements, which increase the airlines' opportunities to expand their route offerings. An alliance or code-sharing agreement enables an airline to offer flights that are operated by another airline and also allows the airline’s customers to book travel that includes segments on different airlines through a single reservation or ticket. As a result, depending on the nature of the specific alliance or code-sharing arrangement, a participating airline may be able to, among other things, (i) offer its customers access to more
22

destinations than it would be able to serve on its own, (ii) gain exposure in markets it does not otherwise serve, and (iii) increase the perceived frequency of its flights on certain routes. More extensive route structures, as well as alliance and code-sharing arrangements, not only provide additional route flexibility for participating airlines, they can also allow these airlines to offer their customers more opportunities to earn and redeem loyalty miles or points. A capacity purchase agreement enables an airline to expand its route structure by paying another airline (e.g., a regional airline with smaller aircraft) to operate flights on its behalf in markets that it does not, or cannot, serve itself. The Company continues to evaluate and implement initiatives to better enable itself to offer additional itineraries.

Customer Service, Operational Reliability, and Amenities

Southwest also competes with other airlines with respect to Customer Service, operational reliability (such as ontime performance), and passenger amenities. According to statistics published by the DOT, Southwest consistently ranks at or near the top among domestic carriers in Customer Satisfaction for having the lowest Customer complaint ratio. However, in particular in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, carriers are increasingly focusing on customer-friendly policies as opportunities to win and retain Customers. In addition, some airlines have more seating options and associated passenger amenities than Southwest, including first class, business class, and other premium seating and related amenities. New and different types of aircraft flown by competitors could have operational attributes and passenger amenities that could be considered more attractive to certain consumers than those associated with the Company's existing fleet.

Other Forms of Competition

Technology advancements have provided alternatives to air travel, such as videoconferencing, business communication platforms, and the Internet, and these alternatives have significantly increased in scope during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company is subject to the risk that the significantly increased use of these alternatives could result in permanent changes to consumer behavior and thereby negatively affect demand for air travel.

The airline industry is also subject to varying degrees of competition from other forms of transportation, including surface transportation by automobiles, buses, and trains. Inconveniences and delays associated with air travel security measures can increase surface competition. In addition, surface competition can be significant during economic downturns when consumers cut back on discretionary spending and fewer choose to fly, or when gasoline prices are lower, making surface transportation a less expensive option. Because of the relatively high percentage of short-haul travel provided by Southwest, it is particularly exposed to competition from surface transportation in these instances.

Seasonality

The Company's business is ordinarily seasonal. Generally, in most markets the Company serves, demand for air travel is greater during the summer months, and, therefore, revenues in the airline industry tend to be stronger in the second (April 1 - June 30) and third (July 1 - September 30) quarters of the year than in the first (January 1 - March 31) and fourth (October 1 - December 31) quarters of the year. As a result, in many cases, the Company's results of operations reflect this seasonality. Factors that could alter this seasonality include, among others, global pandemics such as COVID-19, the price of fuel, general economic conditions, changes in consumer behavior, governmental action, extreme or severe weather and natural disasters, fears of terrorism or war, or changes in the competitive environment. Therefore, the Company's quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year, and historical operating results in a quarterly or annual period are not necessarily indicative of future operating results.

Employees

Total Employees and Labor Union Activity

23

At December 31, 2020, the Company had approximately 56,500 active fulltime equivalent Employees, consisting of approximately 24,500 flight, 3,000 maintenance, 19,500 ground, Customer, and fleet service, and 9,500 management, technology, finance, marketing, and clerical personnel (associated with non-operational departments). Approximately 83 percent of these Employees were represented by labor unions. The Railway Labor Act establishes the right of airline employees to organize and bargain collectively. Under the Railway Labor Act, collective-bargaining agreements between an airline and a labor union generally do not expire, but instead become amendable as of an agreed date. By the amendable date, if either party wishes to modify the terms of the agreement, it must notify the other party in the manner required by the Railway Labor Act and/or described in the agreement. After receipt of the notice, the parties must meet for direct negotiations. If no agreement is reached, either party may request the National Mediation Board to appoint a federal mediator. If no agreement is reached in mediation, the National Mediation Board may determine an impasse exists and offer binding arbitration to the parties. If either party rejects binding arbitration, a 30-day "cooling off" period begins. At the end of this 30-day period, the parties may engage in "self-help," unless a Presidential Emergency Board is established to investigate and report on the dispute. The appointment of a Presidential Emergency Board maintains the "status quo" for an additional period of time. If the parties do not reach agreement during this period, the parties may then engage in "self-help." "Self-help" includes, among other things, a strike by the union or the airline’s imposition of any or all of its proposed amendments and the hiring of new employees to replace any striking workers.

The following table sets forth the Company's Employee groups subject to collective bargaining and the status of their respective collective-bargaining agreements as of December 31, 2020:

Employee Group	Approximate Number of Employees	Representatives	Status of Agreement	Southwest Pilots	8,500	Southwest Airlines Pilots' Association ("SWAPA")	In negotiations	Southwest Flight Attendants	15,400	Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 556 ("TWU 556")	In negotiations	Southwest Ramp, Operations, Provisioning, Freight Agents	13,100	Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 555 ("TWU 555")	Amendable February 2021	Southwest Customer Service Agents, Customer Representatives, and Source of Support Representatives	6,400	International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO ("IAM 142")	In negotiations	Southwest Material Specialists (formerly known as Stock Clerks)	310	International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 19 ("IBT 19")	Amendable April 2024	Southwest Mechanics	2,500	Aircraft Mechanics Fraternal Association ("AMFA")	Amendable August 2024	Southwest Aircraft Appearance Technicians	160	AMFA	In negotiations	Southwest Facilities Maintenance Technicians	40	AMFA	Amendable November 2022	Southwest Dispatchers	390	Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 550 ("TWU 550")	In negotiations	Southwest Flight Simulator Technicians	40	International Brotherhood of Teamsters ("IBT")	Amendable May 2024	Southwest Flight Crew Training Instructors	110	Transportation Workers of America, AFL-CIO, Local 557 ("TWU 557")	Amendable January 2022	Southwest Meteorologists	10	TWU 550	In negotiations 

Human Capital Resources

General

24

The Company’s approach to human capital is a critical strategy with priorities that include, among others: (i) attracting, developing, and retaining a diverse and talented workforce; (ii) providing opportunities for learning, development, career growth, and movement within the Company; (iii) evaluating compensation and benefits, and rewarding performance; (iv) investing in physical, emotional, and financial health of Employees; (v) obtaining Employee feedback; (vi) maintaining and enhancing Company culture; and (vii) communicating with the Board of Directors on a routine basis on key topics, including executive succession planning.

The Company has implemented many programs designed to achieve these priorities, including strong Employee training and benefits programs. The Company's vast Employee training and development opportunities address, among other things, leadership development, diversity and inclusion, communication skills, and human trafficking awareness. The Company rewards Employees with competitive compensation and benefits packages, including attractive medical plans, a 401(k) plan with a dollar-for-dollar match for Employees other than Pilots (subject to vesting requirements and certain compensation limits), a 401(k) plan with a non-elective contribution of 15% for Pilots, and a profit sharing plan.

The Company regularly conducts Employee surveys to assess job satisfaction of its Employees, and uses information from the surveys to improve the Company’s ability to attract, develop, and retain talented Employees who will help advance the Company. For many years, the bonus opportunity for the Company's senior leadership group, including its executive officers, has been tied to the Company's performance relative to multiple pre-established performance metrics, including, among others, the Company's voluntary turnover rate for Employees. In addition to bonus opportunities for the Company’s senior leadership group, the Company has implemented performance-based compensation programs for other non-contract employee leaders, including managers, supervisors, and team leads.

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion

Diversity, equity, and inclusion ("DEI") is also an integral part of the Company’s culture and processes that support recruitment, hiring, training, and advancement. In an effort to advance the Company's commitment to DEI, the Company recently established the following goals:

•Evolve hiring and development practices to support diversity goals, including posting all open Leadership positions (Supervisor to Vice President) and requiring diverse candidate slates for each role;
•Measure progress in increasing diversity in Senior Leadership;
•Double the percentage of racial diversity and increase gender diversity in the Company’s Senior Management Committee by 2025; and
•Engaging the Company’s breadth of community partners to leverage relationships in sourcing diverse talent.

Additionally, the Company’s Board of Directors has committed to increasing its diverse representation by 2025. The Company has a dedicated Diversity & Inclusion Department that provides regular updates to the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. To continue the Company's commitment to inclusion, the Diversity & Inclusion Department has launched a multi-year training plan to increase the cultural competency of the Company's workforce.

Effects of COVID-19

On June 1, 2020, the Company announced Voluntary Separation Program 2020, a voluntary separation program that allowed eligible Employees the opportunity to voluntarily separate from the Company in exchange for severance, medical/dental coverage for a specified period of time, and travel privileges based on years of service. In conjunction with Voluntary Separation Program 2020, the Company also offered certain contract Employees the option to take voluntary Extended Emergency Time Off ("Extended ETO"), for periods between six and 18 months, with the exception of Pilots, who could elect to take Extended ETO for periods up to five years. The Company continues to evaluate and evolve its Extended ETO program, including offering additional Extended ETO opportunities of one, two, or three month durations to certain Employees who are either not currently participating
25

in Extended ETO, or who are currently on Extended ETO set to expire in coming months. The purpose of Voluntary Separation Program 2020 and Extended ETO is to maintain a suitable sized workforce to operate at reduced capacity relative to the Company's operations prior to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Pursuant to the Payroll Support Program under the CARES Act and the Payroll Support Program Extension under the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, the Company has received funds to protect Employees’ jobs by offsetting payroll expenses. In light of the Payroll Support Program and the Payroll Support Program Extension, the Company has not implemented and does not anticipate implementing pay cuts or furloughs through 2021. For further information about the Voluntary Separation Program 2020, Extended ETO, the Payroll Support Program, and the Payroll Support Program Extension, see "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Additional Information About the Company
The Company was incorporated in Texas in 1967. The following documents are available free of charge through the Company's website, www.southwest.com: the Company’s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These materials are made available through the Company's website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. In addition to its reports filed or furnished with the SEC, the Company publicly discloses material information from time to time in its press releases, at annual meetings of Shareholders, in publicly accessible conferences and Investor presentations, and through its website (principally in its Press Room and Investor Relations pages). References to the Company's website in this Form 10-K are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website, and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.
26

DISCLOSURE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
This Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on, and include statements about, the Company’s estimates, expectations, beliefs, intentions, and strategies for the future, and the assumptions underlying these forward-looking statements. Specific forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts and include, without limitation, words such as "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "may," "will," "would," "could," "plans," "goal," and similar expressions. Although management believes these forward-looking statements are reasonable as and when made, forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially from what is expressed in or indicated by the Company's forward-looking statements or from historical experience or the Company's present expectations. Known material risk factors that could cause these differences are set forth below under "Risk Factors." Additional risks or uncertainties (i) that are not currently known to the Company, (ii) that the Company currently deems to be immaterial, or (iii) that could apply to any company, could also materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, or future results.

Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on the Company's forward-looking statements, which represent the Company's views only as of the date this Form 10-K is filed. The Company undertakes no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
