Our Company
Las Vegas Sands Corp. ("LVSC," or together with its subsidiaries "we" or the "Company") is a Fortune 500 company and the leading global developer of destination properties ("Integrated Resorts") that feature premium accommodations, world-class gaming, entertainment and retail malls, convention and exhibition facilities, celebrity chef restaurants and other amenities.
We currently own and operate Integrated Resorts in Asia and the United States. We believe our geographic diversity, best-in-class properties and convention-based business model provide us with the best platform in the hospitality and gaming industry to continue generating growth and cash flow while simultaneously pursuing new development opportunities. Our unique convention-based marketing strategy allows us to attract business travelers during the slower mid-week periods while leisure travelers occupy our properties during the weekends. Our convention, trade show and meeting facilities, combined with the on-site amenities offered at our Macao, Singapore and Las Vegas Integrated Resorts, provide flexible and expansive space for meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibitions ("MICE").
We focus on the mass market, which comprises our most profitable gaming segment. We believe the mass market segment will continue to deliver long-term growth as a result of the introduction of more high-quality gaming facilities and non-gaming amenities into our markets, particularly in Asia.
Our properties also cater to high-end players by providing them with luxury amenities and premium service levels. These amenities include luxury accommodations, restaurants, lounges, invitation-only clubs and private gaming salons. In each of the regions where we operate, the Paiza brand is associated with certain of these exclusive facilities and represents an important part of our VIP gaming marketing strategy. We also offer players club loyalty programs at our properties, which provide access to rewards, privileges and members-only events. Additionally, we believe being in the retail mall business and, specifically, owning some of the largest retail properties in Asia will provide meaningful value for us, particularly as the retail market in Asia continues to grow.
Through our 69.9% ownership of Sands China Ltd. ("SCL"), we own and operate a collection of Integrated Resorts in the Macao Special Administrative Region ("Macao") of the People's Republic of China ("China"). These properties include The Venetian Macao Resort Hotel ("The Venetian Macao"); The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, Cotai Strip (the "Four Seasons Hotel Macao"); and the Sands Macao.
In Singapore, we own and operate the iconic Marina Bay Sands, which opened in 2010 and is one of Singapore's major tourist, business and retail destinations.
Our properties in the United States include The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, a luxury resort on the Las Vegas Strip, and the Sands Expo and Convention Center (the "Sands Expo Center," and together with The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, the "Las Vegas Operating Properties") in Las Vegas, Nevada.
We are dedicated to being a good corporate citizen, anchored by the core values of serving people, planet and communities. We strive to deliver a positive working environment for our team members worldwide and pledge to promote the advancement of aspiring team members through a range of educational partnerships, grants and leadership training. We also drive social impact through the Sands Cares charitable giving and community engagement program, and environmental performance through the award-winning Sands ECO360 global sustainability program ("Sands ECO360"). Through Sands ECO360, we develop and implement environmental practices to protect natural resources, offer our team members a safe and healthy work environment, and enhance the resort experiences of our guests. In 2020, we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index and to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index, recognizing our leadership and performance across economic, environmental and social areas. In addition, CDP's annual A List names the world's leading companies in the area of environmental transparency and performance. For the third consecutive year, we have been named to the A List for both CDP Water Security and CDP Climate Change. We are committed to creating and investing in industry-leading policies and procedures to safeguard our patrons, partners, employees and neighbors. Project Protect is our
3
Table of Contents

responsible gaming, anti-human trafficking and financial crime prevention program. Our industry-leading Integrated Resorts provide substantial contributions to our host communities including growth in leisure and business tourism, sustained job creation and ongoing financial opportunities for local small and medium-sized businesses.
LVSC was incorporated in Nevada in August 2004. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the symbol "LVS." Our principal executive office is located at 3355 Las Vegas Boulevard South, Las Vegas, Nevada 89109 and our telephone number at that address is (702) 414-1000. Our website address is www.sands.com. The information on our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") filings, and any amendments to those reports and any other filings we file with or furnish to the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are made available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC and are also available at the SEC's web site address at www.sec.gov.
Investors and others should note we announce material financial information using our investor relations website (https://investor.sands.com), our company website, SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts. We use these channels to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues.
In addition, we post certain information regarding SCL, a subsidiary of LVSC with ordinary shares listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, from time to time on our company website and our investor relations website. It is possible the information we post regarding SCL could be deemed to be material information.
The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file or furnish with the SEC, and any reference to these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements. See "Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements."
Our principal operating and developmental activities occur in three geographic areas: Macao, Singapore and the United States. Management reviews the results of operations for each of its operating segments, which generally are our Integrated Resorts. In Macao, our operating segments are: The Venetian Macao; The Londoner Macao; The Parisian Macao; The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao; and Sands Macao. In Singapore, our operating segment is Marina Bay Sands. In the United States, our operating segment is the Las Vegas Operating Properties. Through May 30, 2019, the Sands Casino Resort Bethlehem (the "Sands Bethlehem") was included as an operating segment. We also have ferry operations and various other operations that are ancillary to our Macao properties (collectively, "Ferry Operations and Other") that we present to reconcile to our consolidated statements of operations and financial condition. In addition to our reportable segments noted above, management also reviews construction and development activities for each of our primary projects currently under development, which include the expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central to The Londoner Macao, the MBS Expansion Project (as later defined) and our Las Vegas condominium project (for which construction currently is suspended) in the United States.
From February 2020 through the date of this report, our operations were significantly impacted by a global pandemic (the “COVID-19 Pandemic”). While the details of this impact have been disclosed throughout this document, the following discussion of our business focuses on execution of our business strategies in a non-pandemic environment based on the assumption the global impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic will eventually diminish and our operations will recover as travel and tourism improves in our markets.
Strengths and Strategies
We believe we have a number of strengths that differentiate our business from our competitors, including:
Substantial and diversified cash flow from existing operations. Our Integrated Resorts in Macao, Singapore and the U.S. have contributed 55%, 35% and 10% of our total adjusted property EBITDA, respectively, during the
4
Table of Contents

previous five years. In each of these jurisdictions, our cash flow from operations was derived from a combination of gaming and non-gaming sources, including retail malls, hotel, food and beverage, entertainment and MICE.
Diversified, high quality Integrated Resort offerings with substantial non-gaming amenities. Our Integrated Resorts feature non-gaming attractions and amenities including world-class entertainment, expansive retail offerings and market-leading MICE facilities. These attractions and amenities enhance the appeal of our Integrated Resorts, contributing to visitation, length of stay and customer spending at our resorts. The broad appeal of our market-leading Integrated Resort offerings in our various markets enables us to serve the widest array of customer segments in each market.
Market leadership in the growing high-margin mass market gaming segment. In our gaming business, we focus on the high-margin mass gaming segment. Our combined SCL properties had the highest percentage of gaming win from mass tables and slots of the Macao operators, with an average market share of approximately 30% during the previous five years. Management estimated our mass market table revenues typically generate a gross margin approximately four times higher than the gross margin on our VIP table revenues in Macao. Additionally, gross gaming revenue from mass tables and slots has contributed to approximately two-thirds of total gross gaming revenue at Marina Bay Sands during the previous five years.
Established brands with broad regional and international market awareness and appeal. The opening of The Venetian Macao provided the foundation and cornerstone for the Cotai Strip and marked a step-change for the Macao gaming market more broadly. Through a combination of its range and scale of facilities and its distinctive theming, The Venetian Macao has remained the foremost example of a themed Integrated Resort in Macao. Recognition has also been garnered by The Parisian Macao, our property with its iconic replica of the Eiffel Tower and other themed attractions. Both of these European-themed Integrated Resorts attract broad brand awareness both regionally and globally, which we expect will continue with the opening of The Londoner Macao over the course of 2021. Marina Bay Sands is an iconic part of the Singapore skyline and is often featured prominently in filmed entertainment and other media.
Experienced management team with a proven track record. Mr. Sheldon G. Adelson was our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Adelson created the MICE-based Integrated Resort and pioneered its development in the Las Vegas and Singapore markets, as well as in Macao, where he planned and developed the Cotai Strip. Mr. Robert G. Goldstein, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, has been an integral part of the Company's executive team from the beginning, joining Mr. Adelson before The Venetian Resort Las Vegas was constructed. Mr. Goldstein is one of the most respected and experienced executives in our industry today. Mr. Patrick Dumont, our President and Chief Operating Officer, has been with the Company for more than ten years, including the last five as our Executive Vice-president and Chief Financial Officer, and has prior experience in corporate finance and management. Our management team is focused on delivering growth, increasing our return on invested capital, balance sheet strength, preserving the Company’s financial flexibility to pursue development opportunities and continuing to execute return of capital to stockholders.
Unique MICE and entertainment facilities. Our market-leading MICE and entertainment facilities contribute to our markets’ diversification and appeal to business and leisure travelers while diversifying our cash flows and increasing revenues and profit. Our approximately 5.2 million square feet of global MICE space is designed to meet the needs of meeting planners and corporate events and trade show organizers from around the world. Our experience and expertise in this industry supports our ability to drive leisure and business tourism to our markets. The live entertainment program at our properties, specifically in Asia, has been a key traffic driver and has established us as a leader in the field of tourism and leisure activities.
Building on our key strengths, we seek to enhance our position as the leading developer and operator of Integrated Resorts and casinos by continuing to implement the following business strategies:
Developing and diversifying our Integrated Resort offerings to include a full complement of products and services to cater to different market segments. Our Integrated Resorts include MICE space, retail, dining and entertainment facilities and a range of hotel offerings, including branded suites and hotel rooms, to cater to different segments of our markets. We are able to leverage the recognition and the sales, marketing and reservation capabilities of premier hotel brands to attract a wide range of customers in different market segments to our properties. We believe our partnerships with renowned hotel management partners, our diverse Integrated Resort
5
Table of Contents

offerings and the convenience and accessibility of our properties will continue to increase the appeal of our properties to both the business and leisure customer segments.
Leveraging our scale of operations to create and maintain an absolute cost advantage. Management expects to benefit from lower unit costs due to the economies of scale inherent in our operations. Opportunities for lower unit costs include, but are not limited to: lower utility costs; more efficient staffing of hotel and gaming operations; and centralized transportation, marketing and sales, and procurement. In addition, our scale allows us to consolidate certain administrative functions.
Focusing on the high-margin mass market gaming segment, while continuing to provide luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. The scale and product mix of our Integrated Resort properties allow us to participate very effectively in all segments of the market. We believe the mass market segment will continue to exhibit long-term growth as a result of the introduction of more high-quality gaming facilities and non-gaming amenities into our various markets, accompanied by supportive long-term trends in business and leisure tourism. Our properties are positioned to harness future growth in the mass market that comprise our most profitable gaming segment, while delivering the immersive destination resort experiences that create loyalty with VIP and premium players.
Identifying targeted investment opportunities to drive growth across our portfolio. We will continue to invest in the expansion of our facilities and the enhancement of the leisure and business tourism appeal of our property portfolio. Our planned development projects include the renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central into The Londoner Macao, the addition of suites at the Londoner Court and the expansion of Marina Bay Sands.
Our Operations
Macao
The Venetian Macao is the anchor property of our Cotai Strip development and is located approximately two miles from the Taipa Ferry Terminal on Macao's Taipa Island and six miles from the bridge linking Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai. The Venetian Macao includes approximately 374,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 620 table games and 920 slot machines and electronic table games ("ETGs"). The Venetian Macao features a 39-floor luxury hotel tower with over 2,900 elegantly appointed luxury suites and the Shoppes at Venetian, approximately 943,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with more than 340 stores featuring many international brands and home to 60 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. In addition, The Venetian Macao has approximately 1.2 million square feet of convention facilities and meeting room space, an 1,800-seat theater, the 15,000-seat Cotai Arena that hosts world-class entertainment and sporting events and a Paiza Club.
The Londoner Macao (previously Sands Cotai Central), our largest Integrated Resort on the Cotai Strip, is located across the street from The Venetian Macao, The Parisian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao. The Londoner Macao is the result of our previously announced renovation, expansion and rebranding of Sands Cotai Central, which included the addition of extensive thematic elements both externally and internally. This project is being delivered in phases, which started in 2020 and will continue through 2021. Upon completion, The Londoner Macao will include some of London’s most recognizable landmarks, such as the Houses of Parliament and The Elizabeth Tower (commonly known as "Big Ben"). Our retail offerings will be expanded and rebranded as the Shoppes at Londoner. The resort will also feature the Londoner Court with approximately 370 luxury suites; construction of the Londoner Court is now complete and we expect it to open later in 2021. The Integrated Resort opened in phases beginning in April 2012 and features four hotel towers. The first hotel tower includes (i) approximately 650 five-star rooms and suites under the Conrad brand and (ii) The Londoner Macao Hotel, which opened in January 2021, with 600 London-themed suites, including 14 exclusive Suites by David Beckham. The second hotel tower consists of approximately 1,800 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand. The third hotel tower consists of approximately 2,100 rooms and suites under the Sheraton brand. The fourth hotel tower consists of approximately 400 rooms and suites under the St. Regis brand. The Integrated Resort includes approximately 351,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 470 table games and 700 slot machines and ETGs, approximately 369,000 square feet of meeting space, a 1,701-seat theater, approximately 525,000 square feet
6
Table of Contents

of retail space with more than 130 stores and home to more than 40 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines.
On September 13, 2016, we opened The Parisian Macao, which is connected to The Venetian Macao and The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, and includes approximately 248,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 270 table games and 850 slot machines and ETGs. The Parisian Macao also features approximately 2,500 rooms and suites and the Shoppes at Parisian, approximately 296,000 square feet of unique retail shopping with more than 130 stores featuring many international brands and home to 24 restaurants and food outlets featuring an international assortment of cuisines. Other non-gaming amenities at The Parisian Macao include a meeting room complex of approximately 63,000 square feet and a 1,200-seat theater. Directly in front of The Parisian Macao, and connected via a covered walkway to the main building, is a half-scale authentic re-creation of the Eiffel Tower containing a viewing platform and restaurant.
The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, which is located adjacent to The Venetian Macao, has approximately 127,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 140 table games and 20 slot machines and ETGs at its Plaza Casino. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao also has 360 elegantly appointed rooms and suites managed by FS Macau Lda., several food and beverage offerings, and conference and banquet facilities. The Shoppes at Four Seasons includes approximately 244,000 square feet of retail space and is connected to the Shoppes at Venetian. The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao also features 19 ultra-exclusive Paiza Mansions, which are individually designed and made available by invitation only. The Grand Suites at Four Seasons opened in October 2020 and features 289 luxury suites. We initiated VIP gaming operations in this space in the first quarter of 2020.
The Sands Macao, the first U.S. operated Las Vegas-style casino in Macao, is situated near the Macao-Hong Kong Ferry Terminal on a waterfront parcel centrally located between Macao's Gongbei border gate with China and Macao's central business district. The Sands Macao includes approximately 212,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 150 table games and 530 slot machines and ETGs. The Sands Macao also includes a 289-suite hotel tower, spa facilities, several restaurants and entertainment areas, and a Paiza Club.
We operate the gaming areas within our Macao properties pursuant to a 20-year gaming subconcession that expires in June 2022. See "Regulation and Licensing — Macao Concession and Our Subconcession."
Singapore
Marina Bay Sands features approximately 2,600 rooms and suites located in three 55-story hotel towers. Atop the three towers is the Sands SkyPark, an extensive outdoor recreation area with a 150-meter infinity swimming pool and leading restaurant and nightlife brands. The Integrated Resort offers approximately 160,000 square feet of gaming space with approximately 600 table games and 2,050 slot machines and ETGs; The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands, an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex with signature restaurants from world-renowned chefs; an event plaza and promenade; and an art/science museum. Marina Bay Sands also includes approximately 1.2 million square feet of meeting and convention space and a state-of-the-art theater for top Broadway shows, concerts and gala events.
We operate the gaming area within our Singapore property pursuant to a 30-year casino concession provided under a development agreement entered into in August 2006. See "Regulation and Licensing — Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board."
In April 2019, our wholly owned subsidiary, Marina Bay Sands Pte. Ltd. ("MBS") entered into an additional development agreement (the “Second Development Agreement”) with the Singapore Tourism Board (the "STB") pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a development, which will include a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats (the “MBS Expansion Project”). The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately 4.5 billion Singapore dollars ("SGD," approximately $3.4 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020). We amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to provide for the financing of the development and construction costs, fees and other expenses related to the MBS Expansion Project pursuant to the Second Development Agreement. On June 18, 2020, we further amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to, among other things, extend to June 30, 2021, the deadline for delivering the construction costs estimate and the construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project.
7
Table of Contents

Las Vegas
Our Las Vegas Operating Properties is an Integrated Resort that includes The Venetian Resort Las Vegas and the Sands Expo Center.
The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features three hotel towers. The Venetian Tower is a 35-story three-winged luxury hotel tower with 3,015 suites. The second tower is an adjoining 1,013-suite, 12-story Venezia Tower. The Palazzo Tower has 3,064 suites situated in a 50-story luxury hotel tower, which features modern European ambience and design, and is directly connected to The Venetian Tower and Sands Expo Center. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas has approximately 225,000 square feet of gaming space and includes approximately 210 table games and 1,480 slot machines and ETGs. The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features a variety of amenities for its guests, including a Paiza Club, several theaters and Canyon Ranch SpaClub.
The Venetian Resort Las Vegas features an enclosed retail, dining and entertainment complex, referred to as the Grand Canal Shoppes. The portion of the complex located within The Venetian Tower (previously known as "The Grand Canal Shoppes") and the portion located within The Palazzo Tower (previously known as "The Shoppes at The Palazzo") were sold to GGP Limited Partnership ("GGP") in 2004 and 2008, respectively.
Sands Expo Center is one of the largest overall trade show and convention facilities in the United States (as measured by net leasable square footage), with approximately 1.2 million gross square feet of exhibit and meeting space. We also own an approximately 1.1 million-gross-square-foot meeting and conference facility that links Sands Expo Center to The Venetian Resort Las Vegas. Together, we offer approximately 2.3 million gross square feet of state-of-the-art exhibition and meeting facilities that can be configured to provide small, mid-size or large meeting rooms and/or accommodate large-scale multi-media events or trade shows.
We are working with Madison Square Garden Company ("MSG") to bring a 400,000-square-foot venue built specifically for music and entertainment to Las Vegas. MSG is currently building the MSG Sphere at The Venetian, an 18,000-seat venue, which will be located near, with connectivity to, the Las Vegas Operating Properties and is currently expected to open in 2023.
Our Markets
Macao
Macao is the largest gaming market in the world and the only market in China to offer legalized casino gaming. According to Macao government statistics issued publicly on a monthly basis by the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (commonly referred to as the "DICJ"), annual gross gaming revenues were 60.44 billion patacas in 2020 (approximately $7.57 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020), a 79.3% decrease compared to 2019 due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic.
We welcomed approximately 6 million visitors to Macao in 2020, compared to the approximately 39 million visitors in 2019. We believe visitation will return to pre-pandemic levels and will continue to experience meaningful long-term growth. We believe this growth will be driven by a variety of factors, including the movement of Chinese citizens to urban centers in China, continued growth of the Chinese outbound tourism market, the increased utilization of existing transportation infrastructure, the introduction of new transportation infrastructure and the continued increase in hotel room inventory in Macao and neighboring Hengqin Island. There has been significant investment announced and recently completed by concessionaires and subconcessionaires in new resort development projects on Cotai. These new resorts should help increase the critical mass on Cotai and further drive Macao's transformation into a leading business and leisure tourism hub in Asia.
Table games are the dominant form of gaming in Asia, with Baccarat being the most popular game. We continue to experience Macao market-leading visitation and are focused on driving high-margin mass market gaming, while providing luxury amenities and high service levels to our VIP and premium players. We intend to continue to introduce more modern and popular products that appeal to the Asian marketplace and believe our high-quality gaming product has enabled us to capture a meaningful share of the overall Macao gaming market across all types of players.
8
Table of Contents

Proximity to Major Asian Cities
Visitors from Hong Kong, southeast China, Taiwan and other locations in Asia can reach Macao in a relatively short time, using a variety of transportation methods, and visitors from more distant locations in Asia can take advantage of short travel times by air to Zhuhai, Shenzhen, Guangzhou or Hong Kong (followed by a road, ferry or helicopter trip to Macao). In addition, numerous air carriers fly directly into Macao International Airport from many major cities in Asia.
Macao draws a significant number of customers who are visitors or residents of Hong Kong. One of the major methods of transportation to Macao from Hong Kong is the jetfoil ferry service, including our ferry service, Cotai Water Jet. The Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge (the "HZMB") which connects Hong Kong, Macao and Zhuhai has reduced the travel time between Hong Kong and Macao from one hour by ferry to approximately 45 minutes on the road. The HZMB is part of the Greater Bay Area Initiatives and plays a key role in connecting the cities in the Greater Bay Area, facilitating the visitation to Macao. Macao is also accessible from Hong Kong by helicopter.
Competition in Macao
Gaming in Macao is administered by the government through concessions awarded to three different concessionaires and three subconcessionaires, of which we are one. No additional concessions have been granted by the Macao government since 2002; however, if the Macao government were to allow additional gaming operators in Macao through the grant of additional concessions or subconcessions, we would face additional competition. The concessionaires are Sociedade de Jogos de Macau S.A., Wynn Resorts (Macau), S.A. and Galaxy Casino Company Limited ("Galaxy"), with MGM Grand Paradise, S.A., Melco PBL Jogos (Macau), S.A. and our Company operating under subconcessions.
Our Macao operations also face competition from other gaming and resort destinations, both in Asia and globally.
Singapore
Singapore is regarded as having the most developed financial and transportation infrastructure in the Southeast Asia region. Singapore has established itself as a destination for both business and leisure visitors, offering convention and exhibition facilities as well as world-class shopping malls and hotel accommodations. In 2006, after a competitive bid process, the Singapore government awarded two concessions to develop and operate two integrated resorts. We were awarded the concession for the Marina Bay site, which is adjacent to Singapore's central business district, and Genting International was awarded the second site, located on Singapore's Sentosa Island.
Based on figures released by the STB, Singapore welcomed approximately 4 million international visitors in the twelve months ended November 30, 2020 (the latest information publicly available at the time of filing), a 76.6% decrease compared to the same period in 2019 due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. Tourism receipts are estimated to have reached SGD 27.7 billion (approximately $20.9 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020) in 2019 (the latest information publicly available at the time of filing). The Casino Regulatory Authority (the "CRA"), the gaming regulator in Singapore, does not disclose gaming revenue for the market and thus no official figure exists.
We believe Marina Bay Sands is ideally positioned within Singapore to cater to both business and leisure visitors. The Integrated Resort is centrally located within a 20-minute drive from Singapore's Changi International Airport and near the Marina Bay Cruise Center, a deep-water cruise ship terminal, and Bayfront station, a mass rapid transit station. Marina Bay Sands is also located near several entertainment attractions, including the Gardens by the Bay botanical gardens and the Singapore Sports Hub, a sports complex featuring the 55,000-seat National Stadium.
Baccarat is the preferred table game in both VIP and mass gaming. Additionally, contributions from slot machines and from mass gaming, including ETG offerings, have enhanced the growth of the market. As Marina Bay Sands and the Singapore market as a whole continue to mature, we expect to broaden our visitor base to continue to capture visitors from around the world.
Proximity to Major Asian Cities
Approximately 100 airlines operate in Singapore, connecting it to some 400 cities in approximately 100 countries. In the twelve months ended November 30, 2020 (the latest information publicly available at the time of
9
Table of Contents

filing), 18 million passengers passed through Singapore's Changi Airport, a 73.8% decrease as compared to the same period in 2019 due to the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic. In 2019, Changi Jewel, a multi-use retail, hotel and food and beverage destination, opened at Changi Airport, and work is currently underway to expand the number of runways and open a fifth terminal, which would increase passenger capacity. Based on figures released by the STB, the largest source markets for visitors to Singapore in 2020 were China and Indonesia. The STB's methodology for reporting visitor arrivals does not recognize Malaysian citizens entering Singapore by land, although this method of visitation is generally thought to be substantial.
Competition in Singapore
Gaming in Singapore is administered by the government through the award of licenses to two operators, our Company and Resorts World Sentosa, which is 100% owned by Genting Singapore PLC. The CRA is required to ensure there will not be more than two casino licenses until January 1, 2031.
Our Singapore operations also face competition from other gaming and resort destinations, both in Asia and globally.
Las Vegas
Based on figures released by the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority (the "LVCVA"), Las Vegas welcomed 21 million visitors during the twelve months ended November 30, 2020 (the latest information publicly available at the time of filing).
The Las Vegas hotel/casino industry is highly competitive. Hotels on the Las Vegas Strip compete with other hotels on and off the Las Vegas Strip, including hotels in downtown Las Vegas. In addition, there are large projects in Las Vegas in the development stage or currently suspended and, when opened, may target the same customers as we do. Major competitors in Las Vegas continue to implement and evaluate opportunities to expand casino, hotel and convention offerings.
We also compete with legalized gaming from casinos located on Native American tribal lands, including those located in California and, to some extent, with other hotel/casino facilities in Nevada, with hotel/casino and other resort facilities elsewhere in the country and the world, and with Internet gaming and state lotteries. In addition, certain states have legalized, and others may legalize, casino gaming in specific areas.
Las Vegas generally competes with trade show and convention facilities located in and around major U.S. cities. Within Las Vegas, the Sands Expo Center competes with the Las Vegas Convention Center (the "LVCC"), which currently has approximately 4.6 million gross square feet of convention and exhibit facilities. In addition to the LVCC, some of our Las Vegas competitors have convention and conference facilities that compete with our Las Vegas Operating Properties. Based on figures released by the LVCVA, over 2 million convention delegates visited Las Vegas during the twelve months ended November 30, 2020 (the latest information publicly available at the time of filing) and over 6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019.
Retail Mall Operations
We own and operate retail malls at our Integrated Resorts at The Venetian Macao, The Londoner Macao, The Parisian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, Sands Macao and Marina Bay Sands. Upon completion of all phases of The Londoner Macao, we will own approximately 2.7 million square feet of gross retail space. Management believes being in the retail mall business and, specifically, owning some of the largest retail properties in Asia will provide meaningful value for us, particularly as the retail market in Asia continues to grow. As further described in "Part II — Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Mall Activities," the Grand Canal Shoppes were sold to GGP (now owned by Brookfield Property Partners L.P., "Brookfield") and are not owned or operated by us.
Our malls are designed to complement our other unique amenities and service offerings provided by our Integrated Resorts. Our strategy is to seek out desirable tenants that appeal to our customers and provide a wide variety of shopping options. We generate our mall revenue primarily from leases with tenants through base minimum rents, overage rents and reimbursements for common area maintenance ("CAM") and other expenditures. For further information related to the financial performance of our malls, see "Part II — Item 7 — Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."
10
Table of Contents

The tables below set forth certain information regarding our mall operations on the Cotai Strip and at Marina Bay Sands as of December 31, 2020. These tables do not reflect subsequent activity in 2021.
																	
Mall Name		
Total GLA(1)
		Selected Significant Tenants
					
Shoppes at Venetian			
812,936(2)
		Zara, Victoria's Secret, Uniqlo, Tiffany & Co., Rolex, H&M, Michael Kors, Bvlgari, Polo Ralph Lauren, Lululemon, FURLA, Foot Locker
Shoppes at Londoner			
525,206(3)
		Marks & Spencer, Kid's Cavern, Zara, Omega, Nike, Chow Tai Fook, Apple, Bottega Veneta
Shoppes at Parisian			295,963		Alexander McQueen, Zadig & Voltaire, Versace Jeans Couture, Antonia, Arc'teryx, Champion
Shoppes at Four Seasons			244,104		Cartier, Chanel, Louis Vuitton, Hermès, Gucci, Dior, Versace, Zegna, Loro Piana, Saint Laurent, Balenciaga, Loewe, Roger Vivier
The Shoppes at Marina Bay Sands			
620,330(4)
		Louis Vuitton, Zara, Chanel, Gucci, Dior, Burberry, Prada, Fendi, Moncler, Hermès, Cartier, Apple
____________________
(1)Represents Gross Leasable Area in square feet.
(2)Excludes approximately 130,000 square feet of space on the fifth floor currently not on the market for lease.
(3)The Shoppes at Londoner will feature up to an estimated 600,000 square feet of gross leasable area upon completion of all phases of the renovation, rebranding and expansion to The Londoner Macao.
(4)Excludes approximately 230,000 square feet of space operated by the Company.
The following table reflects our tenant representation by category for our mall operations as of December 31, 2020:
																				
Category		Square Feet		% of
Square Feet		Representative Tenants
Fashion (luxury, women's, men's, mixed)		801,366 			37 	%		
Louis Vuitton, Dior, Gucci, Versace, Chanel, Hermès, Balenciaga, Loewe, Saint Laurent, Burberry, Prada, Moncler
Restaurants and lounges		386,149 			18 	%		Lei Garden, Cé La Vi, North, Blossom
Multi-Brands		251,147 			11 	%		Duty Free Americas, The Atrium
Fashion accessories and footwear		150,210 			7 	%		Coach, Rimowa, Michael Kors, FURLA, Oakley & Spectacle Hut, Charles & Keith
Lifestyle, sports and entertainment		200,032 			9 	%		Manchester United, Adidas, Lululemon, Under Armour, Nike, Foot Locker
Jewelry		159,392 			7 	%		Bvlgari, Omega, Cartier, Rolex, Tiffany & Co., Chaumet
Health and beauty		82,008 			4 	%		Sephora, Sa Sa, Chanel, Helena Rubinstein, SkinCeuticals
Banks and services		52,267 			2 	%		Bank of China, ICBC
Home furnishing and electronics		71,228 			3 	%		Apple, Samsung, Zara Home
Specialty foods		28,884 			1 	%		Godiva, Haagen Dazs, Jason's Deli
Arts and gifts		12,278 			1 	%		Emporio di Gondola
Total		2,194,961 			100 	%		
11
Table of Contents

Human Capital
Talent Management
We directly employ approximately 46,000 employees worldwide, including approximately 44,500 full-time employees, and hire additional temporary employees on an as-needed basis. Of our full-time employees, approximately 50% are female.
Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and motivate skilled managers and employees at our properties. Our strategy is to be the employer of choice by ensuring a thriving workforce built on integrity and opportunity and to support our employees’ personal, professional and financial well-being. We strive to enhance our culture by creating a safe environment that consists of an inclusive and diverse workforce where all employees are treated fairly and equally and can excel in the performance of their duties. Some examples of key programs and initiatives we have implemented to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include:
•Competitive pay;
•Healthcare: medical/prescription, dental, vision, short-term disability, life and accidental death and disability insurance options at no premium cost; group healthcare insurance; and other support for both physical and mental health, such as a free Employee Assistance Program for employees and their household at SCL, or the MyWellness Connection program in Las Vegas, which provides information regarding nutrition, disease management, stress reduction and injury prevention;
•Retirement benefits: all eligible employees are able to participate in retirement planning schemes, which may include contributions from the employer, as well as the employee;
•Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Program: through well-established policies, procedures, hiring practices and support systems, we promote diversity, equity and inclusion and integrate these values into our company;
•Subsidized child care programs for employees, including access to onsite centers in Las Vegas;
•On-site provision of meals for employees;
•Training and development: through Sands Academy, our global training and development platform, we provide courses, learning tools, coaching opportunities and one-on-one consulting to help employees fulfill their potential, as well as provide tuition reimbursement; and
•Coverage of all COVID-19 Pandemic testing and treatment under all of the Company’s medical plans at no cost to the employees and their dependents.
Our employees are not covered by collective bargaining agreements, except as discussed below with respect to certain Sands Expo Center employees. We believe we have good relations with our employees and any relevant union.
Certain unions have engaged in confrontational and obstructive tactics at some of our properties, including contacting potential customers, tenants and investors, objecting to various administrative approvals and informational picketing, and may continue these tactics in the future. Although we believe we will be able to operate despite such tactics, no assurance can be given we will be able to do so or the failure to do so would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although no assurances can be given, if employees decide to be represented by labor unions, management does not believe such representation would have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
Certain culinary personnel are hired from time to time to provide services for trade shows and conventions at Sands Expo Center and are covered under a collective bargaining agreement between Sands Expo Center and the Local Joint Executive Board of Las Vegas, for and on behalf of Culinary Workers Union, Local 226 and Bartenders Union, Local No. 165. This collective bargaining agreement expired in December 2000, but automatically renews on an annual basis. As a result, Sands Expo Center is operating under the terms of the expired bargaining agreement with respect to these employees.
12
Table of Contents

Health and Safety
During 2020, we focused significant attention on the effective handling of the COVID-19 Pandemic. We implemented new protocols and processes designed to limit the spread of the virus. These include the use of hand sanitizers and face masks, new cleaning and disinfecting regimes, testing and tracing and the implementation of social distancing measures in restaurants, bars, gaming, recreation and back of the house areas. We have made physical changes to our properties, such as the installation of thermal screening points at entrances and changes to our heating, ventilation and air conditioning (“HVAC”) systems. The latter included the installation of “hospital grade” filters and the use of more fresh air from outside to prevent the recirculation of virus particles and other pathogens. In the midst of the COVID-19 Pandemic-related challenges, we have supported our employees by forgoing furloughs and layoffs and maintaining steady paychecks and health benefits.
Commitment to Environmental Sustainability
We focus significant attention on minimizing our environmental impact with the goal of reducing the environmental footprint of our existing properties and offsetting the impact of new developments. Through Sands ECO360, we endeavor to adapt to emerging trends, support new technologies and foster environmental stewardship in the areas of green buildings, environmentally responsible operations and green meetings and events. The program is aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and other key environmental standards in the areas of energy, water, waste, procurement, food and transportation.
Our Environmental, Social and Governance Report is available on our website and contains further information on our environmental sustainability performance, including data indices that reflect the reporting requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. The contents of the Report and our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file or furnish with the SEC, and any reference to the Report and our website are intended to be inactive textual references only.
In addition to our internal initiatives, we have developed the Drop by Drop Project, a collaborative water stewardship initiative in conjunction with Clean the World Foundation. The Drop by Drop Project is designed to encourage sustainability in our local regions and reinvests capital from our water stewardship efforts into innovative water projects in Las Vegas, Macao and Singapore.
We were the only U.S.-based casino and gaming company to be named on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index 2020 and North America Index 2020. We were one of only 16 companies in North America to be included on the A List for both CDP Climate Change and Water Security in 2020.
Development Projects
We regularly evaluate opportunities to improve our product offerings, such as refreshing our meeting and convention facilities, suites and rooms, retail malls, restaurant and nightlife mix and our gaming areas, as well as other revenue generating additions to our Integrated Resorts.
Macao
Construction work on the conversion of Sands Cotai Central into the new destination Integrated Resort, The Londoner Macao, is progressing. This project is being delivered in phases, which started in 2020 and will continue throughout 2021. Upon completion, The Londoner Macao will feature new attractions and features internally and externally from London, including some of London’s most recognizable landmarks, such as the Houses of Parliament and The Elizabeth Tower (commonly known as "Big Ben"). The Londoner Macao Hotel opened in January 2021 with approximately 600 London-themed suites, including 14 exclusive Suites by David Beckham. The resort will also feature the Londoner Court with approximately 370 luxury suites; construction of the Londoner Court is now complete and we expect it to open in 2021. Our retail offerings will be expanded and rebranded as the Shoppes at Londoner.
We anticipate the total costs associated with The Londoner Macao development project described above and the recently completed The Grand Suites at Four Seasons to be approximately $2.2 billion. The ultimate costs and completion dates for The Londoner Macao development is subject to change as we complete the project. See "Item
13
Table of Contents

1A — Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business — There are significant risks associated with our construction projects."
Singapore
In April 2019, MBS entered into the Second Development Agreement with the STB pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a development, which will include a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats. The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately SGD 4.5 billion (approximately $3.4 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020), which investment must be completed within eight years from the effective date of the agreement. The amount of the total project cost will be finalized as we complete design and development and begin construction. We amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to provide for the financing of the development and construction costs, fees and other expenses related to the MBS Expansion Project pursuant to the Second Development Agreement. On June 18, 2020, we further amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility, which among other things, extends to June 30, 2021, the deadline for delivering the construction costs estimate and the construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project.
United States
We began constructing a high-rise residential condominium tower (the "Las Vegas Condo Tower"), located on the Las Vegas Strip within The Venetian Resort Las Vegas. In 2008, we suspended construction activities for the project due to reduced demand for Las Vegas Strip condominiums and the overall decline in general economic conditions. We continue to evaluate the highest return opportunity for the project. The impact of the suspension on the estimated overall cost of the project is currently not determinable with certainty. Should management decide to abandon the project, we could record a charge for some portion of the $130 million in capitalized construction costs (net of depreciation) as of December 31, 2020.
Other
We continue to evaluate additional development projects in each of our markets and pursue new development opportunities globally.
Regulation and Licensing
Macao Concession and Our Subconcession
In June 2002, the Macao government granted one of three concessions to operate casinos in Macao to Galaxy. During December 2002, we entered into a subconcession agreement with Galaxy, which was approved by the Macao government. The subconcession agreement allows us to develop and operate certain casino projects in Macao, including Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, The Londoner Macao and The Parisian Macao, separately from Galaxy. Under the subconcession agreement, we are obligated to operate casino games of chance or games of other forms in Macao.
If the Galaxy concession is terminated for any reason, our subconcession will remain in effect. The subconcession may be terminated by agreement between Galaxy and us. Galaxy is not entitled to terminate the subconcession unilaterally; however, the Macao government, after consultation with Galaxy, may terminate the subconcession under certain circumstances. Galaxy has developed, and may continue to develop, hotel and casino projects separately from us.
We are subject to licensing and control under applicable Macao law and are required to be licensed by the Macao gaming authorities to operate a casino. We must pay periodic and regular fees and taxes, and our gaming license is not transferable. We must periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Macao gaming authorities and furnish any other information the Macao gaming authorities may require. No person may acquire any rights over the shares or assets of Venetian Macau Limited ("VML"), SCL's wholly owned subsidiary, without first obtaining the approval of the Macao gaming authorities. Similarly, no person may enter into possession of its premises or operate them through a management agreement or any other contract or through step in rights without first obtaining the approval of, and receiving a license from, the Macao gaming authorities. The transfer or creation of encumbrances over ownership of shares representing the share capital of VML or other rights relating to such shares, and any act involving the granting of voting rights or other stockholders' rights to persons other than the
14
Table of Contents

original owners, would require the approval of the Macao government and the subsequent report of such acts and transactions to the Macao gaming authorities.
Our subconcession agreement requires, among other things: (i) approval of the Macao government for transfers of shares in VML, or of any rights over or inherent to such shares, including the grant of voting rights or other stockholder's rights to persons other than the original owners, as well as for the creation of any charge, lien or encumbrance on such shares; (ii) approval of the Macao government for transfers of shares, or of any rights over such shares, in any of our direct or indirect stockholders, provided that such shares or rights are directly or indirectly equivalent to an amount that is equal to or higher than 5% of VML's share capital; and (iii) that the Macao government be given notice of the creation of any encumbrance or the grant of voting rights or other stockholder's rights to persons other than the original owners on shares in any of the direct or indirect stockholders in VML, provided that such shares or rights are equivalent to an amount that is equal to or higher than 5% of VML's share capital. The requirements in provisions (ii) and (iii) above will not apply, however, to securities listed as tradable on a stock exchange.
The Macao gaming authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to, or material involvement with, us to determine whether our suitability and/or financial capacity is affected by this individual. LVSC and SCL shareholders with 5% or more of the share capital, directors and some of our key employees must apply for and undergo a finding of suitability process and maintain due qualification during the subconcession term, and accept the persistent and long-term inspection and supervision exercised by the Macao government. VML is required to notify the Macao government immediately should VML become aware of any fact that may be material to the appropriate qualification of any shareholder who owns 5% of the share capital, or any officer, director or key employee. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Macao gaming authorities, and in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Macao gaming authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in corporate position. If the Macao gaming authorities were to find one of our officers, directors or key employees unsuitable for licensing, we would have to sever all relationships with that person. In addition, the Macao gaming authorities may require us to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications.
Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability after being ordered to do so by the Macao gaming authorities may be found unsuitable. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any beneficial ownership of the common stock of a company incorporated in Macao and registered with the Macao Companies and Moveable Assets Registrar (a "Macao registered corporation") beyond the period of time prescribed by the Macao gaming authorities may lose their rights to the shares. We will be subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us, we:
•pay that person any dividend or interest upon its shares;
•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through shares held by that person;
•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or
•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require that unsuitable person to relinquish its shares.
The Macao gaming authorities also have the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation holding a gaming license.
In addition, the Macao gaming authorities require prior approval for the creation of liens and encumbrances over VML's assets and restrictions on stock in connection with any financing.
The Macao gaming authorities must give their prior approval to changes in control of VML through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control. Entities seeking to acquire control of a Macao registered corporation must satisfy the Macao gaming authorities concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control. The Macao gaming authorities may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction.
15
Table of Contents

The Macao gaming authorities may consider some management opposition to corporate acquisitions, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Macao gaming licensees, and the Macao registered corporations affiliated with such operations, to be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming.
The subconcession agreement requires the Macao gaming authorities' prior approval of any recapitalization plan proposed by VML's Board of Directors. The Chief Executive of Macao could also require VML to increase its share capital if he deemed it necessary.
The Macao government also has the right, after consultation with Galaxy, to unilaterally terminate the subconcession agreement at any time upon the occurrence of specified events of default. In addition, we must comply with various covenants and other provisions under the subconcession.
The subconcession agreement also allows the Macao government to request various changes in the plans and specifications of our Macao properties and to make various other decisions and determinations that may be binding on us. For example, the Macao government has the right to require that we contribute additional capital to our Macao subsidiaries or that we provide certain deposits or other guarantees of performance in any amount determined by the Macao government to be necessary. VML is limited in its ability to raise additional capital by the need to first obtain the approval of the Macao gaming and governmental authorities before raising certain debt or equity.
If our subconcession is terminated in the event of a default, the casinos and gaming-related equipment would be automatically transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us and we would cease to generate any revenues from these operations. In many of these instances, the subconcession agreement does not provide a specific cure period within which any such events may be cured and, instead, we would rely on consultations and negotiations with the Macao government to give us an opportunity to remedy any such default.
The Sands Macao, The Venetian Macao, The Plaza Macao and Four Seasons Hotel Macao, The Londoner Macao and The Parisian Macao are being operated under our subconcession agreement. This subconcession excludes the following gaming activities: mutual bets, lotteries, raffles, interactive gaming and games of chance or other gaming, betting or gambling activities on ships or planes. Our subconcession is exclusively governed by Macao law. We are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Macao in case of any dispute or conflict relating to our subconcession.
Our subconcession agreement expires on June 26, 2022. Unless our subconcession is extended, on that date, the casinos and gaming-related equipment will automatically be transferred to the Macao government without compensation to us and we will cease to generate any revenues from these operations. Beginning on December 26, 2017, the Macao government may redeem our subconcession by giving us at least one-year prior notice and by paying us fair compensation or indemnity.
Under our subconcession, we are obligated to pay to the Macao government an annual premium with a fixed portion and a variable portion based on the number and type of gaming tables employed and gaming machines operated by us. The fixed portion of the premium is equal to 30 million patacas (approximately $4 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020). The variable portion is equal to 300,000 patacas per gaming table reserved exclusively for certain kinds of games or players, 150,000 patacas per gaming table not so reserved and 1,000 patacas per electrical or mechanical gaming machine, including slot machines (approximately $37,570, $18,785 and $125, respectively, at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020), subject to a minimum of 45 million patacas (approximately $6 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020). We also have to pay a special gaming tax of 35% of gross gaming revenues and applicable withholding taxes. We must also contribute 4% of our gross gaming revenue to utilities designated by the Macao government, a portion of which must be used for promotion of tourism in Macao. This percentage may be subject to change in the future.
Currently, the gaming tax in Macao is calculated as a percentage of gross gaming revenue; however, unlike Nevada, gross gaming revenue does not include deductions for credit losses. As a result, if we extend credit to our customers in Macao and are unable to collect on the related receivables from them, we have to pay taxes on our winnings from these customers even though we were unable to collect on the related receivables. If the laws are not changed, our business in Macao may not be able to realize the full benefits of extending credit to our customers.
In August 2018, we received an additional exemption from Macao's corporate income tax on profits generated by the operation of casino games of chance for the period of January 1, 2019 through June 26, 2022, the date our
16
Table of Contents

subconcession agreement expires. Additionally, we entered into an agreement with the Macao government in April 2019, effective through June 26, 2022, providing for an annual payment of 38 million patacas (approximately $5 million at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020) as a substitution for a 12% tax otherwise due from VML shareholders on dividend distributions paid from VML gaming profits. We intend to request extensions of these tax arrangements, however, there is no assurance we will receive the additional agreement.
Development Agreement with Singapore Tourism Board
On August 23, 2006, MBS entered into a development agreement, as amended by a supplementary agreement on December 11, 2009 (the "Development Agreement"), with the STB to design, develop, construct and operate the Marina Bay Sands. The Development Agreement includes a concession for MBS to own and operate a casino within the Integrated Resort. In addition to the casino, the Integrated Resort includes, among other amenities, a hotel, a retail complex, a convention center and meeting room complex, theaters, restaurants and an art/science museum. MBS is one of two companies awarded a concession to operate a casino in Singapore. Under the request for proposals to develop an integrated resort at Marina Bay, Singapore, during an initial ten-year exclusive period (the "Exclusivity Period") only two licensees were granted the right to operate a casino in Singapore, which expired on February 28, 2017. In connection with entering into the Development Agreement, MBS entered into a 60-year lease with the STB for the parcels underlying the project site and entered into an agreement with the Land Transport Authority of Singapore for the provision of necessary infrastructure for rapid transit systems and road works within and/or outside the project site. During the Exclusivity Period, the Company, which is currently the 100% indirect shareholder of MBS, must continue to be the single largest entity with direct or indirect controlling interest of at least 20% in MBS, unless otherwise approved by the CRA.
The term of the casino concession provided under the Development Agreement is for 30 years commencing from the date the Development Agreement was entered into, or August 23, 2006. In order to renew the casino concession, MBS must give notice to the STB and other relevant authorities in Singapore at least five years before its expiration in August 2036. The Singapore government may terminate the casino concession prior to its expiration in order to serve the best interests of the public, in which event fair compensation will be paid to MBS.
In April 2019, MBS and the STB entered into the Second Development Agreement pursuant to which MBS has agreed to construct a second large-scale development, the MBS Expansion Project, located adjacent to Marina Bay Sands, comprising of additional MICE facilities, a hotel tower with approximately 1,000 rooms and suites, a rooftop attraction, convention and meeting facilities and a state-of-the-art live entertainment arena with approximately 15,000 seats. The Second Development Agreement provides for a total project cost of approximately SGD 4.5 billion (approximately $3.4 billion at exchange rates in effect on December 31, 2020). The amount of the total project cost will be finalized as we complete design and development and begin construction. In connection with the Second Development Agreement, MBS entered into a lease with the STB for the parcels of land underlying the project (the "Land"). In April 2019 and in connection with the lease, MBS provided various governmental agencies in Singapore the required premiums, deposits, stamp duty, goods and services tax and other fees in an aggregate amount of approximately SGD 1.54 billion (approximately $1.14 billion at exchange rates in effect at the time of the transaction). We amended our 2012 Singapore Credit Facility to provide for the financing of the development and construction costs, fees and other expenses related to the MBS Expansion Project pursuant to the Development Agreement. On June 18, 2020, MBS entered into an amendment letter to the 2012 Singapore Credit Facility, which among other things, extends to June 30, 2021, the deadline for delivering the construction costs estimate and the construction schedule for the MBS Expansion Project.
The Development Agreement contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the leased land to the development and operation of the project, requirements that MBS obtain prior approval from the STB in order to subdivide the hotel and retail components of the project, prohibitions on any such subdivision during the Exclusivity Period and limitations on MBS' ability to assign the lease or sub-lease any portion of the land during the Exclusivity Period. In addition, the Development Agreement contains events of default, including, among other things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Development Agreement and events of bankruptcy or dissolution.
Employees whose job duties relate to the operations of the casino are required to be licensed by the relevant authorities in Singapore. MBS also must comply with comprehensive internal control standards or regulations concerning advertising; branch office operations; the location, floor plans and layout of the casino; casino operations
17
Table of Contents

including casino-related financial transactions and patron disputes, issuance of credit and collection of debt, relationships with and permitted payments to gaming promoters; security and surveillance; casino access by Singaporeans and non-Singaporeans; compliance functions and the prevention of money laundering; periodic standard and other reports to the CRA; and those relating to social controls including the exclusion of certain persons from the casino.
There is a goods and services tax of 7% imposed on gross gaming revenue and a casino tax of 15% imposed on the gross gaming revenue from the casino after reduction for the amount of goods and services tax, except in the case of gaming by premium players, in which case a casino tax of 5% is imposed on the gross gaming revenue generated from such players after reduction for the amount of the goods and services tax. The casino tax rates will not be changed until March 1, 2022. The provision for bad debts arising from the extension of credit granted to gaming patrons is not deductible against gross gaming revenue when calculating the casino tax, but is deductible for the purposes of calculating the goods and services tax (subject to the prevailing law). MBS is permitted to extend casino credit to persons who are not Singapore citizens or permanent residents, but is not permitted to extend casino credit to Singapore citizens or permanent residents except to premium players.
The key constraint imposed on the casino under the Development Agreement is the total size of the gaming area, which must not be more than 15,000 square meters (approximately 161,000 square feet). The following are not counted towards the gaming area: back of house facilities, reception, restrooms, food and beverage areas, retail shops, stairs, escalators and lift lobbies leading to the gaming area, aesthetic and decorative displays, performance areas and major aisles. The casino located within Marina Bay Sands may not have more than 2,500 gaming machines, but there is no limit on the number of tables for casino games permitted in the casino.
Under the Casino Control Act, as amended (the "Singapore Act"), a casino operator may be subject to a financial penalty, for each ground of disciplinary action which amounts to a serious breach, of a sum not exceeding 10% of the annual gross gaming revenue (as defined in the Singapore Act) of the casino operator for the financial year immediately preceding the date the financial penalty is imposed.
The Singapore Act also requires future applicants and/or renewals for a casino license to be a suitable person to develop, maintain and promote the Integrated Resort as a compelling tourist destination that meets prevailing market demand and industry standards and contributes to the tourism industry in Singapore. The Singapore government has established an evaluation panel that will assess applicants and report to the CRA on this aspect of the casino licensing requirements.
The Second Development Agreement contains provisions relating to the construction of the MBS Expansion Project and associated deadlines for completion, insurance and limitations on MBS’ ability to assign the lease or sub-let any portion of the Land. In addition, the Second Development Agreement contains events of default, including, among other things, the failure of MBS to perform its obligations under the Second Development Agreement. The Second Development Agreement also contains, among other things, restrictions limiting the use of the Land to the development and operation of the MBS Expansion Project and requirements that MBS obtain the prior approval of the STB in order to subdivide the Land or any building thereon, which approval, if given, will be subject to such terms and conditions as may be determined by the STB.
The Second Development Agreement makes provision for certain benefits and entitlements conferred on MBS on specified terms and conditions. Among these, upon the achievement of certain milestones, MBS will be entitled to make available an additional 1,000 gaming machines over and above its existing 2,500 gaming machines. On October 7, 2019, MBS was granted entitlement to make available 500 of these additional 1,000 gaming machines. In addition, under the Second Development Agreement, MBS is granted approval for the change of use of the area comprising the whole of the 55th floor of MBS’ hotel tower 1, or such other areas as may be agreed within hotel tower 1, to be developed and used as part of MBS’ casino; and MBS is granted an option to purchase an additional 2,000 square meters of casino gaming area at a price to be determined by the relevant Singapore government authority upon written request by MBS to exercise the option. In addition, the Second Development Agreement contemplates that for a period of not less than 10 years commencing no sooner than March 1, 2022, the rate of casino tax applicable to MBS will not exceed specified tiered rates; there shall not be more than two casino licenses in force under the Casino Control Act at any time prior to January 1, 2031; and for a period of five years from the date of the Second Development Agreement, the entry levy payable by a Singapore citizen or permanent resident for entry into the casino will not exceed SGD 150 for a 24-hour period and SGD 3,000 for a 12-month period. The
18
Table of Contents

Second Development Agreement also provides for MBS to be entitled to compensation by STB for any losses or damages suffered under certain conditions and events related to the above-described benefits and entitlements. The Second Development Agreement further provides MBS must maintain compliance with the material terms of the Second Development Agreement to obtain the above-described benefits and entitlements.
State of Nevada
The ownership and operation of casino gaming facilities in the State of Nevada are subject to the Nevada Gaming Control Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Nevada Act") and various local regulations. Our gaming operations are also subject to the licensing and regulatory control of the Nevada Gaming Commission (the "Nevada Commission"), the Nevada Gaming Control Board (the "Nevada Board") and the Clark County Liquor and Gaming Licensing Board (the "CCLGLB" and together with the Nevada Commission and the Nevada Board, the "Nevada Gaming Authorities").
The laws, regulations and supervisory procedures of the Nevada Gaming Authorities are based upon declarations of public policy that are concerned with, among other things:
•the prevention of unsavory or unsuitable persons from having a direct or indirect involvement with gaming at any time or in any capacity;
•the establishment and maintenance of responsible accounting practices and procedures;
•the maintenance of effective controls over the financial practices of licensees, including establishing minimum procedures for internal fiscal affairs and the safeguarding of assets and revenues, providing reliable record-keeping and requiring the filing of periodic reports with the Nevada Gaming Authorities;
•the prevention of cheating and fraudulent practices; and
•the establishment of a source of state and local revenues through taxation and licensing fees.
Any change in such laws, regulations and procedures could have an adverse effect on our Las Vegas operations.
Las Vegas Sands, LLC ("LVSLLC") is licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities to operate the resort hotel. The gaming license requires the periodic payment of fees and taxes and is not transferable. LVSLLC is also registered as an intermediary company of Venetian Casino Resort, LLC ("VCR"). VCR is licensed as a manufacturer and distributor of gaming devices and as a key employee of LVSLLC. LVSLLC and VCR are collectively referred to as the "licensed subsidiaries." LVSC is registered with the Nevada Commission as a publicly traded corporation (the "registered corporation"). As such, we must periodically submit detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and furnish any other information the Nevada Gaming Authorities may require. No person may become a stockholder of, or receive any percentage of the profits from, the licensed subsidiaries without first obtaining licenses and approvals from the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Additionally, the CCLGLB has taken the position it has the authority to approve all persons owning or controlling the stock of any corporation controlling a gaming licensee. We, and the licensed subsidiaries, possess all state and local government registrations, approvals, permits and licenses required in order for us to engage in gaming activities at The Venetian Resort Las Vegas.
The Nevada Gaming Authorities may investigate any individual who has a material relationship to or material involvement with us or the licensed subsidiaries to determine whether such individual is suitable or should be licensed as a business associate of a gaming licensee. Officers, directors and certain key employees of the licensed subsidiaries must file applications with the Nevada Gaming Authorities and may be required to be licensed by the Nevada Gaming Authorities. Our officers, directors and key employees who are actively and directly involved in the gaming activities of the licensed subsidiaries may be required to be licensed or found suitable by the Nevada Gaming Authorities.
The Nevada Gaming Authorities may deny an application for licensing or a finding of suitability for any cause they deem reasonable. A finding of suitability is comparable to licensing; both require submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation. The applicant for licensing or a finding of suitability, or the gaming licensee by whom the applicant is employed or for whom the applicant serves, must pay all the costs of the investigation. Changes in licensed positions must be reported to the Nevada Gaming Authorities, and
19
Table of Contents

in addition to their authority to deny an application for a finding of suitability or licensure, the Nevada Gaming Authorities have jurisdiction to disapprove a change in a corporate position.
If the Nevada Gaming Authorities were to find an officer, director or key employee unsuitable for licensing or to have an inappropriate relationship with us or the licensed subsidiaries, we would have to sever all relationships with such person. In addition, the Nevada Commission may require us or the licensed subsidiaries to terminate the employment of any person who refuses to file appropriate applications. Determinations of suitability or questions pertaining to licensing are not subject to judicial review in Nevada.
We, and the licensed subsidiaries, are required to submit periodic detailed financial and operating reports to the Nevada Commission. Substantially all of our and our licensed subsidiaries' material loans, leases, sales of securities and similar financing transactions must be reported to or approved by the Nevada Commission.
If it were determined we or a licensed subsidiary violated the Nevada Act, the registration and gaming licenses we then hold could be limited, conditioned, suspended or revoked, subject to compliance with certain statutory and regulatory procedures. In addition, we and the persons involved could be subject to substantial fines for each separate violation of the Nevada Act at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. Further, a supervisor could be appointed by the Nevada Commission to operate the casinos, and, under certain circumstances, earnings generated during the supervisor's appointment (except for the reasonable rental value of the casinos) could be forfeited to the State of Nevada. Limitation, conditioning or suspension of any gaming registration or license or the appointment of a supervisor could (and revocation of any gaming license would) have a material adverse effect on our gaming operations.
Any beneficial or record holder of our securities, regardless of the number of shares owned, may be required to file an application, be investigated, and have its suitability as a beneficial holder of our voting securities determined if the Nevada Commission has reason to believe such ownership would otherwise be inconsistent with the declared policies of the State of Nevada. The applicant must pay all costs of investigation incurred by the Nevada Gaming Authorities in conducting any such investigation.
The Nevada Act requires any person who acquires more than 5% of our voting securities to report the acquisition to the Chair of the Nevada Board. The Nevada Act requires beneficial owners of more than 10% of our voting securities apply to the Nevada Commission for a finding of suitability within thirty days after the Chair of the Nevada Board mails the written notice requiring such filing. Under certain circumstances, an "institutional investor" as defined in the Nevada Act, which acquires more than 10%, but not more than 25%, of our voting securities "for investment purposes only" and meets other regulatory requirements (subject to certain additional holdings as a result of certain debt restructurings), may apply to the Nevada Commission for a waiver of such finding of suitability.
If the beneficial holder of securities who must be found suitable is a corporation, partnership or trust, it must submit detailed business and financial information including a list of beneficial owners. The applicant is required to pay all costs of investigation.
Any person who fails or refuses to apply for a finding of suitability or a license within thirty days after being ordered to do so by the Nevada Commission or the Chair of the Nevada Board may be found unsuitable. The same restrictions apply to a record owner if the record owner, after request, fails to identify the beneficial owner. Any stockholder found unsuitable who holds, directly or indirectly, any ownership of the common stock of a registered corporation beyond such period of time as may be prescribed by the Nevada Commission may be guilty of a criminal offense. We are subject to disciplinary action if, after we receive notice that a person is unsuitable to be a stockholder or to have any other relationship with us or a licensed subsidiary, we, or any of the licensed subsidiaries:
•pay that person any dividend or interest upon any voting securities;
•allow that person to exercise, directly or indirectly, any voting right conferred through securities held by that person;
•pay remuneration in any form to that person for services rendered or otherwise; or
•fail to pursue all lawful efforts to require such unsuitable person to relinquish his or her voting securities including, if necessary, the purchase for cash at fair market value.
Our charter documents include provisions intended to help us comply with these requirements.
20
Table of Contents

The Nevada Commission may, in its discretion, require the holder of any debt security of a registered corporation to file an application, be investigated and be found suitable to own the debt security of such registered corporation. If the Nevada Commission determines a person is unsuitable to own such security, then pursuant to the Nevada Act, the registered corporation can be sanctioned, including the loss of its approvals, if without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission, it:
•pays to the unsuitable person any dividend, interest, or any distribution whatsoever;
•recognizes any voting right by such unsuitable person in connection with such securities; or
•pays the unsuitable person remuneration in any form.
We are required to maintain a current stock ledger in Nevada that may be examined by the Nevada Gaming Authorities at any time. If any securities are held in trust by an agent or by a nominee, the record holder may be required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities and we are also required to disclose the identity of the beneficial owner to the Nevada Gaming Authorities. A failure to make such disclosure may be grounds for finding the record holder unsuitable. We are also required to render maximum assistance in determining the identity of the beneficial owner.
We cannot make a public offering of any securities without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission if the securities or the proceeds from the offering are intended to be used to construct, acquire or finance gaming facilities in Nevada, or to retire or extend obligations incurred for such purposes. On November 15, 2018, the Nevada Commission granted us prior approval to make public offerings for a period of three years, subject to certain conditions (the "shelf approval"). The shelf approval, however, may be rescinded for good cause without prior notice upon the issuance of an interlocutory stop order by the Chair of the Nevada Board. The shelf approval does not constitute a finding, recommendation, or approval by the Nevada Commission or the Nevada Board as to the investment merits of any securities offered under the shelf approval. Any representation to the contrary is unlawful.
Changes in our control through a merger, consolidation, stock or asset acquisition, management or consulting agreement, or any act or conduct by any person whereby he or she obtains control, shall not occur without the prior approval of the Nevada Commission. Entities seeking to acquire control of a registered corporation must satisfy the Nevada Board and the Nevada Commission concerning a variety of stringent standards prior to assuming control of such registered corporation. The Nevada Commission may also require controlling stockholders, officers, directors and other persons having a material relationship or involvement with the entity proposing to acquire control, to be investigated and licensed as part of the approval process of the transaction.
The Nevada legislature has declared that some corporate acquisitions opposed by management, repurchases of voting securities and corporate defense tactics affecting Nevada gaming licensees, and registered corporations that are affiliated with those operations, may be injurious to stable and productive corporate gaming. The Nevada Commission has established a regulatory scheme to ameliorate the potentially adverse effects of these business practices upon Nevada's gaming industry and to further Nevada's policy to:
•assure the financial stability of corporate gaming operators and their affiliates;
•preserve the beneficial aspects of conducting business in the corporate form; and
•promote a neutral environment for the orderly governance of corporate affairs.
Approvals are, in certain circumstances, required from the Nevada Commission before we can make exceptional repurchases of voting securities above the current market price thereof and before a corporate acquisition opposed by management can be consummated.
The Nevada Act also requires prior approval of a plan of recapitalization proposed by the Board of Directors in response to a tender offer made directly to our stockholders for the purposes of acquiring control of the registered corporation.
License fees and taxes, computed in various ways depending upon the type of gaming or activity involved, are payable to the State of Nevada and to Clark County, Nevada. Depending upon the particular fee or tax involved, these fees and taxes are payable monthly, quarterly or annually and are based upon:
•a percentage of the gross revenues received;
21
Table of Contents

•the number of gaming devices operated; or
•the number of table games operated.
The tax on gross gaming revenues received is generally 6.75% for the State of Nevada and 0.55% for Clark County. In addition, an excise tax is paid by us on charges for admission to any facility where certain forms of live entertainment are provided. VCR is also required to pay certain fees and taxes to the State of Nevada as a licensed manufacturer and distributor.
We have deposited with the Nevada Board, and thereafter maintain, a revolving fund in the amount of $50,000 to pay the expenses of any investigation by the Nevada Board into our participation in such gaming operations outside of Nevada. The revolving fund is subject to increase or decrease at the discretion of the Nevada Commission. We are also required to comply with certain reporting requirements on such operation and are subject to disciplinary action by the Nevada Commission if the foreign gaming operations knowingly violate any laws of any foreign jurisdiction pertaining to such foreign gaming operation, fail to conduct such foreign gaming operation in accordance with the standards of honesty and integrity required of Nevada gaming operations, engage in activities harmful to the State of Nevada or its ability to collect gaming taxes and fees, or employ a person in such foreign operation who has been denied a license or a finding of suitability in Nevada on the ground of personal unsuitability or who has been found guilty of cheating at gambling.
The sale of alcoholic beverages by the licensed subsidiaries on the casino premises and at the Sands Expo Center is subject to licensing, control and regulation by the applicable local authorities. Our licensed subsidiaries have obtained the necessary liquor licenses to sell alcoholic beverages. All licenses are revocable and are not transferable. The agencies involved have full power to limit, condition, suspend or revoke any such licenses, and any such disciplinary action could (and revocation of such licenses would) have a material adverse effect on our operations.
Agreements Relating to the Malls in Las Vegas
For a discussion of each of our malls in Las Vegas, see "Part II — Item 8 — Financial Statements and Supplementary Data — Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Note 12 — Mall Activities."
Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement
Our business plan calls for each of The Venetian Resort Las Vegas, Sands Expo Center and the Grand Canal Shoppes, though separately owned, to be integrally related components of one facility (the "LV Integrated Resort"). In establishing the terms for the integrated operation of these components, the Fourth Amended and Restated Reciprocal Easement, Use and Operating Agreement, dated as of February 29, 2008, by and among Interface Group-Nevada, Inc., Grand Canal Shops II, LLC, Phase II Mall Subsidiary, LLC, VCR and Palazzo Condo Tower, LLC (the "REA") sets forth agreements regarding, among other things, encroachments, easements, operating standards, maintenance requirements, insurance requirements, casualty and condemnation, joint marketing and the sharing of some facilities and related costs. Subject to applicable law, the REA binds all current and future owners of all portions of the LV Integrated Resort. Accordingly, subject to applicable law, the obligations in the REA will "run with the land" if any of the components change hands.
