Lamb Weston Holdings, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “our,” “the Company,” or “Lamb Weston”), along with its joint venture partners, is a leading global producer, distributor, and marketer of value-added frozen potato products and is headquartered in Eagle, Idaho. We, along with our joint venture partners, are the number one supplier of value-added frozen potato products in North America. We, along with our joint venture partners, are also a leading supplier of value-added frozen potato products internationally, with a strong and growing presence in high-growth emerging markets. We, along with our joint venture partners, offer a broad product portfolio to a diverse channel and customer base in over 100 countries. French fries represent the majority of our value-added frozen potato product portfolio.

We were organized as a Delaware corporation in July 2016, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Conagra Brands, Inc. (formerly, ConAgra Foods, Inc., “Conagra”). On November 9, 2016, we separated from Conagra and became an independent publicly traded company through the pro rata distribution by Conagra of 100% of our outstanding common stock to Conagra stockholders (“Separation”). Our common stock trades under the ticker symbol “LW” on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”).

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Lamb Weston Holdings, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.

Considerations related to the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”)

In December 2019, an outbreak of illness caused by a novel coronavirus called COVID-19 was identified in Wuhan, China. On January 31, 2020, the United States declared a public health emergency related to the novel coronavirus and on March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared that the spread of COVID-19 qualified as a global

3

Table of Contents

pandemic. In an attempt to minimize the transmission of COVID-19, significant social and economic restrictions have been imposed in the United States and internationally. These restrictions have had negative implications for portions of our business and the U.S. and global economy. In the preparation of these financial statements and related disclosures we have assessed the impact that COVID-19 has had on our estimates, assumptions, and forecasts, and made additional disclosures, as necessary. As the COVID-19 situation is unprecedented and ever evolving, future events and effects related to the illness cannot be determined with precision and actual results could significantly differ from estimates or forecasts.

See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for further discussion of COVID-19 considerations.

Segments

We have four reportable segments: Global, Foodservice, Retail, and Other. For segment financial information see Note 14, Segments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

Global

Our Global segment includes frozen potato products sold in North America and international markets to the top 100 North American based restaurant chains and international customers comprised of global and regional restaurant chains, foodservice distributors, and retailers. We have included non-U.S. and non-Canadian retail and foodservice customers in the Global segment due to efficiencies associated with coordinating sales to all customer types within specific markets, as well as due to these customers’ smaller scale and dependence on local economic conditions. The Global segment’s product portfolio includes frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, and appetizers sold under the Lamb Weston brand, as well as many customer labels.

Foodservice

Our Foodservice segment includes frozen potato products sold throughout the United States and Canada to commercial distributors, restaurant chains outside the top 100 North American based restaurant chains, and non-commercial channels. The Foodservice segment’s primary products are frozen potatoes, sweet potatoes, commercial ingredients, and appetizers sold under the Lamb Weston brand, as well as many customer labels.

Retail

Our Retail segment includes consumer facing frozen potato products sold primarily to grocery, mass merchants, club, and specialty retailers. The Retail segment’s primary products are frozen potatoes and sweet potato items sold under our owned or licensed brands, including Grown in Idaho and Alexia, other licensed equities comprised of brand names of major North American restaurant chains, and the retailers’ own brands.

Other

The Other reporting segment primarily includes our vegetable and dairy businesses and mark-to-market gains and losses associated with commodity hedging contracts before the commodities are used in our business segments.

Joint Venture Relationships

We conduct some of our business through three unconsolidated joint ventures and include our share of the earnings of these affiliates as equity method investment earnings in our consolidated financial statements based on our

4

Table of Contents

economic ownership interest in each of these joint ventures. These joint ventures produce and market value-added frozen potato products for our customers:

	●	We hold a fifty percent ownership interest in Lamb-Weston/Meijer v.o.f. (“Lamb-Weston/Meijer”), a joint venture with Meijer Frozen Foods B.V. Headquartered in the Netherlands, this joint venture manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in Europe.

	●	We hold a fifty percent ownership interest in Lamb-Weston/RDO Frozen (“Lamb-Weston/RDO”), a joint venture with RDO Frozen Co. This joint venture operates a potato processing facility in Minnesota. We also provide all sales and marketing services to Lamb-Weston/RDO and receive a fee for these services based on a percentage of the net sales of the venture.

	●	We hold a fifty percent ownership interest in Lamb Weston Alimentos Modernos S.A. (“LWAMSA”), a joint venture with Sociedad Commercial del Plata. Headquartered in Argentina, this joint venture manufactures and sells frozen potato products principally in South America.

For more information, see Note 6, Investments in Joint Ventures, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

On November 2, 2018, we entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (the “BSW Agreement”) with Ochoa Ag Unlimited Foods, Inc. (“Ochoa”) to acquire the remaining 50.01% interest in Lamb Weston BSW, LLC, a potato processing joint venture (“Lamb Weston BSW”). Prior to entering into the BSW Agreement, we were the primary beneficiary of Lamb Weston BSW, a variable interest entity, and accordingly, we consolidated the financial statements of Lamb Weston BSW and deducted 50.01% of the operating results of the noncontrolling interests to arrive at “Net income attributable to Lamb Weston Holdings, Inc.” on our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Our Consolidated Statements of Earnings include 100% of Lamb Weston BSW’s earnings beginning November 2, 2018. For more information, see Note 6, Investments in Joint Ventures, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.

Sales, Distribution and Customers

We benefit from strong relationships with a diverse set of customers. We sell our products through a combined network of internal sales personnel and independent brokers, agents, and distributors to chain restaurants, wholesale, grocery, mass merchants, club retailers, specialty retailers, and foodservice distributors and institutions, including businesses, educational institutions, independent restaurants, regional chain restaurants, and convenience stores. We have long-tenured relationships with leading quick service and fast casual restaurants, global foodservice distributors, large grocery retailers, and mass merchants.

Our largest customer, McDonald’s Corporation, accounted for approximately 10% of our consolidated net sales in both fiscal 2020 and 2019, and 11% of our consolidated net sales in fiscal 2018. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our fiscal 2020, 2019, or 2018 consolidated net sales. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated accounts receivable as of May 31, 2020 or May 26, 2019.

Research and Development

We leverage our research and development resources for both growth and efficiency initiatives. We seek to drive growth through innovation by creating new products, enhancing the quality of existing products, and participating in joint menu planning exercises with our customers. We also emphasize sustainability in our research and development activities and continue to drive processing innovations aimed at reducing waste and water usage and improving food safety. Research and development expenses were $15.4 million in both 2020 and 2019, and $13.5 million in fiscal 2018.

5

Table of Contents

Trademarks, Licenses and Patents

Our trademarks are material to our business and are protected by registration or other means in the United States and most other geographic markets where the related food items are sold. Depending on the country, trademarks generally remain valid for as long as they are in use and their registrations are maintained. Trademark registrations generally are for renewable, fixed terms. Our significant trademarks include: Lamb Weston, Lamb’s Supreme, Lamb Weston Seeing Possibilities in Potatoes (and design), Lamb’s Seasoned, LW Private Reserve, Stealth Fries, and Sweet Things. We also sell certain products, such as Grown in Idaho and Alexia, which we license from third parties.

We own numerous patents worldwide. We consider our portfolio of patents, patent applications, patent licenses, proprietary trade secrets, technology, know-how processes, and related intellectual property rights to be material to our operations. Patents, issued or applied for, cover inventions, including packaging, manufacturing processes, equipment, formulations, and designs. Our issued patents extend for varying periods according to the date of the patent application filing or grant and the legal term of patents in the various countries where patent protection is obtained. The actual protection afforded by a patent, which can vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, the scope of its coverage as determined by the patent office or courts in the country, and the availability of legal remedies in the country. While we consider our patent portfolio to be material to our business, the loss of one patent or a group of related patents would not have a material adverse effect on our business.

Raw Materials and Packaging

Our primary raw materials are potatoes, edible oils, and packaging. We source a significant amount of our raw potatoes under both strategic, long-term grower relationships and shorter-term annual contracts. In the United States, most of the potato crop used in our products is grown in Washington, Idaho, and Oregon. For Lamb-Weston/Meijer, European growing regions for the necessary potatoes are concentrated in the Netherlands, Austria, Belgium, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. We also have growing regions in China, Australia, and Argentina. We believe that the grower networks to which we have access provide a sufficient source of raw potato inputs year-to-year. We source edible oils through strategic relationships with key suppliers, and we source energy and packaging materials through multiple suppliers under a variety of agreement types.

The prices paid for these raw materials, as well as other raw materials used in making our products, generally reflect factors such as weather, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, tariffs, and the effects of governmental agricultural programs. Although the prices of raw materials can be expected to fluctuate as a result of these factors, we believe such raw materials to be in adequate supply.

From time to time, we have faced increased costs for our significant raw materials, packaging and energy inputs. We seek to mitigate higher input costs through long-term relationships, contract strategies, and hedging activities where an active market for an input exists, as well as through our pricing and productivity initiatives.

Manufacturing

We operate 18 manufacturing facilities for our products. See "Item 2. Properties" for more information about our manufacturing facilities. Our joint ventures operate a total of nine manufacturing facilities.

In addition to our own manufacturing facilities, we source a portion of our products under “co-packing” agreements, a common industry practice in which manufacturing is outsourced to other companies. We regularly evaluate our co-packing arrangements to ensure the most cost-effective manufacturing of our products and to utilize company-owned manufacturing facilities most effectively.

International Operations

At May 31, 2020, we had operations in eighteen countries, with manufacturing and processing facilities in four countries. Foreign net sales, including sales by domestic segments to customers located outside of the United States, were approximately $752.9 million, $742.7 million, and $665.8 million in fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Our long-

6

Table of Contents

lived assets located outside of the United States are not significant. See Note 14, Segments, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in “Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our U.S. and non-U.S. operations. Also see “Item 2. Properties,” for more information on our manufacturing and other facilities. For a discussion of risks related to our operations outside the United States, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.

Backlog

We manufacture primarily to fill customer orders from finished goods inventories. While at any given time there may be some backlog of orders due to the seasonal nature of our manufacturing activities and associated inventory, such backlog is not material in respect to annual net sales, and the changes of backlog orders from time to time are not significant.

Competition

The value-added frozen potato products industry in North America, Europe and other international markets is highly competitive. Competitors include large North American and European frozen potato product companies that compete globally, as well as local and regional companies. Significant competitors include Agristo NV, Aviko B.V., Cavendish Farms Corporation, Clarebout Potatoes NV, Farm Frites International B.V., J.R. Simplot Company, The Kraft Heinz Company, McCain Foods Limited, and Mydibel S.A. Some of our competitors are larger and have substantially more financial, sales and marketing, and other resources. We compete with producers of similar products on the basis of, among other things, customer service, value, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, price, and the ability to identify and satisfy customer preferences. The markets in which we operate are expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. See also “Item 1A. Risk Factors – Increased competition may result in reduced sales or profits” of this Form 10-K.

Seasonality

Our product contribution margin percentage, inventory levels, net sales and cash flows are affected by seasonality. In general, our product contribution margin percentage tends to be highest in our fiscal third quarter, reflecting the benefit of freshly-harvested potatoes. We typically harvest potatoes in the Pacific Northwest of the United States in July through October, which is primarily in our fiscal second quarter. Freshly-harvested potatoes process more efficiently in our production lines and are not subject to storage or secondary transport costs. We typically hold about 60 days of finished goods inventory on a first-in-first-out basis, so the relatively favorable costs primarily incurred from our fiscal second quarter harvest flow through our income statement in our fiscal third quarter. Inventory levels also tend to be higher in our fiscal third quarter, requiring more working capital at that time. In general, net sales and cash flows tend to be higher in our fiscal fourth quarter, reflecting customer and consumer buying patterns.

Due to severe impacts of the government mandated shutdowns in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, seasonal variations in the demand for our products in fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 differed from prior years. The fiscal fourth quarter operating results are not necessarily indicative of operating results for the entire year.

Employees

As of June 30, 2020, we had approximately 7,700 employees. Approximately 800 of these employees work outside of the United States. Approximately 23% of our employees are parties to collective bargaining agreements on terms that we believe are typical for the industry in which we operate. Most of the union workers at our facilities are represented under contracts that expire at various times throughout the next several years. Collective bargaining agreements that represent approximately 19% of our hourly employees, who are parties to collective bargaining agreements, expire in fiscal 2021. As these agreements expire, we believe they will be renegotiated on terms satisfactory to us. 

7

Table of Contents

Information About Our Executive Officers

The following are our executive officers as of July 20, 2020:

	

	

	

	

Name
	

	

Title
	

	

Age

Thomas P. Werner
	

	

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer
	

	

 54

Robert M. McNutt
	

	

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
	

	

 60

Micheline C. Carter
	

	

Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
	

	

 54

Sharon L. Miller
	

	

Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Business Unit
	

	

 54

Gerardo Scheufler
	

	

Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer
	

	

 52

Michael J. Smith
	

	

Senior Vice President and General Manager of Foodservice, Retail, Marketing and Innovation
	

	

 43

Eryk J. Spytek
	

	

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
	

	

 52

Thomas P. Werner has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of our Board of Directors since November 2016. Prior to that, he served as President, Commercial Foods, for Conagra, a food company, since May 2015. In that role, he led the company’s Lamb Weston and Foodservice businesses, as well as its previously divested Spicetec Flavors & Seasonings and J.M. Swank operations. Mr. Werner also served as interim President of Conagra’s Private Brands from June 2015 through its divestiture in February 2016. Before his appointment as President, Commercial Foods, Mr. Werner served as Senior Vice President of Finance for Conagra’s Private Brands and Commercial Foods operating segments from June 2013 to April 2015, and Senior Vice President of Finance for Lamb Weston from May 2011 until June 2013.

Robert M. McNutt has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2017. Prior to joining Lamb Weston, Mr. McNutt served as Chief Financial Officer of Expera Specialty Solutions, LLC, a specialty paper company, from September 2013 to December 2016. Mr. McNutt served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Greif, Inc., an industrial packaging company, from January 2011 to July 2013, and as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Boise Inc., a packaging and paper products manufacturer, from February 2008 to January 2011.

Micheline C. Carter has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since November 2016. Ms. Carter joined Lamb Weston in September 2016. From July 2012 until September 2016, she served in a variety of roles with The Kraft Heinz Company, a food and beverage company, including as Head of U.S. People and Performance and Global Corporate Functions from November 2015 to September 2016, Vice President of Human Resources, Global Corporate Functions from August 2015 until October 2015, Vice President of Human Resources, Cheese & Dairy from January 2015 until July 2015, and Senior Director Human Resources & Global Exports from July 2012 until January 2015. Before joining The Kraft Heinz Company, Ms. Carter served from February 2011 until July 2012 as Senior Director Human Resources, Solar Energy & Solar Materials with MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc. (now known as SunEdison, Inc.), a supplier of silicon wafers to semiconductor and photovoltaic cell companies. Before that, Ms. Carter served in a variety of roles with J. C. Penney Company, Inc., an apparel and home furnishings retailer, Yum! Brands, Inc., an operator of quick service restaurants, and Texas Instruments Incorporated, a semiconductor design and manufacturing company.

Sharon L. Miller has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager, Global Business Unit since September 2016. Before that, she served as Conagra’s Vice President and General Manager, Lamb Weston Global Business Unit since 2015. Since joining Conagra in 1999, Ms. Miller has held various leadership positions, including Vice President of Sales for Lamb Weston's European joint venture, Lamb-Weston/Meijer. Prior to that, Ms. Miller was a key sales and business leader within Lamb Weston in both the United States and Canada. She also has held various sales positions with North American food manufacturers and foodservice distributors.

8

Table of Contents

Gerardo Scheufler has served as our Senior Vice President and Chief Supply Chain Officer since August 2019. Prior to joining Lamb Weston, Mr. Scheufler served as the Vice President of Global Operations at Mondelez International, Inc., a food and beverage company, from July 2014 until August 2019. During his tenure at Mondelez International, Mr. Scheufler oversaw a major global restructuring program to optimize the global supply chain footprint, including the manufacturing, customer service, quality, logistics, health, safety and environment, and innovation functions. Prior to that, Mr. Scheufler spent more than 20 years at The Procter & Gamble Company, a consumer goods corporation, in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility after starting his career in plant operations in 1990.

Michael J. Smith has served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager of Foodservice, Retail, Marketing and Innovation since April 2018. Prior to that, he served as Senior Vice President, Growth and Strategy beginning in September 2016. Mr. Smith also served as Vice President and General Manager of Lamb Weston Retail from May 2011 to September 2016, Vice President and General Manager of Conagra’s Private Brands from March 2014 to February 2016, and Vice President of Global Marketing of Lamb Weston from July 2012 to March 2014. Prior to joining Conagra in 2007, Mr. Smith held various brand management roles at Dean Foods Company, a food and beverage company, and its WhiteWave division from May 2003 until December 2007.

Eryk J. Spytek has served as our Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2016. From June 2015 until October 2016, Mr. Spytek was Of Counsel at Winston & Strawn LLP, a law firm. Before returning to Winston & Strawn LLP, he served from December 2009 until April 2015 in a variety of roles with Mead Johnson Nutrition Company, a manufacturer of infant formula, including as Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from April 2013 to April 2015 and as Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from December 2009 to April 2013. Before that, Mr. Spytek served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at SIRVA, Inc., a moving and relocation services provider, from February 2006 to February 2009. Before joining SIRVA, Inc., Mr. Spytek was a partner at Winston & Strawn LLP.

Ethics and Governance

We have adopted a code of conduct that applies to all of our employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior corporate financial officers that applies to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Controller. These codes are available on our website at www.lambweston.com through the “Investors—Corporate Governance” link. We will disclose any waiver we grant to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Controller under our codes, or certain amendments to the codes, on our website at www.lambweston.com.

In addition, we adopted Corporate Governance Principles and charters for the Audit and Finance Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Compensation Committee. All of these materials are available on our website at www.lambweston.com and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Lamb Weston Holdings, Inc., 599 S. Rivershore Lane, Eagle, Idaho 83616.

The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC.

Food Safety and Labeling

We are subject to extensive regulation, including, among other things, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended by the Food Safety Modernization Act, the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). This comprehensive and evolving regulatory program governs, among other things, the manufacturing, composition and ingredients, labeling, packaging, and safety of food, including compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices. In addition, the Nutrition Label Reform Act of 2016 and regulations promulgated thereunder by the FDA, prescribes the format and content in which specific nutrition information is required to appear on the labels of food products. We are also subject to regulation by certain other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Our operations and products are also subject to state and local regulation, including the registration and licensing of plants, enforcement by state health agencies of various state standards, and the registration and inspection of facilities.

9

Table of Contents

Compliance with federal, state, and local regulation is costly and time-consuming. Enforcement actions for violations of federal, state, and local regulations may include seizure and condemnation of products, cease and desist orders, injunctions, voluntary recalls or market withdrawals of products, and monetary penalties. We believe that our practices are sufficient to maintain compliance with applicable government regulations.

Environmental, Health and Safety Regulations

We are subject to a number of federal, state, and local laws and other regulations relating to the protection of the environment and the safety and health of personnel and the public. These requirements apply to a broad range of our activities, including: the discharge of pollutants into the air, land and water; the identification, generation, storage, handling, transportation, disposal, recordkeeping, labeling, spill prevention and reporting of, and emergency response in connection with, hazardous materials; noise emissions from our facilities; and safety and health standards, practices, and procedures that apply to the workplace and the operation of our facilities.

In order to comply with these requirements, we may need to spend substantial amounts of money and other resources from time to time to (i) construct or acquire new equipment, (ii) acquire or amend permits to authorize facility operations, (iii) modify, upgrade, or replace existing and proposed equipment, and (iv) clean up or decommission our facilities or other locations in accordance with regulatory requirements. Our capital and operating budgets include costs and expenses associated with complying with these laws and other requirements.

Available Information

We make available, free of charge on our website at www.lambweston.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC also maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC; the address of that site is https://www.sec.gov. We use our website, through the “Investors” link, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Additionally, in June 2020, we released our first environmental, social, and governance report that describes our sustainability programs. The report can be found on our website at https://esg.lambweston.com. The information on our website, including our environmental, social, and governance report, is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC unless expressly noted.
