OVERVIEW
LyondellBasell Industries N.V. is a global, independent chemical company and was incorporated, as a Naamloze Vennootschap, under Dutch law on October 15, 2009. Unless otherwise indicated, the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” and “LyondellBasell” are used in this report to refer to the businesses of LyondellBasell Industries N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries. We are one of the world’s top independent chemical companies based on revenues.
We participate globally across the petrochemical value chain and are an industry leader in many of our product lines. Our chemicals businesses consist primarily of large processing plants that convert large volumes of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbon feedstocks into plastic resins and other chemicals. Our chemical products tend to be basic building blocks for other chemicals and plastics. Our plastic products are used in large volumes as well as smaller specialty applications. Our customers use our plastics and chemicals to manufacture a wide range of products that people use in their everyday lives including food packaging, home furnishings, automotive components, paints and coatings. Our refining business consists of our Houston refinery, which processes crude oil into refined products such as gasoline, diesel and jet fuel. We also develop and license chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufacture and sell polyolefin catalysts.
Our financial performance is influenced by the supply and demand for our products, the cost and availability of feedstocks and commodity products, global and regional production capacity, our operational efficiency and our ability to control costs. We have a strong operational focus and, as a producer of large volume commodities, continuously strive to differentiate ourselves through safe, reliable and low-cost operations in all our businesses. We purchase large quantities of natural gas, electricity and steam which we use as energy to fuel our facilities and purchase large quantities of natural gas liquids and crude oil derivatives which we use as feedstocks. The relatively low cost of natural gas-derived raw materials in the U.S. versus the global cost of crude oil-derived raw materials has had a significant positive influence on the profitability of our North American operations.
SEGMENTS
We manage our operations through six operating segments. Our reportable segments are:
•Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas (“O&P—Americas”). Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins and co-products, polyethylene and polypropylene.
•Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International (“O&P—EAI”). Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets olefins and co-products, polyethylene and polypropylene.
•Intermediates and Derivatives (“I&D”). Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide and its derivatives; oxyfuels and related products; and intermediate chemicals, such as styrene monomer, acetyls, ethylene oxide and ethylene glycol.
•Advanced Polymer Solutions (“APS”). Our APS segment produces and markets compounding and solutions, such as polypropylene compounds, engineered plastics, masterbatches, colors and powders, engineered composites and advanced polymers, which includes Catalloy and polybutene-1.
•Refining. Our Refining segment refines heavy, high-sulfur crude oil and other crude oils of varied types and sources available on the U.S. Gulf Coast into refined products, including gasoline and distillates.
•Technology. Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts.
Financial information about our business segments and geographical areas can be found in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Information about the locations where we produce our primary products can be
4
Table of Contents
found under “Description of Properties.” No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in 2020, 2019 or 2018.
Olefins and Polyolefins Segments Generally
We are one of the leading worldwide producers of olefins and polyethylene (“PE”) and we are the world’s second largest producer of polypropylene (“PP”). We manage our olefin and polyolefin business in two reportable segments, O&P–Americas and O&P—EAI.
Olefins & Co-products—Ethylene is the most significant petrochemical in terms of worldwide production volume and is the key building block for PE and many other chemicals and plastics. Ethylene is produced by steam cracking hydrocarbons such as ethane, propane, butane and naphtha. This production results in co-products such as aromatics and other olefins, including propylene and butadiene. Ethylene and its co-products are fundamental to many parts of the economy, including the production of consumer products, packaging, housing and automotive components and other durable and nondurable goods.
Polyolefins—Polyolefins such as PE and PP are polymers derived from olefins including ethylene and propylene. Polyolefins are the most widely used thermoplastics in the world and are found in applications and products that enhance the everyday quality of life. Our products are used in consumer, automotive and industrial applications ranging from food and beverage packaging to housewares and construction materials.
Polyethylene—We produce high density polyethylene (“HDPE”), low density polyethylene (“LDPE”) and linear low density polyethylene (“LLDPE”). PE sales accounted for approximately 21%, 17% and 19% of our consolidated revenues in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Polypropylene—We produce PP homopolymers and copolymers. PP sales accounted for approximately 16%, 14% and 15% of our consolidated revenues in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Olefins and Polyolefins—Americas Segment
Overview
Our O&P—Americas segment produces and markets olefins and co-products, polyethylene and polypropylene.
Sales & Marketing / Customers
Most of the ethylene we produce is consumed internally as a raw material in the production of PE and other derivatives, with the balance sold to third party customers, primarily under multi-year contracts.
We use all the propylene we produce in the production of PP, propylene oxide and other derivatives of those products. We also purchase propylene from third parties. In addition to purchases of propylene, we purchase ethylene for resale, when necessary, to satisfy customer demand above our own production levels. Volumes of any of these products purchased for resale can vary significantly from period to period and are typically most significant during extended outages of our own production, such as during planned maintenance. However, purchased volumes have not historically had a significant impact on profits, except to the extent that they replace our lower-cost production.
Most of the ethylene and propylene production from our Channelview, Corpus Christi and La Porte, Texas facilities is shipped via a pipeline system, which has connections to numerous U.S. Gulf Coast consumers. This pipeline system extends from Corpus Christi to Mont Belvieu, Texas. In addition, exchange agreements with other ethylene and co-products producers allow access to customers who are not directly connected to this pipeline system. Some ethylene is shipped by railcar from our Clinton, Iowa facility to our Morris, Illinois facility and some is shipped directly to customers. Propylene from Clinton and Morris is generally shipped by marine vessel, barge, railcar or truck.
5
Table of Contents
In 2020, we added a total of 785 thousand tons of olefins and 1,170 thousand tons of PE capacity at our wholly-owned and joint venture facilities in North America. This capacity is based on our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities. Our PP and PE production is typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers and distributors servicing both the domestic and export markets either under annual contracts or on a spot basis. We have sales offices in various locations in North America and our polyolefins are primarily transported in North America by railcar or truck. Export sales are primarily to customers in Latin America, with sales to Asia expected to increase in the coming years as global supply and demand balances shift. We also consume PP in our PP compounds business, which is managed worldwide by our APS segment.
Joint Venture Relationships
In December 2020, we formed a 50/50 joint venture in Louisiana, which provides us with capacity of approximately 770 thousand tons of ethylene and 445 thousand tons of low density and linear-low density PE production per year. We operate the joint venture assets and market all the production on behalf of the joint venture.
We participate in a joint venture in Mexico, which provides us with capacity of approximately 290 thousand tons of PP production per year. We do not hold a majority interest in or have operational control of this joint venture.
The capacities are based on our percentage ownership of the joint venture’s total capacity.
Raw Materials
Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost to produce ethylene and its co-products. The primary raw materials used in our Americas olefin facilities are natural gas liquids (“NGLs”) and heavy liquids. Heavy liquids include crude oil-based naphtha and other refined products, as well as condensate, a very light crude oil resulting from natural gas production. NGLs include ethane, propane and butane. The use of heavy liquid raw materials results in the production of significant volumes of co-products such as propylene, butadiene and benzene, as well as gasoline blending components, while the use of NGLs results in the production of a smaller volume of co-products.
Our ability to pass on raw material price increases to our customers is dependent on market-driven demand for olefins and polyolefins. Sales prices for products sold in the spot market are determined by market forces. Our contract prices are influenced by product supply and demand conditions, spot prices, indices published in industry publications and, in some instances, cost recovery formulas.
We can manufacture olefins by utilizing a variety of feedstocks, including heavy liquids and NGLs. Technological advances for extracting shale-based oil and gas have led to an increased supply of NGLs, providing a cost advantage over heavy liquids, particularly in the U.S. A plant’s flexibility to consume a wide range of raw materials generally provides an advantage over plants that are restricted in their processing capabilities. Our Americas facilities can process significant quantities of either heavy liquids or NGLs. We estimate that in the U.S. we can produce up to approximately 90% of our total ethylene output using NGLs. Changes in the raw material feedstock mix utilized in the production process will result in variances in production capacities among products. We believe our raw material flexibility in the U.S. is a key advantage in our production of ethylene and its co-products.
Industry Dynamics / Competition
With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price and, to a lesser extent, on product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service. Profitability is affected not only by supply and demand for olefins and polyolefins, but also by raw material costs and price competition among producers, which may intensify due to, among other things, the addition of new capacity. In general, demand is a function of economic growth, including the regional dynamics that underlie global growth trends.
We compete in North America with other large marketers and producers, including global chemical companies, chemical divisions of large oil companies and regional marketers and producers.
6
Table of Contents
Based on published capacity data and including our proportionate share of joint ventures, we believe as of December 31, 2020, we were:
•the second largest producer of ethylene in North America, with ethylene capacity of 6.2 million tons per year, including our share of our Louisiana-based joint venture capacity;
•the third largest producer of PE in North America with 4.1 million tons per year including our share of our Louisiana-based joint venture capacity; and
•the largest producer of PP in North America, with 1.9 million tons per year, including our share of our Mexican joint venture capacity and approximately 280 thousand tons of Catalloy capacity reported within our Advanced Polymer Solutions segment.
Olefins and Polyolefins—Europe, Asia, International Segment
Overview
Our O&P—EAI segment produces and markets olefins and co-products, polyethylene and polypropylene.
Sales & Marketing / Customers
Our ethylene production is primarily consumed internally as a raw material in the production of polyolefins, and we purchase additional ethylene as needed to meet our production needs. Our propylene production is used as a raw material in the production of PP and propylene oxide and derivatives of those products, and we regularly purchase propylene from third parties because our internal needs exceed our internal production.
With respect to PP and PE, our production is typically sold through our sales organization to an extensive base of established customers under annual contracts or on a spot basis and is also sold through distributors. Our polyolefins are primarily transported in Europe by railcar or truck. In 2020, we added a total of 550 thousand tons of olefins, 400 thousand tons of PE and 310 thousand tons of PP at our wholly-owned and joint venture facilities. This capacity is based on our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities.
Our regional sales offices are in various locations, including The Netherlands, Hong Kong, China, India, Australia and the United Arab Emirates. We also operate through a worldwide network of local sales and representative offices in Europe and Asia. Our joint ventures described below typically manage their domestic sales and marketing efforts independently, and we typically operate as their agent for all or a portion of their exports.
Joint Venture Relationships
On September 1, 2020, we established and started-up a 50/50 joint venture in China, which provides us with capacity of 550 thousand tons of ethylene, 400 thousand tons of linear-low density PE and 300 thousand tons of PP capacity. The materials produced at the joint venture facility are expected to be sold in China.
We participate in several manufacturing joint ventures in Saudi Arabia, China, Poland, South Korea, Thailand and The Netherlands. We do not hold majority interests in any of these joint ventures, nor do we have operational control. These ventures provide us with additional annual production capacity of approximately 1.5 million tons of PP, approximately 1.2 million tons of olefins and approximately 820 thousand tons of PE. These capacities are based on our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities.
We generally license our polyolefin process technologies and supply catalysts to our joint ventures through our Technology segment. Some of our joint ventures are able to source cost advantaged raw materials from their local shareholders.
7
Table of Contents
Raw Materials
Raw material cost is the largest component of the total cost for the production of olefins and co-products. The primary raw material used in our European olefin facilities is naphtha; however, we also use advantaged NGLs. We have flexibility to vary the raw material mix and process conditions in our plants in order to maximize profitability as market prices for both feedstocks and products change. The principal raw materials used in the production of polyolefins are propylene and ethylene. In Europe, we have the capacity to produce approximately 50% of the propylene requirements for our European PP production and all of the ethylene requirements for our European PE production. Propylene and ethylene requirements that are not produced internally are generally acquired pursuant to long-term contracts with third party suppliers or via spot purchases.
Our ability to pass through the increased cost of raw materials to customers is dependent on global market demand for olefins and polyolefins. In general, the pricing for purchases and sales of most products is determined by global market forces, including the impacts of foreign exchange rates relative to the pricing of the underlying raw materials, most of which are priced in U.S. dollars. There can be a lag between raw material price changes and contract product price changes that will cause volatility in our product margins.
Industry Dynamics / Competition
With respect to olefins and polyolefins, competition is based on price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service. We compete with regional and multinational chemical companies and divisions of large oil companies. The petrochemical market has been affected by the price volatility of naphtha, the primary feedstock for olefins in the region.
Based on published capacity data and including our proportionate share of our joint ventures, we believe as of December 31, 2020, we were:
•the fifth largest producer of ethylene in Europe with an ethylene capacity of 1.9 million tons per year;
•the largest producer of PE in Europe with 2.2 million tons per year of capacity, including our share of our joint ventures in Poland and The Netherlands; and
•the largest producer of PP in Europe with 2.7 million tons per year of capacity, including our share of our joint ventures in Poland, Belgium and The Netherlands, approximately 265 thousand tons of Catalloy capacity reported within our Advanced Polymer Solutions segment.
Intermediates and Derivatives Segment
Overview
Our I&D segment produces and markets propylene oxide (“PO”) and its derivatives, oxyfuels and related products, and intermediate chemicals such as styrene monomer (“SM”), acetyls, and ethylene oxides and derivatives.
PO and Derivatives—We produce PO through two distinct technologies, one of which yields tertiary butyl alcohol (“TBA”) as the co-product and the other of which yields SM as the co-product. The two technologies are mutually exclusive with dedicated assets for manufacturing either PO/TBA or PO/SM. PO is an intermediate commodity chemical and is a precursor of polyols, propylene glycol, propylene glycol ethers and butanediol. PO and derivatives are used in a variety of durable and consumable items with key applications such as polyurethanes used for insulation, automotive/furniture cushioning, coatings, surfactants, synthetic resins and several other household usages.
8
Table of Contents
Oxyfuels and Related Products—We produce two distinct ether-based oxyfuels, methyl tertiary butyl ether (“MTBE”) and ethyl tertiary butyl ether (“ETBE”). These oxyfuels are produced by converting the TBA co-product of PO into isobutylene and reacting with methanol or ethanol to produce either MTBE or ETBE. Both are used as high-octane gasoline components that help gasoline burn cleaner and reduce automobile emissions. Other TBA derivatives, which we refer to as “C4 chemicals,” are largely used to make synthetic rubber and other gasoline additives.
Intermediate Chemicals—We produce other commodity chemicals that utilize ethylene as a key component feedstock, including SM, acetyls and ethylene oxide derivatives. SM is utilized in various applications such as plastics, expandable polystyrene for packaging, foam cups and containers, insulation products and durables and engineering resins. Our acetyls products comprise methanol, glacial acetic acid (“GAA”) and vinyl acetate monomer (“VAM”). Natural gas (methane) is the feedstock for methanol, some of which is converted to GAA, and a portion of the GAA is reacted with ethylene to create VAM. VAM is an intermediate chemical used in fabric or wood treatments, pigments, coatings, films and adhesives. Ethylene oxide is an intermediate chemical that is used to produce ethylene glycol, glycol ethers and other derivatives. Ethylene oxide and its derivatives are used in the production of polyester, antifreeze fluids, solvents and other chemical products.
Sales & Marketing / Customers
We sell our PO and derivatives through multi-year sales and processing agreements as well as spot sales. Some of our contract sales agreements have cost plus pricing terms. PO and derivatives are transported by barge, marine vessel, pipeline, railcar and tank truck.
We sell our oxyfuels and related products under market and cost-based sales agreements and in the spot market. Oxyfuels are transported by barge, marine vessel and tank truck and are used as octane blending components worldwide outside of the U.S. due to their blending characteristics and emission benefits. C4 chemicals, such as high-purity isobutylene, are sold to producers of synthetic rubber and other chemical products primarily in the U.S. and Europe, and are transported by railcar, tank truck, pipeline and marine shipments.
Intermediate chemicals are shipped by barge, marine vessel, pipeline, railcar and tank truck. SM is sold globally into regions such as North America, Europe, Asia and South America export markets through spot sales and commercial contracts. Within acetyls, methanol is consumed internally to make GAA, used as a feedstock for oxyfuels and related products and also sold directly into the merchant commercial market. GAA is converted with ethylene to produce VAM which is sold worldwide under multi-year commercial contracts and on a spot basis.
Sales of our PO and derivatives, oxyfuels and related products, and intermediate chemicals are made by our marketing and sales personnel, and also through distributors and independent agents in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the Asia-Pacific region.
Joint Venture Relationships
We have two PO joint ventures with Covestro AG, one in the U.S. and one in Europe. We operate four of the U.S. PO production facilities for the U.S. PO joint venture. Covestro’s interest represents ownership of an in-kind portion of the PO production of 680 thousand tons per year. We take, in-kind, the remaining PO production and all co-product production. The parties’ rights in the joint venture are based on off-take volumes related to actual production of PO as opposed to ownership percentages. Covestro also has the right to 50% of the PO and SM production of our European PO joint venture. Our proportional production capacity provided through this venture is approximately 160 thousand tons of PO and approximately 340 thousand tons of SM. We do not share marketing or product sales with Covestro under either of these PO joint ventures.
We also have a joint venture manufacturing relationship in China. This venture provides us with additional production capacity of approximately 50 thousand tons of PO. This capacity is based on our operational share of the joint venture’s total capacity.
9
Table of Contents
Raw Materials
The cost of raw materials is the largest component of total production cost for PO, its co-products and its derivatives. Propylene, isobutane or mixed butane, ethylene and benzene are the primary raw materials used in the production of PO and its co-products. The market prices of these raw materials historically have been related to the price of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, as well as supply and demand for the raw materials.
In the U.S., we obtain a large portion of our propylene, benzene and ethylene raw materials needed for the production of PO and its co-products from our O&P—Americas segment and to a lesser extent from third parties. Raw materials for the non-U.S. production of PO and its co-products are obtained from our O&P—EAI segment and from third parties. We consume a significant portion of our internally-produced PO in the production of PO derivatives.
The raw material requirements not sourced internally are purchased at market-based prices from numerous suppliers in the U.S. and Europe with which we have established contractual relationships, as well as in the spot market.
For the production of oxyfuels, we purchase our ethanol feedstock requirements from third parties, and obtain our methanol from both internal production and external sources. Carbon monoxide and methanol are the primary raw materials required for the production of GAA. We source carbon monoxide from internal production, which can be complemented by purchases from external sources as needed. The methanol required for our downstream production of acetyls is internally sourced from our methanol plants in La Porte, Texas, and Channelview, Texas. Natural gas is the primary raw material required for the production of methanol.
In addition to ethylene, acetic acid is a primary raw material for the production of VAM. We obtain all our requirements for acetic acid and ethylene from our internal production. Historically, we have used a large percentage of our acetic acid production to produce VAM.
Industry Dynamics / Competition
With respect to product competition, the market is influenced and based on a variety of factors, including product quality, price, reliability of supply, technical support, customer service and potential substitute materials. Profitability is affected by the worldwide level of demand along with price competition, which may intensify due to, among other things, new industry capacity and industry outages. Demand growth could be impacted by further development of alternative bio-based methodologies. Our major worldwide competitors include other multinational chemical and refining companies as well as some regional marketers and producers.
Based on published capacity data and including our proportionate share of our joint ventures, we believe as of December 31, 2020, we were:
•the second largest producer of PO worldwide; and
•the second largest producer of oxyfuels worldwide.
Advanced Polymer Solutions Segment
Overview
We formed the APS segment following our acquisition of A. Schulman, Inc. (“A. Schulman”) in August 2018. Our APS segment produces and markets compounding and solutions, such as polypropylene compounds, engineered plastics, masterbatches, colors and powders, engineered composites and advanced polymers, which include Catalloy and polybutene-1 polyolefin resins.
10
Table of Contents
Compounding and Solutions—Our polypropylene compounds are produced from blends of polyolefins and additives and are largely focused on automotive applications. Engineered plastics and engineered composites add value for more specialized high-performance applications used across a variety of industries. Masterbatches are compounds that provide differentiated properties when combined with commodity plastics used in packaging, agriculture and durable goods applications. Specialty powders are largely used to mold toys, industrial tanks and sporting goods such as kayaks. Performance colors provide powdered, pelletized and liquid color concentrates for the plastics industry.
Advanced Polymers—Catalloy and polybutene-1 are unique polymers that can be used within the segment for downstream compounding or can be sold as raw materials to third parties. Catalloy is a line of differentiated propylene-based polymers that add value in packaging applications and construction materials such as the white membranes used in the commercial roofing market. Polybutene-1 is used in both specialty piping and packaging applications.
Sales & Marketing / Customers
Our products are sold through our global sales organization to a broad base of established customers and distributors under contract or on a spot basis. These products are transported to our customers primarily by either truck or bulk rail. The sales of compounding and solutions products accounted for approximately 12% of our consolidated revenues in each of 2020 and 2019 and 8% of consolidated revenue in 2018.
Joint Venture Relationships
We participate in several manufacturing joint ventures in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Thailand, China and Argentina. We hold majority interests and have operational control of the joint ventures in Argentina and Indonesia. We do not hold majority interests in any of the remaining joint ventures, nor do we have operational control. These ventures provide us with additional production capacity of approximately 90 thousand tons of compounding and solutions. These capacities are based on our percentage ownership interest in the joint ventures’ total capacities.
Raw Materials
The principal materials used in the production of our compounding and solutions products are polypropylene, polyethylene, polystyrene, nylon and titanium dioxide. Raw materials required for the production of our compounding and solutions products are obtained from our wholly owned or joint venture facilities and from a number of major plastic resin producers or other suppliers at market-based prices.
The principal raw materials used in the production of advanced polymers are ethylene, propylene and butene-1. Ethylene and propylene requirements that are not produced internally and externally-supplied butene-1 are acquired through long-term contracts with third party suppliers or via spot purchases.
Our ability to pass through the increased cost of raw materials to customers is dependent on global market demand. In general, the pricing for purchases and sales of most products is determined by global market forces.
Industry Dynamics / Competition
With respect to product competition, the market is influenced and based on a variety of factors, including price, product quality, product delivery, reliability of supply, product performance and customer service. We compete with regional and multinational marketers and producers of plastic resins and compounds.
Based on published capacity data and including our proportionate share of our joint ventures, we believe as of December 31, 2020, we were the largest global producer of polypropylene compounds.
11
Table of Contents
Refining Segment
Overview
The primary products of our Refining segment are refined products made from heavy, high-sulfur crude oil and other crude oils of varied types and sources available on the U.S. Gulf Coast. These refined products include gasoline and distillates.
Sales & Marketing / Customers
The Houston refinery’s products are primarily sold in bulk to other refiners, marketers, distributors and wholesalers at market-related prices. Most of the Houston refinery’s products are sold under contracts with a term of one year or less or are sold in the spot market. The Houston refinery’s products generally are transported to customers via pipelines and terminals owned and operated by other parties. The sales of refined products accounted for approximately 16%, 22% and 21% of our total revenues in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Raw Materials
Our Houston refinery, which is located on the Houston Ship Channel in Houston, Texas, has a heavy, high-sulfur crude oil processing capacity of approximately 268 thousand barrels per day on a calendar day basis (normal operating basis), or approximately 292 thousand barrels per day on a stream day basis (maximum achievable over a 24-hour period). The Houston refinery is a full conversion refinery designed to refine heavy, high-sulfur crude oil. This crude oil is more viscous and denser than traditional crude oil and contains higher concentrations of sulfur and heavy metals, making it more difficult to refine into gasoline and other high-value fuel products. While heavy, high-sulfur crude oil has historically been less costly to purchase than light, low-sulfur crude oil, in recent years the price difference has narrowed. U.S. production is predominantly light sweet crude and much of the heavy crude has generally been imported from Canada, Mexico and other global producers, which has at times been subject to supply disruptions.
We purchase the crude oil used as a raw material for the Houston refinery on the open market on a spot basis and under a number of supply agreements with regional producers, generally with terms varying from one to two years.
Industry Dynamics / Competition
Our refining competitors are major integrated oil companies, refineries owned or controlled by foreign governments and independent domestic refiners. Based on published data, as of January 2020, there were 135 operable crude oil refineries in the U.S., and total U.S. refinery capacity was approximately 19 million barrels per day. During 2020, the Houston refinery processed an average of approximately 223 thousand barrels per day of heavy crude oil.
Our refining operations compete for the purchases of crude oil based on price and quality. Supply disruptions could impact the availability and pricing. We compete in gasoline and distillate markets as a bulk supplier of fungible products satisfying industry and government specifications. Competition is based on price and location.
The markets for fuel products tend to be volatile as well as cyclical due to supply and demand fundamentals and changing crude oil and refined product prices. Crude oil prices are impacted by worldwide political events, the economics of exploration and production and refined products demand. Prices and demand for fuel products are influenced by seasonal and short-term factors such as weather and driving patterns, as well as by longer term issues such as the economy, environmental concerns, energy conservation and alternative fuels. Industry fuel products supply is dependent on short-term industry operating capabilities and on long-term refining capacity.
12
Table of Contents
A crack spread is a benchmark indication of refining margins based on the processing of a specific type of crude oil into an assumed selection of major refined products. The Houston refinery generally tracks the Maya 2-1-1 crack spread, which represents the difference between the current month U.S. Gulf Coast price of two barrels of Maya crude oil as set by Petróleos Mexicanos (“Pemex”) and one barrel each of U.S. Gulf Coast Reformulated Gasoline Blendstock for Oxygen Blending (“RBOB”) Gasoline and of U.S. Gulf Coast Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel (“ULSD”). While these benchmark refining spreads are generally indicative of the level of profitability at the Houston refinery and similarly configured refineries, there are many other factors specific to each refinery and the industry in general, such as the value of refinery by-products, which influence operating results. Refinery by-products are products other than gasoline and distillates that represent about one-third of the total product volume, and include coke, sulfur, and lighter materials such as NGLs and crude olefins streams. The cost of Renewable Identification Numbers (“RINs”), which are renewable fuel credits mandated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), can also affect profitability.
Technology Segment
Overview
Our Technology segment develops and licenses chemical and polyolefin process technologies and manufactures and sells polyolefin catalysts. We market our process technologies and our polyolefin catalysts to external customers and also use them in our own manufacturing operations. Over the past three years, approximately 20% to 25% of our catalyst sales were intercompany.
Our polyolefin process licenses are structured to provide a standard core technology, with individual customer needs met by adding customized modules that provide the required capabilities to produce the defined production grade slate and plant capacity. In addition to the basic license agreement, a range of services can also be provided, including project assistance, training, assistance in starting up the plant and ongoing technical support after start-up. We may also offer marketing and sales services. In addition, licensees may continue to purchase polyolefin catalysts that are consumed in the production process, generally under long-term catalyst supply agreements with us.
Research and Development
Our research and development (“R&D”) activities are designed to improve our existing products and processes, and discover and commercialize new materials, catalysts and processes. These activities focus on product and application development, process development, catalyst development and fundamental polyolefin-focused research.
In 2020, 2019 and 2018, our R&D expenditures were $113 million, $111 million and $115 million, respectively. A portion of these expenses are related to technical support and customer service and are allocated to the other business segments. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, approximately 45%, 50% and 45%, respectively, of all R&D costs were allocated to business segments other than Technology.
13
Table of Contents
GENERAL
Intellectual Property
We maintain an extensive patent portfolio and continue to file new patent applications in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2020, we owned over 6,000 patents and patent applications worldwide. Our patents and trade secrets cover our processes, products and catalysts and are significant to our competitive position, particularly with regard to PO, intermediate chemicals, petrochemicals, polymers and our process technologies. While we believe that our intellectual property provides competitive advantages, we do not regard our businesses as being materially dependent upon any single patent, trade secret or trademark. Some of our production capacity operates under licenses from third parties.
Environmental
Most of our operations are affected by national, state, regional and local environmental laws. Matters pertaining to the environment are discussed in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors; Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings; Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 2 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We have made, and intend to continue to make, the expenditures necessary for compliance with applicable laws and regulations relating to environmental, health and safety matters. We incurred capital expenditures of $195 million in 2020 for health, safety and environmental compliance purposes and improvement programs, and estimate such expenditures to be approximately $260 million in 2021 and $250 million in 2022.
While capital expenditures or operating costs for environmental compliance, including compliance with potential legislation and potential regulation related to climate change, cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe they will have a material effect on our competitive position.
While there can be no assurance that physical risks to our facilities and supply chain due to climate change will not occur in the future, we do not believe these risks are material in the near term.
Human Capital
Our success as a company is tied to the passion, knowledge and talent of our global team. We believe in integrity, diversity and fairness, and we focus on creating a work environment that is safe, respectful and inspires employees to strive for excellence. We recognize that individuals cannot succeed alone; we believe in the power of many and place a strong emphasis on teamwork.
We reward performance based on personal, team and company results. We engage in open and ongoing dialogue with employees and their representatives to ensure a proper balance between the best interests of the Company and its employees. At a minimum, we provide all workers with fair wages and uphold all applicable fair wage laws, wherever we work. We never use child, forced, bonded or involuntary labor, and we do not knowingly work with subcontractors or suppliers who use child or forced labor or engage in human trafficking practices. In several of our locations, we partner with employee representatives on initiatives such as health and safety. We use the services of contractors, primarily to assist with non-core business functions, and we require that all contractors adhere to our operational excellence standards and GoalZERO, a comprehensive program to protect the health and safety of our employees and contractors.
14
Table of Contents
Our Code of Conduct sets out our expectations on topics such as respecting fellow employees, anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, trade compliance, anti-trust and competition law, insider trading, sanctions, misconduct and political donations. It is available in 18 languages on our company website. New employees are trained on the Code and all employees complete annual refresher training. In 2020, we adopted a human rights policy that established our standards for workforce health and safety; prevention of discrimination, harassment and retaliation; diversity and inclusion; workplace security; working conditions and fair wages; freedom of association; freely chosen employment; and child labor protections.
Demographics
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 19,200 full-time and part-time employees around the world. Of this total, approximately 8,600 were in the U.S. and Canada and another 8,100 were in Europe. The remainder of our employees are in other global locations.
As of December 31, 2020, approximately 900 of our employees in the U.S. were represented by labor unions. Most of our employees in Europe and Latin America, and some of our employees in Asia Pacific, are subject to staff council or works council coverage or collective bargaining agreements.
Some examples of key programs and initiatives that are focused to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include:
Talent Development and Engagement
We believe in building an engaged, talented workforce by developing skill sets, supporting diversity and ensuring fair employment and work practices. In July 2020, we accelerated our efforts in the area of diversity, equity, and inclusion (“DEI”) with the appointment of a Chief Talent & Diversity Officer, the establishment of a DEI Leadership Council, the development of a multi-year DEI strategy, and the implementation of activities focused on listening to our employees and obtaining their perspectives on DEI.
Employee growth and development are key elements supporting our vision of superior performance. We provide development opportunities for our employees through on-the-job experiences, learning from others, and in-class and online learning. In 2020, we offered more than 308,000 hours of training to our employees through both in-person classes and our online learning management system. We continue the investment in our leadership through Leadership Development programs, including accelerated development academies and robust development planning targeted at our high potential leaders. We encourage high performance and alignment with business goals through our performance management system which includes annual goal setting, continuous performance conversations throughout the year, and a year-end process to measure performance against goals. Employees are measured not only on results delivered, but how they are delivered based on established enterprise-wide competencies.
Safety
We are committed to providing a safe workplace, free from recognized hazards, and we comply with all applicable health and safety laws and recognized standards. Information on occupational health services is provided globally throughout the new hire on-boarding process and offered in various languages dependent on the site location. GoalZERO is our commitment to operating safely and with a goal of zero incidents, zero injuries and zero accidents. We cultivate a GoalZERO mindset with clear standards, regular communication, training, and targeted campaigns and events, including our annual Global Safety Day.
15
Table of Contents
As the COVID-19 pandemic spread around the globe, we continued to operate with three key objectives: protecting the health and safety of our people; ensuring the safety and security of our work locations; and maintaining business continuity with our customers and suppliers. We quickly mobilized to develop a globally coordinated, locally implemented plan to protect our workforce at the beginning of the pandemic, which we have regularly updated as new developments occurred. Among the numerous safety measures and protocols we developed were: strict social distancing and facial coverage, critical personal protective equipment, thoughtful procedures for return to workplaces, and several initiatives to support our employees’ mental health.
Health, wellness, welfare and family resources
Full-time employees at our major offices and manufacturing sites receive competitive benefits which may include, depending on location, the following: basic health and welfare benefits, which include medical coverage; life and accident insurance; business travel accident insurance; disability protection; retirement, savings and pension plans; share programs; and paid time off. Employees at our large sites have access to health services at an on-site clinic on paid work-time. We have defined benefit pension plans that cover employees in the U.S. and various non-U.S. countries. In addition, we provide other post-employment benefits such as early retirement and deferred compensation severance benefits to employees of certain non-U.S. countries.
In 2020, we implemented family-friendly policies that expanded the availability of paid parental leave, provided financial reimbursement for certain adoption expenses, and ensured all employees globally have a minimum of ten paid vacation or personal leave days.
16
Table of Contents
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Our executive officers as of February 25, 2021 were as follows:

								
Name and Age
		
Significant Experience
		
Bhavesh V. (“Bob”) Patel, 54		Chief Executive Officer since January 2015 and member of the Board of Directors since June 2018.
 
Executive Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins–EAI and Technology, with responsibility for EAI Manufacturing, from October 2013 to January 2015.
 
Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins–EAI and Technology from November 2010 to October 2013.

Senior Vice President, Olefins and Polyolefins–Americas from March 2010 to June
2011.
		
Michael C. McMurray, 56		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since November 2019.

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Owens Corning, a global manufacturer of insulation, roofing and fiberglass composites, from August 2012 to November 2019.
		
James Guilfoyle, 50		
Executive Vice President, Advanced Polymer Solutions & Global Supply Chain since July 2018.

Senior Vice President, Global Intermediates & Derivatives and Global Supply Chain from February 2017 to July 2018.
 
Senior Vice President, Global Intermediates and Derivatives from June 2015 to February 2017.
 
Vice President of Global Propylene Oxide and Co-Products from March 2015 to May 2015.
 
Director of Polymer Sales Americas from January 2012 to February 2015.
		
Jeffrey Kaplan, 52		
Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer since March 2015.
 
Deputy General Counsel from December 2009 to March 2015.
		
Kenneth (“Ken”) Lane, 52		
Executive Vice President, Global Olefins and Polyolefins since July 2019.

President, Monomers Division at BASF, a German chemical company, from January 2019 to July 2019.

President, Global Catalysts at BASF from June 2013 to December 2018.
		
17
Table of Contents
								
Name and Age
		
Significant Experience
Torkel Rhenman, 57		
Executive Vice President, Intermediates and Derivatives, and Refining since August 2020.

Executive Vice President, Intermediates & Derivatives from July 2019 to July 2020.

Chief Executive Officer and Director of Lhoist Group, a privately held minerals and mining company, from 2012 to 2017.
		
Kim Foley, 54		
Senior Vice President, HSE, Global Engineering and Turnarounds since August 2020.

Vice President, Health, Safety and Environment from October 2019 to July 2020.

Site Manager at Channelview from May 2017 to October 2019.

Senior Director, Global Supply Chain from January 2016 to May 2017.

Director, Supply Chain, Americas from August 2010 to January 2016.
		
Dale Friedrichs, 57		
Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Global Projects since August 2020.

Vice President, Human Resources from October 2019 to July 2020.

Vice President, Health, Safety, Environment and Security from February 2017 to October 2019.
 
Site Manager of various facilities from January 1995 to February 2017.
		
James Seward, 53		Senior Vice President, Research & Development, Technology and Sustainability since August 2020.

Senior Vice President, Technology Business, Sustainability, and Olefins & Polyolefins, Europe, Asia and International Joint Venture Management from September 2018 to July 2020.

Vice President, Joint Ventures and International Marketing from May 2014 to August 2018.
		
Anup Sharma, 46		
Senior Vice President, Global Business Services since February 2019.

Vice President and GE corporate officer at GE Digital, a software company for industrial businesses, from May 2016 to February 2019.

Global Chief Information Officer at GE Oil & Gas, a division of General Electric that owned investments in the petroleum industry, from 2011 to 2016.
		

18
Table of Contents
Description of Properties
Our principal manufacturing facilities as of December 31, 2020 are set forth below and are identified by the principal segment or segments using the facility. All of the facilities are wholly owned, except as otherwise noted.
								
Location		Segment
		
Americas		
		
Bayport (Pasadena), Texas		I&D
Bayport (Pasadena), Texas(1)
		I&D
Bayport (Pasadena), Texas		O&P–Americas
Channelview, Texas		O&P–Americas
Channelview, Texas(1)(2)
		I&D
Chocolate Bayou, Texas†		O&P–Americas
Clinton, Iowa		O&P–Americas
Corpus Christi, Texas		O&P–Americas
Edison, New Jersey		O&P–Americas
Houston, Texas		Refining
La Porte, Texas(3)
		O&P–Americas
La Porte, Texas(3)
		I&D
Lake Charles, Louisiana		O&P–Americas
Lake Charles, Louisiana(4)
		O&P–Americas
Matagorda, Texas		O&P–Americas
Morris, Illinois		O&P–Americas
Tuscola, Illinois		O&P–Americas
Victoria, Texas†		O&P–Americas
19
Table of Contents
								
Location		Segment
		
Europe		
		
Berre l’Etang, France		O&P–EAI
Botlek, Rotterdam, The Netherlands†		I&D
Brindisi, Italy		O&P–EAI
Carrington, UK†		O&P–EAI
Ferrara, Italy		O&P–EAI
		Technology
Fos-sur-Mer, France†		I&D
Frankfurt, Germany†		O&P–EAI
		Technology
Knapsack, Germany†		O&P–EAI
		APS
Kerpen, Germany		APS
Ludwigshafen, Germany†		Technology
Maasvlakte, The Netherlands(5)†
		I&D
Moerdijk, The Netherlands†		APS
Münchsmünster, Germany		O&P–EAI
Tarragona, Spain(6)†
		O&P–EAI
		APS
Wesseling, Germany		O&P–EAI
		
Asia-Pacific		
		
Geelong, Australia†		O&P–EAI
Panjin, China(7)†
		O&P–EAI
†     The facility is located on leased land.
(1)The Bayport PO/TBA plants and the Channelview PO/SM I plant are held by the U.S. PO joint venture between Covestro and Lyondell Chemical Company. These plants are located on land leased by the U.S. PO joint venture.
(2)Equistar Chemicals, LP operates a styrene maleic anhydride unit and a polybutadiene unit, which are owned by an unrelated party and are located within the Channelview facility on property leased from Equistar Chemicals, LP.
(3)The La Porte facilities are on contiguous property.
(4)The Lake Charles site is owned by the Louisiana joint venture and is located on land leased by the Louisiana joint venture.
(5)The Maasvlakte plant is owned by the European PO joint venture and is located on land leased by the European PO joint venture.
(6)The Tarragona PP facility is located on leased land; the compounds facility is located on co-owned land.
(7)The Panjin facility is owned by the Bora LyondellBasell Petrochemical Co. Ltd joint venture and is located on land leased by the joint venture.

Other Locations and Properties
We maintain executive offices in London, the United Kingdom; Rotterdam, The Netherlands; and Houston, Texas. We maintain research facilities in Lansing, Michigan; Channelview, Texas; Cincinnati, Ohio; Ferrara, Italy and Frankfurt, Germany. Our Asia-Pacific headquarters are in Hong Kong. We also have technical support centers in Bayreuth, Germany; Geelong, Australia and Tarragona, Spain. We have various sales facilities worldwide.
20
Table of Contents
Website Access to SEC Reports
Our Internet website address is http://www.LyondellBasell.com. Information contained on our Internet website is not part of this report on Form 10-K.
Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Alternatively, these reports may be accessed at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.
