Masco Corporation is a global leader in the design, manufacture and distribution of branded home improvement and building products. Our portfolio of industry-leading brands includes BEHR® paint; DELTA® and HANSGROHE® faucets, bath and shower fixtures; KICHLER® decorative and outdoor lighting; LIBERTY® branded decorative and functional hardware; and HOT SPRING® spas. We leverage our powerful brands across product categories, sales channels and geographies to create value for our customers and shareholders.
We believe that our solid results of operations and financial position for 2020 resulted from strong consumer demand for our lower ticket, repair and remodel-oriented products and increased spending on repair and remodel activity, along with our continued focus on our three strategic pillars:
•drive the full potential of our core businesses;
•leverage opportunities across our enterprise; and
•actively manage our portfolio.
In 2020, we completed the divestiture of our Masco Cabinetry business ("Cabinetry"), and completed the acquisitions of Kraus USA Inc. ("Kraus"), Work Tools International Inc. and Elder & Jenks, LLC (collectively "Work Tools"), and SmarTap A.Y Ltd. ("SmarTap"). We also entered into an agreement in November 2020 to purchase a majority stake in Easy Sanitary Solutions B.V. ("ESS"). This transaction closed on January 4, 2021. Additionally in 2020, we continued to return value to our shareholders by repurchasing approximately 18.8 million shares of our common stock and increasing our quarterly dividend by approximately 4 percent.
Our Business Segments
We report our financial results in two segments, our Plumbing Products segment and our Decorative Architectural Products segment, which are aggregated by product similarity. Our Decorative Architectural Products segment is impacted by seasonality and normally experiences stronger sales during the second and third calendar quarters, corresponding with the peak season for repair and remodel activity.
Plumbing Products
The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment sell a wide variety of products that are manufactured or sourced by us.
•Our plumbing products include faucets, showerheads, handheld showers, valves, bath hardware and accessories, bathing units, shower bases and enclosures, sinks and toilets. We sell these products to home center and online retailers and to wholesalers and distributors that, in turn, sell them to plumbers, building contractors, remodelers, smaller retailers and consumers. The majority of our faucet, bathing and showering products are sold primarily in North America and Europe under the brand names DELTA®, BRIZO®, PEERLESS®, HANSGROHE®, AXOR®, KRAUS®, GINGER®, NEWPORT BRASS®, BRASSTECH® and WALTEC®. Our BRISTAN™ and HERITAGE™ products are sold primarily in the United Kingdom.
•We manufacture acrylic tubs, bath and shower enclosure units, and shower bases and trays. Our DELTA, PEERLESS and MIROLIN® products are sold primarily to home center retailers in North America. Our MIROLIN products are also sold to wholesalers and distributors in Canada. Our HÜPPE® shower enclosures and shower trays are sold through wholesale channels primarily in Europe.
•Our spas, exercise pools and fitness systems are manufactured and sold under our HOT SPRING®, CALDERA®, FREEFLOW SPAS®, FANTASY SPAS® and ENDLESS POOLS® brands, as well as under other trademarks. Our spa and exercise pools are sold worldwide to independent specialty retailers and distributors and to online mass merchant retailers. Certain exercise pools are also available on a consumer-direct basis in North America and Europe, while our fitness systems are sold through independent specialty retailers as well as on a consumer-direct basis in some areas.


2

•Included in our Plumbing Products segment are brass, copper and composite plumbing system components and other non-decorative plumbing products that are sold to plumbing, heating and hardware wholesalers, home center and online retailers, hardware stores, building supply outlets and other mass merchandisers. These products are marketed primarily in North America under our BRASSCRAFT®, PLUMB SHOP®, COBRA®, COBRA PRO™ and MASTER PLUMBER® brands and are also sold under private label.
•Within our Plumbing Products segment we develop connected water products that enhance the experience with water in homes and businesses. These systems include touchless activation, voice activation, controlled volume dispensing and provide for monitoring and controlling the temperature and flow of water and are compatible with a wide range of faucets, showerheads and other showering components.
•We also supply high-quality, custom thermoplastic solutions, extruded plastic profiles and specialized fabrications, as well as PEX tubing, to manufacturers, distributors and wholesalers for use in diverse applications that include faucets and plumbing supplies, appliances, oil and gas equipment, building products and automotive components.
We believe that our plumbing products are among the leaders in sales in North America and Europe. Competitors of the majority of our products in this segment include Elkay Manufacturing Company, Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.'s Moen, Rohl and Riobel brands, Kohler Co., Lixil Group Corporation’s American Standard and Grohe brands and Spectrum Brands Holdings, Inc.’s Pfister faucets. Competitors of our spas and exercise pools and systems include Artesian Spas, Jacuzzi and Master Spas brands. Foreign manufacturers competing with us are located primarily in Europe and China. We face significant competition from private label products and digitally native brands. Many of the faucet and showering products with which our products compete are manufactured by foreign manufacturers that contribute to price competition. The businesses in our Plumbing Products segment manufacture products primarily in North America and Europe as well as in Asia and source products from Asia and other regions. Competition for our plumbing products is based largely on brand reputation, product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, breadth of product offering and price.
Many of our plumbing products contain brass, the major components of which are copper and zinc. We have multiple sources, both domestic and foreign, for the raw materials used in this segment. We have encountered price volatility for brass, brass components and any components containing copper and zinc. To help reduce the impact of this volatility, from time to time we may enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers or, occasionally, use derivative instruments. In addition, some of the products in this segment that we import have been and may in the future be subject to duties and tariffs.
Decorative Architectural Products
Our Decorative Architectural Products segment primarily includes architectural coatings, including paints, primers, specialty coatings, stains and waterproofing products, as well as paint applicators and accessories. These products are sold in North America, South America and China under the brand names BEHR®, KILZ®, WHIZZ®, Elder & Jenks® and other trademarks to “do‑it‑yourself” and professional customers through home center retailers and other retailers. Net sales of architectural coatings comprised approximately 33 percent, 31 percent and 30 percent of our consolidated net sales from our continuing operations in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Our BEHR products are sold through The Home Depot, our largest customer overall, as well as this segment’s largest customer. Our Behr business grants Behr brand exclusivity in the retail sales channel in North America to The Home Depot. The granting of exclusivity affects our ability to sell those products and brands to other customers and the loss of this segment’s sales to The Home Depot would have a material adverse effect on this segment’s business and on our consolidated business as a whole.
Our competitors in this segment include large national and international brands such as Benjamin Moore & Co., PPG Industries, Inc.'s Glidden, Olympic, Pittsburgh Paints and PPG brands, The Sherwin‑Williams Company's Minwax, Sherwin-Williams, Thompson’s Water Seal, Valspar and Purdy brands, RPM International, Inc.'s Rust-Oleum and Zinsser brands and the Wooster Brush Company, as well as many regional and other national brands. We believe that brand reputation is an important factor in consumer selection, and that competition in this industry is also based largely on product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, breadth of product offering and price.

3

Titanium dioxide and acrylic resins are principal raw materials in the manufacture of architectural coatings. The price for titanium dioxide can fluctuate as a result of global supply and demand dynamics and production capacity limitations, which can have a material impact on our costs and results of operations in this segment. The price of acrylic resins fluctuates based on the price of its components, which can also have a material impact on our costs and results of operations in this segment. In addition, the prices of crude oil, natural gas and certain petroleum by-products can impact our costs and results of operations in this segment. We have agreements with certain significant suppliers for this segment that are intended to help assure continued supply.
Our Decorative Architectural Products segment includes branded cabinet and door hardware, functional hardware, wall plates, hook and hook rail products, closet organization systems and picture hanging accessories, which are manufactured for us and sold to home center retailers, mass retailers, online retailers, other specialty retailers, original equipment manufacturers and wholesalers. These products are sold under the LIBERTY®, BRAINERD®, FRANKLIN BRASS® and other trademarks. Our key competitors in North America include Amerock Hardware, Richelieu Hardware Ltd., Top Knobs and private label brands. Decorative bath hardware, shower accessories, mirrors and shower doors are sold under the brand names DELTA® and FRANKLIN BRASS® and other trademarks to home center retailers, mass retailers, online retailers, other specialty retailers and wholesalers. Competitors for these products include Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc.'s Moen brand, Gatco Fine Bathware, Kohler Co. and private label brands.
This segment also includes decorative indoor and outdoor lighting fixtures, ceiling fans, landscape lighting and LED lighting systems. These products are sold to home center retailers, online retailers, electrical distributors, landscape distributors and lighting showrooms under the brand names KICHLER® and ÉLAN® and under other trademarks. Competitors of these products include Acuity, FX Luminaire, Generation Brands, Hinkley Lighting, Inc., Hubbell Incorporated's Progress Lighting brand, Hunter Fan Company and private label brands.
Certain products in our Decorative Architectural Products segment contain propylene, methyl methacrylate (MMA), titanium dioxide and zinc. We have multiple sources, both domestic and foreign, for the raw materials used in this segment. We have encountered price volatility for propylene and MMA and, to a lesser extent in this segment, zinc. To help reduce the impact of this volatility, from time to time we may enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers or, occasionally, use derivative instruments. We import certain materials and products for this segment that have been and may in the future be subject to duties and tariffs.
Additional Information
Intellectual Property
We hold numerous U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications, licenses, trademarks, trade names, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing processes. We view our trademarks and other intellectual property rights as important, but do not believe that there is any reasonable likelihood of a loss of such rights that would have a material adverse effect on our present business as a whole.
Laws and Regulations Affecting Our Business
We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign government laws and regulations. For a more detailed description of the various laws and regulations that impact our business, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.
We monitor applicable laws and regulations and incur ongoing expense relating to compliance, however we do not expect that compliance with federal, state, local and foreign regulations, will result in material capital expenditures or have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position.
Human Capital Management
We believe that the performance of our Company is impacted by our human capital management, and as a result we consistently work to attract, select, develop, engage and retain strong, diverse talent. We are focused on three key strategic talent priorities: leadership, diversity, equity and inclusion, and our future workforce. Our Chief Human Resources Officer is responsible for developing and executing our human capital strategy and provides regular updates to our Board of Directors’ Organization and Compensation Committee on our progress toward the achievement of our strategic initiatives. We believe that all of our human capital initiatives work together to assure we have an environment where our employees are engaged, feel a sense of belonging, and can reach their full potential.


4

Leadership
We support and grow our employees by providing continuous development practices and tools that build and strengthen leadership capabilities. Our leadership framework is designed to serve as the foundation for how we select, develop and measure the performance of our leaders. We have also placed a specific focus on building a coaching culture by enabling frequent and candid feedback discussions about performance and development between employees and their managers, across peers, and within teams.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ("DE&I")
We believe a workplace that encourages different voices, perspectives and backgrounds creates better teams, better solutions and more innovation. For the past several years, we have strived to create a culture of inclusion, reduce bias in our talent practices, and invest in and engage with our communities. We are focused on the following three key areas:
•Our workplace: who we are and how it feels to work at Masco
•Our communities: how we can help increase access, equity, and inclusion with our diverse community partners
•Our marketplace: how we represent our consumers and use our buying power to support advancing economic equity
We are refining strategic objectives and expectations within each of these focus areas. We are also developing multiple internal channels to increase communication and opportunity for engagement among our employees. In 2020, we established a global, enterprise DE&I Council and several local councils and employee resource groups at our business units and our corporate headquarters to help implement action plans tailored to their specific needs and challenges.
Future Workforce
We are consistently working to identify the critical capabilities our employees and the organization need to help us achieve our businesses objectives. We leverage our Masco Operating System to ensure our businesses are focused on the right capabilities and are providing the right tools, training and structure to building these new and important skills.
Employee Health and Safety
The safety of our employees is integral to our company. In support of our safety efforts, we identify, assess and investigate incidents and injury data, and each year set a goal to improve key safety performance indicators. We train, promote, consult and communicate with our workforce in this process. In 2020, the Coronavirus Disease 2019 ("COVID-19") pandemic highlighted the importance of employee welfare. Our cross-functional Infectious Illness Response Team reacted quickly to keep our employees safe through the implementation of policies and safety measures that adhered to best practices from the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control.
Our Workforce
At December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 18,000 people.
Available Information
Our website is www.masco.com. Our periodic reports and all amendments to those reports required to be filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This Report is being posted on our website concurrently with its filing with the SEC. Material contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Report. Our reports filed with the SEC also may be found on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
