McDonald’s Corporation, the registrant, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to herein as the "Company." The Company, its franchisees and suppliers, are referred to herein as the "System."
BUSINESS SUMMARY
General
For the year ended December 31, 2020, there were no material changes to the Company's corporate structure or in its method of conducting business. The Company’s reporting segments are aligned with its strategic priorities and reflect how management reviews and evaluates operating performance. Significant reportable segments include the United States ("U.S.") and International Operated Markets ("IOM"). In addition, throughout this report we present the International Developmental Licensed Markets & Corporate segment ("IDL"), which includes markets in over 80 countries, as well as Corporate activities. Effective January 1, 2019, McDonald's changed its global operating structure. Refer to the Segment and Geographic Information section included on page 50 of this Form 10-K for additional information.
Description of business
•General
The Company franchises and operates McDonald’s restaurants, which serve a locally-relevant menu of quality food and beverages in 119 countries. Of the 39,198 restaurants at year-end 2020, 36,521 were franchised, which is 93% of McDonald's restaurants.
McDonald’s franchised restaurants are owned and operated under one of the following structures - conventional franchise, developmental license or affiliate. The optimal ownership structure for an individual restaurant, trading area or market (country) is based on a variety of factors, including the availability of individuals with the entrepreneurial experience and financial resources, as well as the local legal and regulatory environment in critical areas such as property ownership and franchising. The business relationship between McDonald’s and its independent franchisees is supported by adhering to standards and policies and is of fundamental importance to overall performance and to protecting the McDonald’s brand.
The Company is primarily a franchisor and believes franchising is paramount to delivering great-tasting food, locally relevant customer experiences and driving profitability. Franchising enables an individual to be their own employer and maintain control over all employment related matters, marketing and pricing decisions, while also benefiting from the strength of McDonald’s global brand, operating system and financial resources.
Directly operating McDonald’s restaurants contributes significantly to our ability to act as a credible franchisor. One of the strengths of the franchising model is that the expertise from operating Company-owned restaurants allows McDonald’s to improve the operations and success of all restaurants while innovations from franchisees can be tested and, when viable, efficiently implemented across relevant restaurants. Having Company-owned and operated restaurants provides Company personnel with a venue for restaurant operations training experience. In addition, in our Company-owned and operated restaurants, and in collaboration with franchisees, we are able to further develop and refine operating standards, marketing concepts and product and pricing strategies that will ultimately benefit McDonald’s restaurants.
The Company’s revenues consist of sales by Company-operated restaurants and fees from restaurants operated by franchisees. Fees vary by type of site, amount of Company investment, if any, and local business conditions. These fees, along with occupancy and operating rights, are stipulated in franchise/license agreements that generally have 20-year terms. The Company’s Other revenues are comprised of technology fees paid by franchisees, revenues from brand licensing arrangements, and third party revenues for the Dynamic Yield business.
Conventional Franchise
Under a conventional franchise arrangement, the Company generally owns or secures a long-term lease on the land and building for the restaurant location and the franchisee pays for equipment, signs, seating and décor. The Company believes that ownership of real estate, combined with the co-investment by franchisees, enables us to achieve restaurant performance levels that are among the highest in the industry.

McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 3

Franchisees are also responsible for reinvesting capital in their businesses over time. In addition, to accelerate implementation of certain initiatives, the Company may co-invest with franchisees to fund improvements to their restaurants or their operating systems. These investments, developed in collaboration with franchisees, are designed to cater to consumer preferences, improve local business performance, and increase the value of our brand through the development of modernized, more attractive and higher revenue generating restaurants.
The Company requires franchisees to meet rigorous standards and generally does not work with passive investors. The business relationship with franchisees is designed to facilitate consistency and high quality at all McDonald’s restaurants. Conventional franchisees contribute to the Company’s revenue, primarily through the payment of rent and royalties based upon a percent of sales, with specified minimum rent payments, along with initial fees paid upon the opening of a new restaurant or grant of a new franchise. The Company's heavily franchised business model is designed to generate stable and predictable revenue, which is largely a function of franchisee sales, and resulting cash flow streams. As most revenues are based on a percent of sales, the Company expects that consumer sentiment and government regulations as a result of COVID-19 may continue to have a negative impact on revenue in the near term.
Developmental License or Affiliate
Under a developmental license or affiliate arrangement, licensees are responsible for operating and managing the business, providing capital (including the real estate interest) and developing and opening new restaurants. The Company generally does not invest any capital under a developmental license or affiliate arrangement, and it receives a royalty based on a percent of sales, and generally receives initial fees upon the opening of a new restaurant or grant of a new license.
While developmental license and affiliate arrangements are largely the same, affiliate arrangements are used in a limited number of foreign markets (primarily China and Japan) within the International Developmental Licensed Markets segment and a limited number of individual restaurants within the International Operated Markets segment, where the Company also has an equity investment and records its share of net results in Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates.
As both royalty revenues and the Company's share of net results in equity investments are based on sales results, the Company may continue to experience a negative impact to revenues and Equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates as a result of COVID-19 in the near term.
•Supply chain, food safety, and quality
The Company and its franchisees purchase food, packaging, equipment, and other goods from numerous independent suppliers. The Company has established and enforces high food safety and quality standards. The Company has quality centers around the world designed to promote consistency of its high standards. The quality management systems and processes not only involve ongoing product reviews, but also on-site and virtual supplier visits. A Food Safety Advisory Council, composed of the Company’s internal food safety experts, as well as suppliers and outside academia, provides strategic global leadership for all aspects of food safety. We have ongoing programs to educate employees about food safety practices, and our suppliers and restaurant operators participate in food safety trainings where we share best practices on food safety and quality. In addition, the Company works closely with suppliers to encourage innovation and drive continuous improvement. Leveraging scale, supply chain infrastructure and risk management strategies, the Company also collaborates with suppliers toward a goal of achieving competitive, predictable food and paper costs over the long term.
Independently owned and operated distribution centers, approved by the Company, distribute products and supplies to McDonald’s restaurants. In addition, restaurant personnel are trained in the proper storage, handling and preparation of food for customers.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company implemented a framework called Safety+ for enhanced hygiene and safety standards to help re-enforce customer and crew safety. Additionally, the Company worked closely with suppliers on contingency planning for continuous supply so that we were able to continue to operate safe restaurants, and we had no breaks in supply for food, packaging, toys or equipment globally throughout 2020 due to COVID-19.
•Products
McDonald’s restaurants offer a substantially uniform menu, although there are geographic variations to suit local consumer preferences and tastes.
McDonald’s menu includes hamburgers and cheeseburgers, Big Mac, Quarter Pounder with Cheese, Filet-O-Fish, several chicken sandwiches, Chicken McNuggets, wraps, McDonald's Fries, salads, oatmeal, shakes, McFlurry desserts, sundaes, soft serve cones, bakery items, soft drinks, coffee, McCafé beverages and other beverages.
McDonald’s restaurants in the U.S. and many international markets offer a full or limited breakfast menu. Breakfast offerings may include Egg McMuffin, Sausage McMuffin with Egg, McGriddles, biscuit and bagel sandwiches, oatmeal, breakfast burritos and hotcakes.
In addition to these menu items, the restaurants sell a variety of other products during limited-time promotions.
Taste, quality, choice, value and nutrition are important to our customers, and we are continuously evolving our menu to meet our customers' needs, including testing new products on an ongoing basis.
•Marketing
McDonald’s global brand is well known. Marketing, promotional and public relations activities are designed with customers in mind and are focused on promoting the McDonald’s brand and differentiating the Company from its competitors. Marketing and promotional efforts focus on value, quality, food taste, menu choice, nutrition, convenience and the customer experience.
•Intellectual property
The Company owns or is licensed to use valuable intellectual property including trademarks, service marks, patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other proprietary information. The Company considers the "McDonald's" trademark and the Golden Arches Logo to be of material importance to its business. Depending on the jurisdiction, trademarks and service marks generally are valid as long as they are used and/or registered. Patents, copyrights and licenses are of varying durations.
McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 4

•Competition
McDonald’s restaurants compete with international, national, regional and local retailers of traditional, fast casual and other food service competitors. The Company competes in the quick-service restaurant industry on the basis of price, convenience, service, experience, menu variety and product quality in a highly fragmented global restaurant industry.
In measuring the Company’s competitive position, management reviews data compiled by Euromonitor International, a leading source of market data with respect to the global restaurant industry. The Company measures itself using the informal eating out ("IEO") segment information, which is inclusive of the Company’s primary competition of quick-service restaurants. The IEO segment includes the following restaurant categories defined by Euromonitor International: limited-service restaurants (which combines quick-service eating establishments and 100% home delivery/takeaway providers), street stalls or kiosks, cafés, specialist coffee shops, self-service cafeterias and juice/smoothie bars. The IEO segment excludes establishments that primarily serve alcohol and full-service restaurants other than providers with limited table service.
Based on data from Euromonitor International, the global IEO segment was composed of approximately 9 million outlets and generated $1.2 trillion in annual sales in 2019, the most recent year for which data is available. McDonald’s Systemwide 2019 restaurant business accounted for 0.4% of those outlets and 8.4% of the sales.
Management also on occasion benchmarks McDonald’s against the entire restaurant industry, including the IEO segment defined above and all full-service restaurants. Based on data from Euromonitor International, the restaurant industry was composed of approximately 20 million outlets and generated $2.6 trillion in annual sales in 2019. McDonald’s Systemwide restaurant business accounted for 0.2% of those outlets and 3.8% of the sales.
•Environmental matters
The Company prioritizes progress across a range of environmental matters, and endeavors to improve our long-term sustainability and resiliency, which benefits McDonald’s and the communities it serves. The Company monitors environment-related governmental initiatives and consumer preferences, and while we cannot predict the precise nature of how these may evolve, the Company plans to respond in a timely and appropriate manner. Although any impact would likely vary by geographic region and/or market, we believe that the adoption of new regulations may increase costs or operational complexity for the Company.
To guide our management of environmental matters, the Company has developed goals and performance indicators that are updated periodically on the Company’s website, informed by relevant frameworks including the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board. These include goals and initiatives to reduce System greenhouse gas emissions, eliminate deforestation from our global supply chain, responsibly source ingredients and packaging, and increase the availability of recycling in restaurants to reduce waste, which the Company recognizes are increasingly important to customers. The Company also discloses the impacts of environmental risks and opportunities in its annual CDP Climate Change, CDP Forests and CDP Water reports. In recent years, we have made significant progress on our global commitments where we can make a difference at scale and drive industry-wide change.
Actual or perceived effects of changes in climate, weather patterns, water resources, forests or other natural resources, or packaging waste could have a direct or indirect impact on the operations of the System in ways which we cannot fully predict at this time. The Company will continue to assess potential risks and opportunities to analyze possible material impacts to the System as we believe taking action on environmental matters will drive business value in the long-term by ensuring we are managing operational costs in our energy supply, improving the security of supply of our raw materials and reducing our exposure to increasing environmental risks, regulation and taxes.
•Government regulations
The Company has global operations and is therefore subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. Throughout 2020, there were various instances around the world of COVID-19 related government restrictions on operating hours, dine-in capacity and in some cases, mandated full restaurant closures. These government restrictions negatively impacted the Company's revenues. The Company does not believe that compliance with other current government regulations will have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 5

•Human capital management
Purpose, Mission, & Values
Through our size and scale, the Company is embracing and prioritizing our role and commitment to the communities in which we operate through our:
•Purpose to feed and foster communities,
•Mission to create delicious feel-good moments for everyone, and
•Core values that define who we are and how we run our business.
At McDonald's, we are guided by our five core values:
1.Serve – We put our customers and people first;
2.Inclusion – We open our doors to everyone;
3.Integrity – We do the right thing;
4.Community – We are good neighbors; and
5.Family – We get better together.
The Company believes that it is our people, all around the world, who set us apart and bring these values to life on a daily basis.
In addition, the Company’s people strategies aim to create an environment grounded in diversity, equity and inclusion; continually evaluate and evolve compensation and benefits programs, while offering quality training and learning opportunities; and uphold a high standard of health and safety for employees and customers alike.
We encourage you to read more information within McDonald’s “Purpose & Impact” section on the Company’s website that includes additional information regarding our human capital management and other initiatives and is updated periodically as our strategies evolve. Our website is not deemed incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but does provide background for reference.
Our People
The Company’s employees include those in our corporate and other offices as well as Company-owned and operated restaurant employees, totaling approximately 200,000 worldwide as of year-end 2020, of which over 75% are based outside of the U.S. In addition to Company employees, the over two million individuals who work in our independent Franchisee restaurants globally are critical to the Company’s success, enabling us to drive long-term value creation and further our purpose and mission. People are at the cornerstone of our business and an essential part of the McDonald's System – our owner-operators, our suppliers, and the Company.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”)
At McDonald’s, our aspiration is that no matter where you are in the world, when you interact with McDonald’s, inclusivity and equity are evident. We believe that a diverse workforce is critical to McDonald’s success, and we are committed to making this a continued priority for our Company. Our Board of Directors reflects this commitment as half of the 12 members are women or racially diverse, including the Chairman of the Board. With this leadership, the Company recently launched a new global DEI strategy designed to drive accountability across the System to better represent the diverse communities in which McDonald’s operates, to accelerate cultures of inclusion and belonging, and to further dismantle barriers to economic opportunity.
The Company’s enhanced DEI strategy builds on existing initiatives from across the business, including:
•the ongoing initiative to improve the representation of women at all levels of the Company,
•long-standing work designed to encourage franchisees and suppliers to create greater diversity in their own operations,
•upholding human rights and cultivating a respectful workplace that is ethical, truthful and dependable, and
•our commitment to equitable pay among Company employees with comparable job responsibilities, experience, performance and contributions.
While McDonald’s is proud of our more than 65-year history as an employer, we expect our global DEI strategy to represent a step change in how we view equitable opportunity across our System and we are committed to accelerating the representation, inclusion and opportunity for historically underrepresented groups throughout our business. Aligned with our purpose, mission and values, this strategy will shape our future as a leading employer.
Beginning in 2021, the Company is incorporating quantitative human capital management related metrics to annual incentive compensation for its executives. In addition to the Company’s financial performance, executives will be measured on their ability to champion our core values, improve diversity representation within leadership roles for both women and historically underrepresented groups, and create a strong culture of inclusion within the Company.

McDonald's Corporation 2020 Annual Report 6

Workplace Health and Safety
McDonald’s has always focused on protecting the health and safety of our people and our customers. Throughout 2020, in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic, we have made informed decisions with the guidance from health ministries in most of the countries in which we operate, as well as the World Health Organization. As safety, hygiene and customers’ trust and confidence in our restaurants is critical in this environment, the Company has established even greater discipline in restaurant operations to meet those needs. McDonald’s engaged Mayo Clinic, a global leader in serious and complex healthcare, to provide ongoing counsel and expertise on emerging science in infection prevention and control, and to identify best practices to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Over the last year, elevated standards informed by this engagement have been executed in the majority of McDonald’s over 39,000 restaurants, including more than 50 process changes in U.S. restaurants. Encompassed in a framework called Safety+, this effort builds on the Company’s history of safety-first leadership in McDonald’s restaurants, and supplements the work of global markets to help keep customers and crew safe.
Respectful Workplace Environment
Fostering safe, inclusive, and respectful workplaces, wherever we do business, has been integral to the Company for its more than 65 year history. We understand the importance of providing a positive experience in our offices and in the restaurants where everyone is valued. In 2018, we introduced McDonald's Human Rights Policy, which outlines our commitment to respect our people and their rights. Our commitment to respect human rights is also set out in our Standards of Business Conduct which apply to Company employees, and in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which contains our human rights requirements for our global suppliers. Company staff are trained regularly on the Standards and are required to annually certify their understanding of and commitment to upholding them.
Additionally, we recognize that developing respectful workplaces, where everyone’s rights are recognized, is an ongoing process that requires continuous effort and improvement. That’s why we worked with third party experts to strengthen our U.S. discrimination, harassment and anti-retaliation policy and provide enhanced interactive training for corporate staff and U.S. Company-owned restaurant employees. We have shared this policy and training with our franchisees and encourage them to utilize these tools and resources. We also recognize how important it is to provide channels for employees to report human rights concerns. Company employees can raise concerns in many ways, including through an anonymous global channel, the Business Integrity Line – staffed by a live operator from an independent company – 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. This is complemented by additional reporting channels in many markets. We expect our employees and franchisees to uphold human rights and cultivate respectful workplaces which builds trust, protects the integrity of our brand and fuels our success.
Compensation, Benefits, and Talent Development
The compensation and benefits provided to U.S. and internationally-based Company employees, including both corporate staff and Company-owned restaurant employees, is established based upon competitive considerations in the relevant labor market. The amount and type of compensation varies by level of employee as well as their location, and may include some combination of the following (in addition to base pay): cash bonuses, stock-based awards, retirement savings programs, and health and welfare benefits. In addition, Company employees may receive paid time off, family care resources, tuition assistance and flexible work schedules. In 2020, the Company placed a significant emphasis on wellbeing globally, deploying a multitude of new benefits focused on the physical, financial and mental health of our employees. For example, in the U.S., these enhancements included the introduction of new Emotional Wellbeing and Employee Assistance programs.
McDonald’s has a long-standing commitment to provide training, education benefits and career paths, which empower people and the communities we serve. McDonald’s is committed to providing opportunities for people to enhance their skills and fulfill their potential through talent development programs, apprenticeship opportunities, language and technical skill training, and by supporting continuing education. We believe this helps to facilitate talent attraction, career development and retention. Further, McDonald’s Hamburger University has eight campuses around the world to provide training for Company employees as well as franchisees and eligible employees from their organizations. These are just a few examples of how education plays an important role in our business and our communities.
Communities
The Company embraces our role and commitment to the communities we serve. Throughout the past year, McDonald’s rallied together with our suppliers, franchisees and partners, not just to keep restaurants open and running safely, but also to support our communities and first responders as seen through our donations of food and masks. Through the Company’s Youth Opportunity program, we aim to reduce barriers to employment for many at risk young people, through pre-employment job readiness training, employment opportunities, and workplace development programs. We are also proud of the network of over 260 local Chapters of Ronald McDonald House Charities (“RMHC”) spanning over 60 countries and regions that creates, finds and supports programs that directly improve the health and well-being of children and their families. In support of RMHC, in 2020, the Company announced our five-year commitment to RMHC totaling $100 million. The Company will continue to look for ways to utilize our size and scale to create an even bigger impact in the communities we serve in the future.
