As used in this Form 10-K, “MetLife,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” refer to MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1999, its subsidiaries and affiliates.
MetLife is one of the world’s leading financial services companies, providing insurance, annuities, employee benefits and asset management. We hold leading market positions in the United States, Japan, Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
We are also one of the largest institutional investors in the United States with a general account portfolio invested primarily in fixed income securities (corporate, structured products, municipals, and government and agency) and mortgage loans, as well as real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and equity securities.
Our well-recognized brand, globally diversified and market-leading businesses, competitive and innovative product offerings and financial strength and expertise should help drive future growth and enhance shareholder value. Over the course of the next several years, we will continue to execute on our Next Horizon strategy, creating value focusing on the following three pillars:
met-20201231_g1.jpg
											
	●		Focus
											
 	–		Generate strong free cash flow by deploying capital and resources to the highest value opportunities.
											
	●		Simplify
											
 	–		Simplify our business to deliver operational efficiency and an outstanding customer experience.
											
	●		Differentiate
											
 	–		Drive competitive advantage through our brand, scale, talent, and innovation.
MetLife is organized into five segments: U.S.; Asia; Latin America; Europe, the Middle East and Africa (“EMEA”); and MetLife Holdings. In addition, the Company reports certain of its results of operations in Corporate & Other. See “— Segments and Corporate & Other” and Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Company’s segments and Corporate & Other.

5
Table of Contents
met-20201231_g2.jpg
In the United States, we provide a variety of insurance and financial services products, including life, dental, disability, vision, accident & health, capital market investment, property and casualty, guaranteed interest, stable value and annuities.
Outside the United States, we provide life, medical, dental, credit and other accident & health insurance, as well as annuities, endowment and retirement & savings products. We believe these businesses will generally continue to grow more quickly than our United States businesses.

6
Table of Contents
Segments and Corporate & Other
U.S.
Our businesses in the U.S. segment offer a broad range of protection products and services aimed at serving the financial needs of our customers throughout their lives. These products are sold to corporations and their respective employees, other institutions and their respective members, as well as individuals. Our U.S. segment is organized into three businesses: Group Benefits, Retirement and Income Solutions (“RIS”) and Property & Casualty.
Group Benefits
We have built a leading position in the United States group insurance market through long-standing relationships with many of the largest corporate employers in the United States.
Our Group Benefits business offers life insurance, dental, group short- and long-term disability (“LTD”), individual disability, accidental death and dismemberment (“AD&D”) insurance, vision, and accident & health insurance, as well as prepaid legal plans. We also sell administrative services-only (“ASO”) arrangements to some employers. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's acquisition of Versant Health, Inc. (“Versant Health”), a managed vision care company.
We distribute Group Benefits products and services through a sales force primarily comprised of MetLife employees that is segmented by the size of the target customer. Account executives sell either directly to corporate and other group customers or through an intermediary, such as a broker or consultant. Employers have been emphasizing voluntary products and, as a result, we have increased our focus on communicating and marketing to employees in order to further foster sales of those products.
We have entered into several operating joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties to expand opportunities to market and distribute Group Benefits products and services. We also sell our Group Benefits products and services through sponsoring associations and affinity groups and provide life, dental, accident & health, and vision coverage to certain employees of the U.S. Government. We have longstanding relationships with these employees and continue to cultivate and expand them through additional product offerings.
Group Benefits business quarterly claims experience may vary, as seasonal illnesses effect mortality and morbidity and due to utilization rate fluctuation in our non-medical health businesses. Annual benefit renewal implementation, enrollment, and marketing costs normally elevate Group Benefits business’ expenses in the fourth quarter.
7
Table of Contents
					
Major Products
Term Life Insurance	A guaranteed benefit upon the death of the insured for a specified time period in return for the periodic payment of premiums. Premiums may be guaranteed at a level amount for the coverage period or may be non-level and non-guaranteed. Term contracts expire without value at the end of the coverage period when the insured party is still living.
Variable Life Insurance	Insurance coverage through a contract that gives the policyholder flexibility in investment choices and, depending on the product, in premium payments and coverage amounts, with certain guarantees. Premiums and account balances can be directed by the policyholder into a variety of separate account investment options or directed to the Company’s general account. In the separate account investment options, the policyholder bears the entire risk of the investment results. With some products, by maintaining certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.
Universal Life Insurance	Insurance coverage on the same basis as variable life, except that premiums, and the resulting accumulated balances, are allocated only to the Company’s general account. With some products, by maintaining a certain premium level, policyholders may have the advantage of various guarantees that may protect the death benefit from adverse investment experience.
Dental 	Insurance and ASO arrangements that assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining oral health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses.
Disability 	Insurance and ASO arrangements for groups and individuals to provide benefits for income replacement, payment of business overhead expenses or mortgage protection, in the event of the disability of the insured.
Accident & Health Insurance	Accident, critical illness or hospital indemnity coverage to the insured.
Vision 	
Insurance, (and effective with our acquisition of Versant Health through ASO arrangements, managed eye health and vision care solutions) to assist employees, retirees and their families in maintaining vision health while reducing out-of-pocket expenses. Offered to commercial groups, individuals, health plans and government sponsored programs through a nationwide provider network, retail optical chains and online eyewear providers.
Retirement and Income Solutions
Our RIS business provides funding and financing solutions that help institutional customers mitigate and manage liabilities primarily associated with their employee benefit programs using a spectrum of life and annuity-based insurance and investment products.
We distribute RIS products and services through dedicated sales teams and relationship managers primarily comprised of MetLife employees. We may sell products directly to benefit plan sponsors and advisors or through brokers, consultants or other intermediaries. In addition, these sales professionals work with individual, group and global distribution areas to better reach and service customers, brokers, consultants and other intermediaries.
					
Major Products
Stable Value Products	
• General account guaranteed interest contracts (“GICs”) are designed to provide stable value investment options within tax-qualified defined contribution plans by offering a fixed maturity investment with a guarantee of liquidity at contract value for participant transactions.
 
• Separate account GICs are available to defined contribution plan sponsors by offering market value returns on separate account investments with a general account guarantee of liquidity at contract value.

•Synthetic GICs or “wraps” are contracts available only to the sponsor of a participant-directed defined contribution plan. The contract “wraps” a portfolio of investments owned by the plan to provide a guarantee that plan participants will always be able to transact in their accounts at contract value. Generally, a wrap contract means that participants will not experience negative returns.
                                    
• Private floating rate funding agreements are generally privately-placed, unregistered investment contracts issued as general account obligations with interest credited based on a specified rate, such as the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). These agreements are used for money market funds, securities lending cash collateral portfolios and short-term investment funds.
8
Table of Contents
					
Pension Risk Transfers	
General account and separate account annuities are offered in connection with defined benefit pension plans which include single premium buyouts allowing for full or partial transfers of pension liabilities.

• General account annuities include nonparticipating group contract benefits purchased for retired employees or active employees covered under terminating or ongoing pension plans. They also include longevity reinsurance contracts associated with the United Kingdom (the “U.K.”) risk transfer market, which provide fee income (including risk fees) in exchange for assuming longevity risk from pension plans insured by third parties. Premiums for U.K. longevity products (which incorporate this fee) are generally paid over the duration of the contract as opposed to a lump sum.
 
• Separate account annuities include both participating and non-participating group contract benefits. Participating contract benefits are purchased for retired, terminated, or active employees covered under active or terminated pension plans. The assets supporting the guaranteed benefits for each contract are held in a separate account, however, the Company fully guarantees all benefit payments. Non-participating contracts have economic features similar to our general account product, but offer the added protection of an insulated separate account. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), these annuity contracts are treated as general account products.
Institutional Income Annuities	General account contracts that are guaranteed payout annuities purchased for employees upon retirement or termination of employment. Contracts can be life or non-life contingent non-participating contracts which do not provide for any loan or cash surrender value and, with few exceptions, do not permit future considerations.
Structured Settlements	
Customized annuities designed to serve as an alternative to a lump sum payment in a lawsuit initiated because of personal injury, wrongful death, or a workers’ compensation claim or other claim for damages. Surrenders are generally not allowed, although commutations are permitted in certain circumstances. Guaranteed payments consist of life contingent annuities, term certain annuities and lump sums.
Capital Markets Investment Products	
• Funding agreement-backed notes are offered in medium term note programs, under which funding agreements are issued to special-purpose trusts that issue marketable notes in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies. The proceeds of these note issuances are used to acquire funding agreements with matching interest and maturity payment terms from certain subsidiaries of MetLife, Inc. The notes are underwritten and marketed by major investment banks’ broker-dealer operations and are sold to institutional investors.

• Funding agreement-backed commercial paper is issued by a special-purpose limited liability company which deposits the proceeds under a master funding agreement issued to it by Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (“MLIC”). The commercial paper is issued in U.S. dollars or foreign currencies, receives the same short-term credit rating as MLIC and is marketed by major investment banks’ broker-dealer operations.

• Funding agreements are issued by certain of our insurance subsidiaries to regional Federal Home Loan Banks (“FHLB”) and to a subsidiary of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (“Farmer Mac.”)
Other Products and Services	
Specialized life insurance products and funding agreements designed specifically to provide solutions for funding postretirement benefits and company-, bank- or trust-owned life insurance used to finance nonqualified benefit programs for executives.

Property & Casualty
Our Property & Casualty business offers personal lines of property and casualty insurance, including private passenger automobile, homeowners’ and personal excess liability insurance. In December 2020, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its wholly-owned subsidiary, Metropolitan Property and Casualty Insurance Company and certain of its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively “MetLife P&C”) to Farmers Group, Inc. Also, the Company and the Farmers Exchanges have established a 10-year strategic partnership through which the Farmers Insurance Group will offer its personal line products on MetLife’s U.S. Group Benefits platform which will commence when the transaction closes. For further information on the pending disposition, reported as held-for-sale, see Notes 1 and 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
9
Table of Contents
We market and sell Property & Casualty products through independent agents, property and casualty specialists and brokers.
We are a leading provider of personal lines property and casualty insurance products offered to employees at their employer’s worksite. Marketing representatives market personal lines property and casualty insurance products to employers through a variety of means, including broker referrals and cross-selling to group customers. Once permitted by the employer, MetLife commences marketing efforts to employees, enabling them to purchase coverage and to request payroll deduction over the telephone.
					
Major Products
Personal Auto Insurance	Coverage for private passenger automobiles, utility automobiles and vans, motorcycles, motor homes, antique or classic automobiles, trailers, liability, uninsured motorist, no fault or personal injury protection, as well as collision and comprehensive insurance.
Homeowners’ Insurance	Protection for homeowners, renters, condominium owners and residential landlords against losses arising out of damage to dwellings and contents from a wide variety of perils, as well as coverage for liability arising from ownership or occupancy.
Asia
Our Asia segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations, as well as to other institutions, and their respective employees.
We operate in nine jurisdictions throughout Asia, with our largest operation in Japan. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's sale of its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, MetLife Limited and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company of Hong Kong Limited (collectively, “MetLife Hong Kong”).
Our Asia operations are geographically diverse encompassing both developed and emerging markets. We market our products and services through a range of proprietary and third-party distribution channels.
In Japan, our digitally-enabled face-to-face channels, along with bancassurance and direct marketing, continue to be critical to our overall distribution strategy. Our competitive advantage in bancassurance is based on robust distribution relationships with Japan’s very large banks, trust banks and various regional banks. Outside of Japan, our distribution strategies vary by market and leverage a combination of career and independent agencies, bancassurance and direct marketing (including inbound and outbound telemarketing, online lead generation and sales). In select markets, we also use independent brokers and our employee sales force to sell group products.

					
Major Products
Life Insurance	Whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products.
Accident & Health Insurance	Full range of accident & health products, including medical reimbursement, hospitalization, cancer, critical illness, disability, income protection, personal accident coverage and group health products.
Retirement and Savings	Fixed and variable annuities, as well as regular savings products.

10
Table of Contents
Latin America
Our Latin America segment offers a broad range of products to both individuals and corporations and other institutions (including local, state and federal governments) and their respective employees. We offer government employees life, medical insurance, as well as retirement and savings, and other products, and periodically submit bids to do so.
Our largest operations are in Mexico and Chile. We market our products and services through a multi-channel distribution strategy which varies by geographic region and stage of market development.
We have an exclusive and captive agency distribution network which sells a variety of individual life, accident & health, and pension products. Our direct marketing channel includes sponsors and telesales representatives selling mainly accident & health and individual life products directly to consumers. We also work with brokers and independent agents on sales of group and individual life, accident & health, group medical, dental and pension products, and worksite marketing.
					
Major Products
Life Insurance	Whole and term life, endowments, universal and variable life, as well as group life products.
Retirement and Savings	
Fixed annuities and pension products. Fixed income annuities provide for both asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Our savings-oriented pension products are primarily offered in Chile under a mandatory privatized social security system. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's sale of one of its wholly-owned Argentinian subsidiaries, MetLife Seguros de Retiro S.A. (“MetLife Seguros de Retiro”).
Accident & Health Insurance	Group and individual major medical, accidental, and supplemental health products, including AD&D, hospital indemnity, medical reimbursement, and medical coverage for serious medical conditions, as well as dental products.
Credit Insurance	Policies designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death.
11
Table of Contents
EMEA
Our EMEA segment offers products to individuals, corporations, other institutions, and their respective employees. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company's disposition of Joint-stock Company MetLife Insurance Company (“MetLife Russia”).
We operate across EMEA in both developed (Western Europe) and emerging (Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa) markets. Our largest operations are in the U.K., Turkey and the Gulf region. In more mature markets, we focus our strategy on our preferred market segments to play a “niche” role. We also have a strong market presence in emerging markets leveraging a multi-channel distribution strategy.
Our businesses in EMEA use captive and independent agency, independent brokerage, bancassurance, corporate solutions and direct-to-consumer distribution channels.
					
Major Products
Life Insurance	Traditional and non-traditional life insurance products, such as whole and term life, mortgage protection, endowments and variable life products, as well as group term life programs in most markets.
Accident & Health Insurance	Individual and group personal accident and supplemental health products, including AD&D, hospital indemnity, scheduled medical reimbursement plans, and coverage for serious medical conditions. In addition, we provide individual and group major medical coverage in select markets.
Retirement and Savings	
Variable and fixed annuities, micro constant proportion portfolio insurance and pension products, including group pension programs in select markets.

Credit Insurance	Designed to fulfill certain loan obligations in the event of the policyholder’s death. Non-life coverage is also provided for involuntary loss of employment coverage in certain markets.
MetLife Holdings
This segment consists of operations relating to products and businesses that we no longer actively market in the United States. These include variable, universal, term and whole life insurance, variable, fixed and index-linked annuities, and long-term care insurance. It also includes assumed variable annuity guarantees from our former operating joint venture in Japan.
					
Major Products
Variable, Universal and Term Life Insurance	Similar to products offered by our Group Benefits business, except that these products were historically marketed to individuals through various retail distribution channels. For a description of these products, see “— U.S. — Group Benefits.”
Whole Life Insurance	A benefit upon the death of the insured in return for the periodic payment of a fixed premium over a predetermined period. Whole life insurance includes policies that provide a participation feature in the form of dividends. Policyholders may receive dividends in cash, or apply them to increase death benefits, increase cash values available upon surrender or reduce the premiums required to maintain the contract in-force.
Variable Annuities 	Asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Variable annuities allow the contractholder to allocate deposits into various investment options in a separate account, as determined by the contractholder. In certain variable annuity products, contractholders may also choose to allocate all or a portion of their account to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Contractholders may also elect certain minimum death benefit and minimum living benefit guarantees for which additional fees are charged and where asset allocation restrictions may apply.
Fixed and Indexed-Linked Annuities
	Fixed annuities provide for asset accumulation and asset distribution needs. Deposits made into deferred annuity contracts are allocated to the Company’s general account and are credited with interest at rates we determine, subject to specified minimums. Fixed income annuities provide a guaranteed monthly income for a specified period of years and/or for the life of the annuitant. Additionally, the Company has issued indexed-linked annuities which allow the contractholder to participate in returns from equity indices.
Long-term Care 	Protection against the potentially high costs of long-term health care services. Generally pay benefits to insureds who need assistance with activities of daily living or have a cognitive impairment.
12
Table of Contents
Corporate & Other
Corporate & Other contains various start-up, developing and run-off businesses. Also included in Corporate & Other are: the excess capital, as well as certain charges and activities, not allocated to the segments (including external integration and disposition costs, internal resource costs for associates committed to acquisitions and dispositions and enterprise-wide strategic initiative restructuring charges), interest expense related to the majority of the Company’s outstanding debt, expenses associated with certain legal proceedings and income tax audit issues, the elimination of intersegment amounts (which generally relate to affiliated reinsurance, investment expenses and intersegment loans, bearing interest rates commensurate with related borrowings), and the Company’s investment management business (through which the Company provides public fixed income, private capital and real estate investment solutions to institutional investors worldwide).
Policyholder Liabilities
We establish, and carry as liabilities, actuarially determined amounts that are calculated to meet policy obligations when a policy matures or is surrendered, an insured dies or becomes disabled or upon the occurrence of other covered events, or to provide for future annuity payments. Our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. For life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. We establish liabilities for claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of losses and liabilities incurred. Amounts for actuarial liabilities are computed and reported on the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP. For more details on policyholder liabilities see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Summary of Critical Accounting Estimates — Liability for Future Policy Benefits” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Policyholder Liabilities.”
MetLife, Inc.’s insurance subsidiaries, including affiliated captive reinsurers, establish statutory reserves under methods prescribed by insurance laws. These reserves are reported as liabilities, and we expect them to be sufficient to meet policy and contract obligations, when taken together with expected future premiums and interest at assumed rates. Statutory reserves and actuarial liabilities for future policy benefits reported under GAAP generally differ due to the difference in accounting requirements.
U.S. state insurance laws and regulations require certain MetLife entities to submit an annual opinion and memorandum of a qualified actuary. In it, the qualified actuary states that the statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts recorded in support of specified policies and contracts, and the assets supporting such statutory reserves and related actuarial amounts, adequately provide for the anticipated cash flow required to meet contractual obligations and related expenses.
Insurance regulators in many of the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate require certain MetLife entities to prepare and submit a sufficiency analysis of the reserves presented in the locally required regulatory financial statements. See “— Regulation — Insurance Regulation — Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis.”
Underwriting and Pricing
We use a variety of underwriting and pricing management controls. Our Global Risk Management Department develops product pricing standards and oversees underwriting practices in MetLife’s insurance businesses. We also regularly conduct experience studies to monitor assumptions against expectations, impose formal new product approval processes, periodically update product profitability studies, and use reinsurance to manage our exposures, as appropriate. See “— Reinsurance Activity.”
Underwriting
Our underwriters and actuaries use detailed underwriting policies, guidelines and procedures to assess and quantify insurance risks, and determine the type and the amount of risk we are willing to accept.
Insurance underwriters consider an applicant’s medical history and other factors such as financial profile, foreign travel, vocations and alcohol, drug and tobacco use. Group insurance underwriters generally evaluate the risk characteristics of the prospective insured group, but may underwrite members of a group on an individual basis for certain voluntary products and coverages. Our own employees generally perform our underwriting, but intermediaries review certain policies under guidelines established by us. Generally, we are not obligated to accept any risk or group of risks from, or to issue a policy or group of policies to, any employer or intermediary. We review requests for coverage on their merits and issue policies only after we have examined and approved the particular risk or group under our underwriting guidelines.
13
Table of Contents
We periodically review all our underwriting to maintain high standards of quality and consistency. Our reinsurers generally have the right to audit our underwriting.
We use underwriting policies, guidelines, philosophies, and strategies that we intend to be competitive and suitable for the customer, the agent and us, to facilitate quality sales, and to serve our customers’ needs while supporting our financial strength and business objectives. We aim to ensure that underwriting risk levels are appropriately reflected in our product pricing.
For our Property & Casualty business, our underwriting function has six principal aspects: evaluating potential voluntary and worksite employer accounts and independent agencies; establishing guidelines for the binding of risks; reviewing coverage bound by agents; underwriting potential insureds, on a case by case basis, presented by agents outside the scope of their binding authority; pursuing information necessary in certain cases to enable issuance of a policy within our guidelines; and ensuring that renewal policies continue to be written at rates commensurate with risk. Subject to very few exceptions, agents in each of the distribution channels have binding authority for risks which fall within our published underwriting guidelines. Risks falling outside the underwriting guidelines may be submitted for approval to the underwriting department; alternatively, agents in such a situation may call the underwriting department to obtain authorization to bind the risk themselves. In most states, we generally have the right within a specified period (usually the first 60 days) to cancel any policy.
We continually review our underwriting guidelines in light of applicable regulations and to ensure that our policies remain competitive, support our marketing strategies and profitability goals, and otherwise remain appropriate.
Pricing
Product pricing reflects our globally-consistent standards. Global Risk Management and regional finance and product teams’ price and oversee all of our insurance businesses. We base our pricing on the expected benefits payout which we calculate through the use of assumptions for mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency and investment returns and macroeconomic factors such as inflation. We price investment-oriented products based on factors such as investment returns, expenses, persistency, optionality, and possible variability of results.
Our pricing of certain products may include prospective and retrospective experience rating features. For prospective experience rating, we evaluate past experience to determine future premium rates and we bear all prior year gains and losses. For retrospective experience rating, we evaluate past experience to determine our cost of providing insurance for the customer in light of any features that allow us to recoup certain losses or distribute certain gains back to the policyholder based on prior years’ experience.
We base our rates for group benefit products on anticipated earnings and expenses for the book of business. We generally re-evaluate renewals annually or biannually and re-price products to reflect our experience on such products.
We price RIS products on demand. Our pricing reflects our expected investment returns, as well as mortality, longevity and expense assumptions. RIS business is generally nonparticipating and illiquid, as policyholders have few or no options or contractual rights to cash values. However for our stable value business, pricing reflects the contractholders ability to withdraw at book value over a period of time as well as our ability to reset rates periodically.
We generally must receive regulatory approval of rates for individual life insurance products. Such rates are highly regulated, even where we are not required to obtain advance regulatory approval. We generally renew such products annually, and they may include pricing terms that are guaranteed for a certain period of time.
We price individual disability income products based on anticipated results by occupation.
Our rates for fixed and variable annuity products are also highly regulated, and we also generally must receive regulatory approval of them. Such products generally include penalties for early withdrawals and policyholder benefit elections to tailor benefits to policyholder needs. We periodically reevaluate the costs of such options and adjust pricing levels on our guarantees. We may also reevaluate the type and level of guarantee features we offer.
14
Table of Contents
For our Property & Casualty business, our ability to set and change rates is subject to regulatory oversight. Rates for our major lines of property and casualty insurance are based on our proprietary database, rather than relying on rating bureaus. We determine prices in part from a number of variables specific to each risk. The pricing of personal lines insurance products takes into account, among other things, the expected frequency and severity of losses, the costs of providing coverage (including the costs of acquiring policyholders and administering policy benefits and other administrative and overhead costs such as reinsurance), competitive factors and profit considerations. The major pricing variables for personal lines insurance include characteristics of the insured property, such as age, make and model or construction type, as well as characteristics of the insureds, such as driving record and loss experience, and the insured’s personal financial management. As a condition of our license to do business in each state, we, like all other personal lines insurers, are required to write or share the cost of private passenger automobile and homeowners insurance for higher risk individuals who would otherwise be unable to obtain such insurance. This “involuntary” market, also called the “shared market,” is governed by the applicable laws and regulations of each state, and policies written in this market are generally written at rates higher than standard rates and typically afford less coverage.
We continually review our pricing guidelines in light of applicable regulations and to ensure that our policies remain competitive, support our marketing strategies and profitability goals, and otherwise remain appropriate.
Reinsurance Activity
We enter into reinsurance agreements primarily as a purchaser of reinsurance for our various insurance products. We also provide reinsurance for some third parties’ insurance products. We participate in reinsurance in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to significant risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. Our reinsurance covers individual risks, group risks, or defined blocks of business, primarily on a coinsurance, yearly renewable term, excess, or catastrophe excess basis. The extent of our retained risks depends on our risk evaluation, subject, in certain circumstances, to maximum retention limits based on our risk appetite. We also cede first dollar mortality risk under certain contracts. We reinsure both mortality and other risks. We obtain reinsurance for capital requirement purposes and when its economic impact makes it appropriate to do so.
We also reinsure for risk and capital management purposes among affiliates, including affiliated captive reinsurers. Captive reinsurers are affiliated insurance companies licensed as such under the Special Purpose Financial Captive law adopted by several states, including Vermont and South Carolina. Captive insurers’ very narrow business plans restrict most or all of their activity to reinsuring business from their affiliates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Affiliated Captive Reinsurance Transactions.”
For information regarding reinsurance by segment, our catastrophic coverage, and ceded reinsurance recoverable balances, included in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables on the consolidated balance sheets, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Regulation
Overview
In the United States (“U.S.”), state regulators primarily regulate our life insurance companies, with additional federal regulation of some products and services. The insurance holding company laws of various U.S. jurisdictions apply to MetLife, Inc. and its U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Furthermore, consumer protection laws, privacy, anti-money laundering, securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulations, environmental and unclaimed property laws and regulations, and the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) also apply to some of MetLife’s operations, products and services.
Outside of the U.S., insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which our insurance businesses are located or operate principally regulate those businesses. In addition, securities, pension, and other authorities oversee our investment and pension companies where they operate. Regulators also subject our non-U.S. insurance businesses to current and developing solvency regimes, which impose various capital and other requirements. Additionally, regulators may enhance their capital standards, enhance their supervision, and impose additional non-U.S. and global regulatory initiatives.
We expect the scope and extent of regulation and regulatory oversight generally to continue to increase. The regulatory environment and changes in laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate could materially harm our results of operations.
15
Table of Contents
Insurance Regulation
Insurance regulation generally aims to protect policyholders and ensure insurance company solvency. Insurance regulators increasingly seek information about the potential impact of activities on holding company systems as a whole, and some jurisdictions have asserted “group-wide” supervision, including model laws and regulations developed through the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ (“NAIC”) Solvency Modernization Initiative. See “— National Association of Insurance Commissioners” regarding group-wide supervision.
Each of MetLife’s insurance subsidiaries is licensed and regulated in each jurisdiction where it conducts insurance business. The extent of such regulation varies, but most jurisdictions regulate the financial aspects and business conduct of insurers through broad administrative powers with respect to, amongst other things:
•licensing companies and agents to transact business;
•calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements;
•mandating certain insurance benefits;
•regulating certain premium rates;
•reviewing and approving certain policy forms, including required policyholder disclosures;
•regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states or local authorities benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners;
•regulating advertising;
•protecting and safeguarding personal information and other sensitive data, including through cybersecurity standards;
•establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards;
•specifying the conditions under which a ceding company can take credit for reinsurance in its statutory financial statements (i.e., reduce its reserves by the amount of reserves ceded to a reinsurer);
•fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts;
•adopting and enforcing sales standards with respect to the sale of annuities and other insurance products;
•approving changes in control of insurance companies;
•restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and
•regulating the types and amounts of investments.
Each insurance subsidiary must file reports, generally including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which it does business. Such authorities also periodically examine its operations and accounts. These subsidiaries must also file, and in many jurisdictions and in some lines of insurance obtain regulatory approval of, rules, rates, and policy forms relating to the insurance written in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
Insurance, securities, and other regulatory authorities, other law enforcement agencies, and attorneys general, review MetLife, Inc. and its insurance subsidiaries for compliance with laws and regulations regarding the conduct of our insurance and securities businesses. We cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
16
Table of Contents
In 2020, many government actors and insurance regulators issued regulations, bulletins, directives and guidance in connection with the novel coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic (the “COVID-19 Pandemic”), some of which have since expired. These encourage, request or direct health, life, and property and casualty insurance companies to waive cost-sharing for coronavirus COVID-19 testing, cover telehealth services, provide extended grace periods for premium payments, forbear on the cancellation or non-renewal of policies due to non-payment of premium, expand coverage for state-mandated disability and family leave benefits to address COVID-19-related events, and provide other policyholder accommodations. For example, the New York State Department of Financial Services ("NYDFS") required life insurance- or annuity- authorized insurers to extend premium and fee payment grace periods to 90 days for policyholders who demonstrated COVID-19 Pandemic-related financial hardship. The NYDFS also prohibited New York licensed insurers from imposing any late fees on or reporting policyholders to a credit reporting or debt collection agency for failure to timely pay any life or annuity premiums, and required such insurers to allow policyholders to pay the premium over a 12-month period. Insurers were required to accept a policyholder’s written attestation as proof of financial hardship as a result of the COVID-19 Pandemic.
U.S. Federal Initiatives
U.S. federal initiatives often affect our business in a variety of ways, including regulation of financial services, securities, derivatives, pensions, health care, money laundering, foreign sanctions and corrupt practices, and taxation. In addition, legislators and policymakers propose various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Changes in Laws or Regulation, or in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies, May Reduce Our Profitability, Limit Our Growth, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us.”
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank”) increased the potential federal role in regulating businesses such as ours, including in the following ways:
•The Financial Stability Oversight Council may designate certain financial companies as non-bank systemically important financial institutions (“non-bank SIFI”) subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve Board”) and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (collectively with the Federal Reserve Board, the “Federal Reserve”).
•The Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury may participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the U.S., collect information about the insurance industry, and recommend prudential standards.
•If an insurance holding company such as MetLife, Inc. or another non-insurance financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, and regulators determined that this would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the U.S., then the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) may liquidate such a company as receiver. In that case, the Bankruptcy Code, which ordinarily governs liquidations, would not apply. The FDIC’s purpose would be to mitigate the systemic risks the institution’s failure poses. This is a different objective from that of a bankruptcy trustee under the Bankruptcy Code. In such a liquidation, the holders of such company’s debt could in certain respects be treated differently than under the Bankruptcy Code. The FDIC has established rules relating to the priority of creditors’ claims and the potentially dissimilar treatment of similarly situated creditors. These provisions could apply to some financial institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our investment portfolios. However, state insurance laws would continue to apply to an insurance company resolution.
•Dodd-Frank provisions may also affect the investments and investment activities of MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including imposing federal regulation of such activities.
Dodd-Frank and its implementing regulations have changed since the law was adopted. As a result of these changes, and potential changes, we cannot identify all the risks and opportunities, if any, they pose to our businesses. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Changes in Laws or Regulation, or in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies, May Reduce Our Profitability, Limit Our Growth, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us.”
17
Table of Contents
The federal government's 2020 response to the COVID-19 pandemic has affected us. For example, the U.S. federal government established paid sick leave and expanded other leave laws to cover certain COVID-19 Pandemic related events. The U.S. federal government also added certain tax-favored withdrawals and increased loan withdrawal limitations from eligible retirement plans, and temporarily waived required minimum distribution rules for qualified retirement plan participants and Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRA”) owners. We also granted concessions to certain of our commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loan borrowers, including payment deferrals and other loan modifications, as well as to certain of our lessees (operating and direct financing leases), primarily in the form of rent deferrals. In addition, we have made certain accounting elections regarding loan and lease concessions related to the Federal Government’s pandemic relief efforts. See “Investments — Mortgage Loans — Mortgage Loan Concessions” and “Investments — Leases — Lease Concessions” in Note 8 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.
Until January 2021, the McCarran–Ferguson Act largely exempted insurance from U.S. antitrust laws. At that time, the Competitive Health Insurance Reform Act applied U.S. antitrust laws to the “business of health insurance” and expanded U.S. regulatory authority accordingly. We expect regulatory oversight and litigation risk for U.S. products, including dental and vision, to increase.
Health Care Regulation
The U.S. excise tax known as the “health insurer fee” was in force for the 2020 calendar year (though not for 2019). The health insurer fee no longer applies for calendar years beginning after December 31, 2020. However, demand for and pricing of products remain subject to tax uncertainty. Federal health care statutes and related regulation have imposed increased and unpredictable costs on certain products and may have additional adverse effects. They have also harmed our competitive position, as these rules have a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our not-for-profit competitors. See “Risk Factors — Regulatory and Legal Risks — Changes in Laws or Regulation, or in Supervisory and Enforcement Policies, May Reduce Our Profitability, Limit Our Growth, or Otherwise Adversely Affect Us.”
Guaranty Associations and Similar Arrangements
Many jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries transact business require life, health and property and casualty insurers to participate in guaranty or similar associations. These arrangements pay certain insurance benefits owed by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. We have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the guaranty association assessments.
Insurance Regulatory Examinations and Other Activities
U.S. state insurance departments periodically examine the books, records, accounts, and business practices of their domiciled insurers. State insurance departments may also conduct examinations of non-domiciliary insurers licensed in their states.
In 2019, MetLife entered into a consent order with the NYDFS relating to the open market conduct quinquennial exam and paid a fine and customer restitution and submitted remediation plans for approval. Except for this consent order or as described in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, MetLife did not receive any material adverse findings resulting from state insurance department examinations of its insurance subsidiaries.
In 2018, Pennsylvania, California, Florida, North Dakota and New Hampshire insurance regulators scheduled a multistate market conduct re-examination of MetLife and its affiliates relating to compliance with a regulatory settlement agreement on unclaimed proceeds. This examination is ongoing.
Regulatory authorities in a small number of states, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) and, occasionally, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) have conducted investigations or made inquiries relating to sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities or other products written by our insurance or broker-dealer subsidiaries. These investigations often focus on the conduct and/or supervision of particular financial services representatives, the sale of unregistered or unsuitable products, the misuse of client assets, or sales and replacements of annuities and certain riders on such annuities. Over the past several years, we resolved these (and a number of investigations by other regulators) for monetary payments and certain other relief, including restitution payments. We may continue to receive, and may resolve, further investigations and actions on these matters in a similar manner.
18
Table of Contents
Insurance standard-setting and regulatory support organizations, including the NAIC, encourage insurance supervisors to establish Supervisory Colleges. These organizations facilitate cooperation and coordination among insurance supervisors to enhance their understanding of the risk profile of U.S.-based insurance groups with international operations. MetLife’s lead state regulator, the NYDFS, regularly chairs Supervisory College meetings that MetLife’s key U.S. and non-U.S. regulators attend.
Regulators supervise our non-U.S. insurance and pension businesses through periodic examinations of insurance company books and records, financial reporting requirements, market conduct examinations and policy filing requirements. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (“EIOPA”), along with European legislation, requires European regulators, such as the Central Bank of Ireland, to establish Supervisory Colleges for European Economic Area (“EEA”)-based insurance groups with significant European operations, including MetLife. These colleges facilitate cooperation and coordination among European supervisors to enhance their understanding of an insurance group’s risk profile.
In 2019, we and other insurance and pension fund companies provided annuities sales practices information to the Chilean insurance and pension regulators. The regulators found that non-employee sales agents of MetLife Chile and other insurers had engaged in improper sales practices and that ProVida S.A. and other pension fund companies provided improper advice to customers. MetLife Chile and ProVida S.A. are contesting the regulators’ proposed fines.
In addition, regulators have scrutinized insurers’ claims payment practices. See Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding group annuity benefits, retained asset accounts and unclaimed property inquiries, including pension benefits.
Policy and Contract Reserve Adequacy Analysis
Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries, including affiliated captive reinsurers, must annually analyze their statutory reserves adequacy. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion that states that the statutory reserves make adequate provision, according to accepted actuarial standards of practice, for the anticipated cash flows required by the contractual obligations and related expenses of the U.S. insurance subsidiary. The actuary considers the adequacy of the statutory reserves in light of the assets held by the insurer with respect to such reserves and related actuarial items, such as the investment earnings on such assets and the consideration the insurer anticipates receiving and retaining under the related policies and contracts. We may increase reserves in order to submit such an opinion without qualification. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries that must provide these opinions have done so without qualifications since this requirement began.
Many of our non-U.S. insurance operations must also analyze the adequacy of their statutory reserves. In most of those cases, a locally qualified actuary must submit an analysis of the likelihood that the reserves make adequate provision for the insurer’s associated contractual obligations and related expenses. Regulatory and actuarial analytic standards vary widely.
National Association of Insurance Commissioners
The NAIC assists U.S. state insurance regulatory authorities to serve the public interest and achieve their regulatory goals. State insurance regulators may act independently or adopt regulations proposed by the NAIC. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly re-examine existing insurance laws and regulations. State insurance regulators establish standards and best practices, conduct peer reviews, and coordinate their regulatory oversight through the NAIC. The NAIC also provides standardized insurance industry accounting and reporting guidance through its Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”), which states have largely adopted by regulation. However, individual states establish statutory accounting principles, which may differ from the Manual. Changes to the Manual or modifications by the various state insurance departments may affect the statutory capital and surplus of MetLife, Inc.’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries.
19
Table of Contents
U.S. state insurance holding company laws and regulations are generally based on the NAIC Model Holding Company Act and Regulation. These vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require a controlled insurance company (i.e., insurers that are subsidiaries of insurance holding companies) to register and file reports with state regulatory authorities on its capital structure, ownership, financial condition, intercompany transactions and general business operations. They require the ultimate controlling person of a U.S. insurer to file an annual enterprise risk report with the lead state of the insurance holding company system. This report identifies risks likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. Each of our insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary states has enacted laws to implement these requirements, including the enterprise risk reporting requirement. The holding company laws also authorize state insurance commissioners to act as global group-wide supervisors for internationally active insurance groups (“IAIGs”), as well as other insurers that choose to opt in for the group-wide supervision. These laws provide confidentiality protection for communications with the group-wide supervisor. Nearly all states have adopted laws and regulations enhancing group-wide supervision. In 2020, the NYDFS amended its laws to permit the New York Superintendent of Financial Services (“Superintendent”) to act as a group-wide supervisor for IAIGs.
In furtherance of the NAIC’s “Solvency Modernization Initiative,” the NAIC has updated model acts and regulations to address insurance company financial regulation, and in particular capital requirements; corporate governance and risk management practices; group supervision; liquidity stress testing, statutory accounting and financial reporting; and reinsurance.
The NAIC’s Corporate Governance Annual Disclosure Model Act requires insurers to annually file detailed information regarding their corporate governance policies. As of December 31, 2020, it had been substantially adopted by most states.
Each of our insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary states has also adopted the Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act, which requires insurers to maintain a risk management framework and to document an internal own risk and solvency assessment (“ORSA”) of its material risks in normal and stressed environments. MetLife, Inc. has submitted on behalf of the enterprise an ORSA summary report to the NYDFS annually since this requirement became effective.
The NAIC has also approved a valuation manual containing a principle-based approach to the calculation of life insurance reserves (the “Valuation Manual”). Principle-based reserving (“PBR”) is designed to better address reserving for life insurance and annuity products. Principle-based reserving has been adopted by all the domiciliary states of MetLife’s insurance subsidiaries. The NYDFS promulgated a regulation in 2019 that affirms the Superintendent’s authority to deviate from the Valuation Manual to adjust the reserves of a New York domestic life insurance company, such as MLIC, if the NYDFS determines that an alternative requirement would be in the best interest of New York policyholders. In February 2020, the NYDFS amended the regulation. As a result, as of December 31, 2020, we increased our statutory reserves by approximately $700 million and our statutory capital requirements by approximately $300 million over the prior reserve and capital requirements. We graded these effects into our statutory financial statements over a one year period so the full impact is reflected as of December 31, 2020.
The NAIC has been focused on a macro-prudential initiative since 2017, which is intended to enhance risk identification efforts by building on the state-based regulation system. In furtherance of this initiative, the NAIC adopted changes to its Statutory Annual Statement reporting, effective for year-end 2019, to improve liquidity risk monitoring. In December 2020, the NAIC adopted amendments to the Model Holding Company Holding Act and Regulation that implement requirements related to a liquidity stress-testing framework, consistent with MetLife’s liquidity risks policies and procedures, for certain large U.S. life insurers and insurance groups, to be used as a regulatory tool, based on amounts of certain types of business written or material exposure to certain investment transactions, such as derivatives and securities lending. These amendments now have to be adopted by state legislatures to become effective.
We use capital markets solutions to finance a portion of our statutory reserve requirements for several products. These include level premium term life product subject to the NAIC’s Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Model Regulation (commonly referred to as Regulation XXX), universal and variable life policies with secondary guarantees (“ULSG”) subject to NAIC Actuarial Guideline 38 (commonly referred to as Guideline AXXX), and MLIC’s closed block. The NAIC created a regulatory framework applicable to the use of captive insurers in connection with Regulation XXX and Guideline AXXX transactions which has enhanced statutory financial statement disclosure of an insurer's use of captives. The framework narrowed the types of assets permitted to back statutory reserves that are required to support the insurer’s future obligations.
20
Table of Contents
The NAIC also requires the actuary of a ceding insurer to opine on the insurer’s reserves and to issue a qualified opinion if the framework described above, as set forth in Actuarial Guideline 48 (“AG 48”), is not followed. The NAIC’s Term and Universal Life Insurance Reserve Financing Model Regulation contains the same substantive requirements as AG 48, as amended by the NAIC in 2016, and it establishes uniform, national standards governing reserve financing arrangements pertaining to the term life and universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. This model regulation has only been adopted by a few states, including one of our insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary states.
We cannot predict the capital and reserve impacts, compliance costs, or other effects these initiatives will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Surplus and Capital
Insurers must maintain their capital and surplus at or above minimum levels prescribed by the laws of their respective jurisdictions. Regulators generally have discretionary authority to limit or prohibit an insurer’s sales to policyholders if the insurer has not maintained a minimum surplus or capital or if they find that the further transaction of business will be hazardous to policyholders.
State insurance statutes also typically restrict the dividends or other distributions an insurance company subsidiary may pay to its parent companies and limit the transactions between an insurer and its affiliates. Dividends in excess of prescribed limits and transactions above a specified size between an insurer and its affiliates require the approval of the insurance regulator in the insurer’s state of domicile. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — MetLife, Inc. — Liquidity and Capital Sources — Dividends from Subsidiaries.” See also “Dividend Restrictions” in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding such limitations.
Non-U.S. jurisdictions also restrict the amount of such dividends and other distributions. For example, a portion of the annual earnings of our Japan operations may be repatriated each year, and may further be distributed to MetLife, Inc. as a dividend. We may determine not to repatriate profits from the Japan operations or to repatriate a reduced amount in order to maintain or improve the solvency of the Japan operations or for other reasons. In addition, the Financial Services Agency in Japan (“FSA”) may limit or not permit profit repatriations or other transfers of funds to the U.S. if such transfers would be detrimental to the solvency or financial strength of our Japan operations or for other reasons.
Several non-U.S. insurance regulators urged insurance companies to preserve funds during the COVID-19 Pandemic. For example, the EIOPA suggested that insurance companies temporarily suspend discretionary dividends during the COVID-19 Pandemic.
For developments that could affect our ratio of free cash flow to adjusted earnings results, and thus our surplus and capital, see “Risk Factors.”
Risk-Based Capital
Most of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to risk-based capital (“RBC”) requirements developed by the NAIC and adopted by their respective domiciliary states. Insurers calculate RBC annually based on a formula that applies factors to various asset, premium, claim, expense and statutory reserve items, taking into account asset, insurance, interest rate, and market and business risk characteristics. Regulators use the formula as an early warning tool to identify insurers that may be inadequately capitalized for purposes of initiating regulatory action, and not as a means to rank insurers generally. State insurance laws provide insurance regulators the authority to require various actions by, or take various actions against, insurers whose total adjusted capital does not meet or exceed certain RBC levels. We expect our statutory financial statements to reflect that the total adjusted capital of each of our subsidiaries subject to these requirements was in excess of each of those RBC levels at year-end 2020, as they did for year-end 2019. See “Statutory Equity and Income” in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — The Company — Capital — Statutory Capital and Dividends.”
The NYDFS issues annual letters on Special Considerations (“SCL”) to New York-licensed insurance companies, including MLIC, that affect year-end asset adequacy testing. An SCL could require assumptions that require us to increase or release certain asset adequacy reserves, which could materially impact our statutory capital and surplus. We did not change our statutory capital and surplus in either 2019 or 2020 as a result of the SCL. See “Statutory Equity and Income” in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
We calculate our internally-defined “Statement-Based Combined RBC Ratio” by dividing the sum of total adjusted capital for MetLife, Inc.’s principal U.S. insurance subsidiaries, excluding American Life Insurance Company
21
Table of Contents
(“American Life”), by the sum of company action level RBC for such subsidiaries, including SCL considerations. Our Statement-Based Combined RBC Ratio was in excess of 350% at December 31, 2020 and in excess of 360% at December 31, 2019. By contrast, we calculate an “NAIC-Based Combined RBC Ratio” based on such subsidiaries’ statutory-based filed financial statements and NAIC capital and reserving standards. This NAIC-Based Combined RBC Ratio was in excess of 380% at both December 31, 2020 and 2019. We are not aware of any upcoming NAIC adoptions or state insurance department regulation changes that would have a material impact on our NAIC-Based Combined RBC Ratio.
The NAIC adopted revisions to certain factors used to calculate Life RBC, which is the denominator of the RBC ratios, in light of changes to U.S. tax laws in recent years. These revisions have resulted in increased RBC charges and reduced the RBC ratios of our insurance subsidiaries. The NAIC is also studying RBC revisions for real estate equity, bonds and longevity risk, but it is premature to project the impact of any potential regulatory changes resulting from such proposals.
The NAIC developed a group capital calculation tool using an RBC aggregation methodology for all entities within the insurance holding company system, including non-U.S. entities. In December 2020, the NAIC adopted the Group Capital Calculation Template and Instructions, as well as amendments to the Model Holding Company Act and Regulation. The amendments implement the annual filing requirement for the group capital calculation that now have to be adopted by state legislatures or regulatory agencies to become effective. We cannot predict what impact such regulatory tool may have on our business.
In 2020, the NAIC issued guidance on RBC addressing debt restructuring due to the economic impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic, where the counterparty might seek concessions. The guidance provides that an insurer does not need to reclassify the RBC category of some loans or other assets on which it has granted a concession. This may avoid a higher capital charge for the asset. The NAIC extended this guidance through January 1, 2022 in further support of the use of prudent loan modifications to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Solvency Regimes
Our insurance business throughout the EEA is subject to the Solvency II Directive and its implementing rules. These cover the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for insurers and reinsurers. Solvency II harmonizes insurance regulation across the European Union (“EU”). Each EEA member state has transposed the Solvency II Directive into its regulatory architecture. Its capital requirements are forward-looking and based on the risk profile of each individual insurance company in order to promote comparability, transparency and competitiveness. In line with the requirements, impacted MetLife entities calculate and report their solvency capital requirement using a standard formula prescribed by the Solvency II Directive and further regulation by the European Commission.
The U.K. ceased to be a member of the EU in January 2020, and following the expiry of a transition period on December 31, 2020, the U.K. is no longer subject to EU law. The relationship between the U.K. and the EU is now governed by the terms and conditions of a Trade and Cooperation Agreement (the “Trade Agreement”). The Trade Agreement does not contain many substantive provisions relating to financial services and, therefore, there is currently no change to capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting requirements for U.K. authorized insurers and reinsurers. However, it is possible that the U.K.’s domestic prudential regime may begin to diverge from the Solvency II Directive over time. The U.K. is currently undertaking a review of the Solvency II Directive and of the regulatory regime that is applicable to U.K. authorized insurers and reinsurers. We expect to maintain our existing operating model, including as an inbound EEA-insurer, under the U.K.’s Temporary Permissions Regime (“TPR”), which is due to last for at least three years and will permit MetLife to carry on its insurance business in the U.K. during that period.
Mexico has adopted a Solvency II-type regulatory framework which imposes reserve and capital requirements and corporate governance to foster transparency. In line with the requirements of the local Solvency II, insurance companies calculate and report their capital requirement using a standard formula designed by the local regulators (“CNSF”). In addition, as required, certain MetLife entities must submit annual ORSA reports to the CNSF on an ongoing basis.
In Chile, the law implementing Solvency II-like regulation continues in the studies stage. The implementation date for the new solvency regime has not yet been set; however, it could be in force within four years after the final regulation is published. MetLife Chile timely implemented governance changes and risk policies to comply with prior regulatory changes. MetLife Chile also submitted its most recent risk appetite framework and ORSA reports to the regulator in December 2020.
22
Table of Contents
The Superintendence of Private Insurance, the Brazilian insurance regulator, has established an insurance framework for minimum capital requirements based on risk, criteria for investment activities, a formal risk management function, and a formal enterprise risk management framework. MetLife Brazil has formalized the designation of a local risk manager and implemented governance structures and risk management framework components in accordance with local regulatory requirements.
Japanese law requires insurers to maintain solvency standards to protect policyholders and to support their own financial strength. Most Japanese life insurers maintain a solvency margin ratio well in excess of the legally mandated minimum. In addition, we expect Japan to introduce an economic value-based solvency regime within the next few years.
In China, the business of our joint venture (as well as the industry) has been implementing China Risk Oriented Solvency System (“C-ROSS”), a risk-based solvency regime. Like Solvency II, C-ROSS focuses on risk management and has three pillars (strengthen quantitative capital requirements, enhance qualitative supervision and establish a governance and market discipline process).
The Korea Financial Supervisory Service plans to implement a new solvency system by 2023. We expect this system to reflect the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”) global Insurance Capital Standard and incorporate certain product portfolio and other features specific to the Korean market. We also expect this system to include mark-to-market valuation, which would generally increase capital requirements.
IAIS
The IAIS is an association of insurance supervisors and regulators and a member of the Financial Stability Board (“FSB”), an international entity established to coordinate, develop and promote regulatory, supervisory and other financial sector policies in the interest of financial stability. The IAIS participates in the FSB’s initiative to identify and manage systemic risk globally. The IAIS has adopted a holistic framework for the assessment and mitigation of systemic risk in the global insurance sector (the “Holistic Framework”). The framework monitors the build-up of vulnerabilities at jurisdictional and global levels to address any such risk through the application of enhanced supervisory measures based on existing insurance core principles and the common framework for supervision of IAIGs. The FSB annually designated MetLife, Inc. a globally systemically important insurer (“G-SII”) from 2016 to 2019, but the FSB suspended our G-SII identification beginning in 2020. The FSB may discontinue or re-establish the G-SII designation system based on the implementation results of the Holistic Framework.
An IAIS proposal becomes effective when it is enacted through legislation or regulation in the applicable jurisdiction. As MetLife, Inc. is not a U.S. non-bank SIFI, the impact on MetLife, Inc. of the IAIS’s global proposals is uncertain.
New York Insurance Regulation 210
Insurance Regulation 210 establishes standards for the determination and any readjustment of non-guaranteed elements (“NGEs”) that may vary at the insurer’s discretion for life insurance policies and annuity contracts delivered or issued for delivery in New York. NGEs include cost of insurance for universal life insurance policies, as well as interest crediting rates for annuities and universal life insurance policies. The regulation requires insurers to notify policyholders at least 60 days in advance of any change in NGEs that is adverse to policyholders and, with respect to life insurance, to notify the NYDFS at least 120 days prior to any such changes. The regulation also requires insurers to inform the NYDFS annually of any changes adverse to policyholders made in the prior year. The regulation generally prohibits insurers from increasing profit margins for in-force policies or adjusting NGEs in order to recoup past losses.
Cybersecurity and Privacy Regulation
Various U.S. federal and state government agencies protect the privacy and security of personal information. A number of jurisdictions outside the U.S. safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. These laws and rules vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Insurance and other regulators are also increasingly focused on cybersecurity.
New York’s cybersecurity regulation for financial services institutions, including banking and insurance entities under its jurisdiction, requires these entities to establish and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect consumers’ private data. The regulation requires covered entities to assess risks associated with their information systems and establish and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of such systems and data. Specifically, it provides for: (i) controls relating to the governance framework for a cybersecurity program; (ii) risk-based minimum standards for technology systems for data protection; (iii) minimum standards for cyber breach responses, including notice to the NYDFS of material events; and (iv) identification and documentation of material deficiencies, remediation plans and annual certifications of regulatory compliance to the NYDFS.
23
Table of Contents
The NAIC’s Insurance Data Security Model Law (the “Cybersecurity Model Law”) established standards for data security and for the investigation of and notification of insurance commissioners of cybersecurity events involving unauthorized access to, or the misuse of, certain nonpublic information. The Cybersecurity Model Law imposes regulatory requirements intended to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information systems. Several states have adopted the Cybersecurity Model Law, including some of our insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary states.
California residents have the right to know what information a business has collected from them and the sourcing and sharing of that information. They also have a right to have a business delete their personal information (with some exceptions), and in certain instances, to limit the use of their personal information. Regulators may impose fines for violations, and individuals have a private right of action for any unauthorized disclosure of personal information as a result of failure to maintain reasonable security procedures. While a significant portion of our business is exempted from these specific requirements, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act and the insurance laws of several states grant similar rights to insureds.
The General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) establishes uniform data privacy laws across the EU. The U.K. Data Protection Act of 2018 (“U.K. GDPR”) implements provisions of the GDPR with respect to personal data originating from within the U.K. GDPR and the U.K. GDPR apply to EU and U.K. entities, respectively, as well as entities not established in the EU and/or the U.K., that offer goods or services to data subjects in the EU and/or the U.K., or monitor consumer behavior that takes place in the EU and/or the U.K. Regulators may impose fines for non-compliance. Following the U.K.’s exit from the EU, the U.K. GDPR may diverge from GDPR over time.
ERISA, Fiduciary Considerations, and Other Pension and Retirement Regulation
We provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). ERISA and the Code impose restrictions, including fiduciary duties to perform solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and to avoid certain prohibited transactions. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor (“DOL”), the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
The prohibited transaction rules of ERISA and the Code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to ERISA plans and participants and IRAs if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to an individual advisor, the firm that employs the advisor or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen, unless an exemption or exception is available. Similarly, without an exemption or exception, fiduciary advisors are prohibited from receiving compensation from third parties in connection with their advice. ERISA also affects certain of our in-force insurance policies and annuity contracts, as well as insurance policies and annuity contracts we may sell in the future.
The SEC adopted Regulation Best Interest in 2020, requiring broker-dealers to act in the best interest of individual investor retail clients when recommending securities or investment strategies, including recommendations to IRA owners, as well as non-benefit plan retail clients. In addition, broker-dealers and investment advisers to retail clients must describe their services and conflicts of interest to their retail customers in client relationship summary disclosure and deliver a copy of the Form to their retail customers. In December 2020, the DOL released the final version of the prohibited transaction exemption (“PTE”) 2020-02 to allow investment advice fiduciaries to receive compensation without violating ERISA, subject to impartial conduct standards and disclosure obligations aligned with the new SEC rules. In the preamble to PTE 2020-02, the DOL also provided its final interpretation of the five-part test used to determine whether a person is acting as an ERISA investment advice fiduciary. PTE 2020-02 became effective on February 16, 2021. The new US presidential administration has ordered a pause on regulatory changes initiated before it took office. As a result, it may delay, change, or withdraw this rule.
State regulators and legislatures in Nevada, New Jersey, Maryland and New York have proposed measures that would make broker-dealers, sales agents, and investment advisers and their representatives subject to a fiduciary duty when providing products and services to customers, including pension plans and IRAs, and Massachusetts has enacted a law to that effect. The NYDFS’s regulation incorporates the “best interest” standard and expands the scope of the regulation beyond annuity transactions to include sales of life insurance policies to consumers. This Regulation Best Interest under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) does not include a private right of action, although the SEC did not indicate an intent to pre-empt state regulation in this area, and some of the state proposals and adopted regulations would allow for a private right of action. As a result of these developments, it is possible that it may become more costly to provide our products and services in the states subject to the new rules.
In 2020, the Chilean Congress approved two bills, each one of which allowed individuals to withdraw up to 10% of pension accounts or the account balance if it is below a certain amount. ProVida S.A. and other companies in the industry continue to process such payments. Chile also continues to consider further pension reforms that could affect our business.
24
Table of Contents
Consumer Protection Laws
Numerous federal and state laws affect our earnings and activities, including federal and state consumer protection laws. As part of Dodd-Frank, Congress established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (“CFPB”) to supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. Although the consumer financial services subject to the CFPB’s jurisdiction generally exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the CFPB does have authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services we provide. Consumer protection laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions may also affect us.
Investments Regulation
State laws and regulations limit the amount of investments that our U.S. insurance subsidiaries may have in certain asset categories, such as below investment grade fixed income securities, real estate equity, other equity investments, and derivatives, and require diversification of investment portfolios. Investments exceeding regulatory limitations are not admitted for purposes of measuring surplus. In some instances, laws require us to divest any non-qualifying investments. In addition, many of our non-U.S. insurance subsidiaries and pension companies are subject to other investment laws and regulations.
Changing global financial and economic environments, and the fiscal and monetary policy of governments and central banks around the world, continue to affect our global insurance business. These may affect interest rates, and thereby the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, as well as our business operations, investment portfolio, and derivatives.
Derivatives Regulation
Dodd-Frank includes a framework of regulation of the over-the-counter (“OTC”) derivatives markets requiring clearing of certain types of interest rate and credit default swap transactions and imposes additional costs, including reporting and margin requirements. Our costs of risk mitigation are increasing under Dodd-Frank. For example, Dodd-Frank imposes requirements to pledge variation and/or initial margin (i) for “OTC-cleared” transactions (OTC derivatives that are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties), and (ii) for “OTC-bilateral” transactions (OTC derivatives that are bilateral contracts between two counterparties); the margin requirements for OTC-cleared transactions and the variation margin requirements for OTC-bilateral derivatives are already in effect, while the initial margin requirements for OTC-bilateral swap transactions are expected to become applicable to us in September 2021.
We expect increased margin requirements, and capital charges for our counterparties and central clearinghouses related to holding non-cash collateral, to continue to increase our required holdings of cash and government securities. This may cause lower yields and reduce our income due to less favorable pricing for OTC-cleared and OTC-bilateral transactions. Centralized clearing of certain OTC derivatives exposes us to the risk of a default by a clearing member or clearinghouse with respect to our cleared derivative transactions. We use derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with our businesses, including the impact of increased benefit exposures from certain of our annuity products that offer guaranteed benefits. We have always been subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures might prove ineffective in reducing the risks to which insurance policies expose us, or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, could produce economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. Any such losses could be increased by higher costs of writing derivatives (including customized derivatives) and the reduced availability of customized derivatives that might result from the implementation of Dodd-Frank and comparable international derivatives regulations.
Dodd-Frank also expanded the definition of “swap” and mandated the SEC and U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) to study whether “stable value contracts” should be treated as swaps. Pursuant to the new definition and the SEC’s and CFTC’s interpretive regulations, products offered by our insurance subsidiaries other than stable value contracts might also be treated as swaps. Should such products become regulated as swaps, we cannot predict how the rules would be applied to them or the effect on such products’ profitability or attractiveness to our clients. Special federal banking rules apply to certain qualified financial contracts, including many derivatives contracts, securities lending agreements and repurchase agreements, with banking institutions and certain of their affiliates. These rules generally require the banking institutions and their applicable affiliates to limit or delay their counterparties default rights (such as the right to terminate the contracts or foreclose on collateral) and restrict assignments and transfers of credit enhancements (such as guarantees) in connection with the banking institution or affiliate bankruptcy, insolvency, resolution or similar proceeding. These rules could limit our recovery in the event of a default, limit our ability to close-out transactions upon the bankruptcy of an affiliate of our counterparty, and increase our counterparty risk.
25
Table of Contents
We expect the amount of collateral we are required to pledge and the payments we are required to make under our OTC swaps transactions to increase as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for OTC-bilateral transactions, based on the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives.
The SEC’s Capital Requirements for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants are scheduled to take effect in October 2021. However, we do not expect these requirements to affect our business significantly.
Securities, Broker-Dealer and Investment Adviser Regulation
U.S. federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also “securities,” including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies, and certain fixed interest rate or index-linked contracts with features that require them to be deemed as securities or sold through private placement issuances. As a result, some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws.
Federal and state securities laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to adopt new rules impacting new or existing products, regulate the issuance, sale and distribution of our products and limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In some non-U.S. jurisdictions, some of our insurance products are considered “securities” under local law, and we may be subject to local securities regulations and oversight by local securities regulators.
Some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance products are subject to extensive regulation under the federal securities laws and regulations administered by the SEC. These subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, amended (the “Investment Company Act”) or are exempt from registration under the Investment Company Act. Such separate accounts are generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the Investment Company Act. In addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies associated with these registered separate accounts are registered with the SEC under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) or are exempt from registration under the Securities Act. One insurance subsidiary issues a fixed interest rate contract with features that require it to be registered as a security under the Securities Act.
Some of our subsidiaries are registered with the SEC as broker-dealers under the Exchange Act and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA. Certain variable contract separate accounts sponsored by our subsidiaries are exempt from registration but may be subject to other provisions of the federal securities laws. The SEC, CFTC and FINRA from time to time propose rules and regulations that impact products deemed to be securities.
One of our U.S. subsidiaries is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and is also registered as an investment adviser in various states and non-U.S. jurisdictions, as applicable. In addition, we have other non-U.S. subsidiaries that are registered or licensed in non-U.S. jurisdictions to conduct our investment management business. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we provide investment advisory services or conduct other activities.
Under SEC rules, broker-dealers recommending our variable products and other securities offerings to retail customers are required to comply with a “best interest” standard. The rule also requires broker-dealers to disclose the nature of services, their standard of conduct, and their conflicts of interest to their retail customers. With regard to insurance products, the NAIC revised its Suitability in Annuity Transactions Model Regulation to add a “best interest” standard for the sale of annuities, but only one of our insurance subsidiaries’ domiciliary states has adopted it and it is under consideration in another domiciliary state.
Federal and state securities regulatory authorities and FINRA from time to time make inquiries and conduct examinations regarding compliance by MetLife, Inc. and its subsidiaries with securities and other laws and regulations. We cooperate with such inquiries and examinations and take corrective action when warranted.
26
Table of Contents
Environmental Laws and Regulations
As an owner and operator of real property in many jurisdictions, we are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations in such jurisdictions. Inherent in such ownership and operation is also the risk that there may be environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. Unexpected environmental liabilities may arise. However, based on information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
The NYDFS announced that it expects insurers to integrate financial risks from climate change into their governance frameworks, risk management processes, and business strategies. The NYDFS will also publish detailed guidance on climate-related financial supervision and will integrate questions on this topic into their examinations in 2021.
Unclaimed Property
We are subject to the laws and regulations of states and other jurisdictions concerning identification, reporting and escheatment of unclaimed or abandoned funds, and are subject to audit and examination for compliance with these requirements. See “— Insurance Regulation — Insurance Regulatory Examinations and Other Activities,” which references the regulatory settlement agreement relating to unclaimed proceeds. See also “Controls and Procedures” and Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Brighthouse Separation Tax Treatment
Prior to the spin-off distribution of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “Brighthouse”) common stock in 2017, we received a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding certain significant issues under the Code, as well as an opinion from tax counsel that the distribution qualified for non-recognition of gain or loss to us and our shareholders pursuant to Sections 355 and 361 of the Code, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares, each subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions and covenants therein.
Notwithstanding the receipt of the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the IRS could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction, for example, if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or covenants on which the private letter ruling is based are untrue or have been violated. Similarly, the IRS could determine that our disposal of the fair value option of Brighthouse Financial, Inc.’s common stock in the debt-for-equity exchange should be treated as a taxable transaction to MetLife, Inc. Furthermore, as part of the IRS’s policy, the IRS did not determine whether the distribution or the debt-for-equity exchange satisfies certain conditions that are necessary to qualify for non-recognition treatment. Rather, the private letter ruling is based on representations by us and Brighthouse that these conditions have been satisfied. The tax opinion addressed the satisfaction of these conditions. The tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and the IRS or a court may take a contrary position. In addition, the tax counsel relied on certain representations and covenants delivered by us and Brighthouse.
If the IRS ultimately determines that the distribution is taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to MetLife shareholders who received shares of Brighthouse Financial, Inc. common stock in the distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and such shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, if the IRS ultimately determines that the distribution is taxable, we and Brighthouse could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and either we or Brighthouse could have an indemnification obligation to the other, depending on the circumstances.
Even if the spin-off distribution otherwise qualifies for non-recognition of gain or loss under Section 355 of the Code, it may be taxable to us, but not our shareholders, under Section 355(e) of the Code if 50% or more (by vote or value) of our common stock or Brighthouse Financial, Inc.’s common stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. Under the tax separation agreement with Brighthouse, we are restricted from certain activities and have indemnity obligations which may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our shareholders may consider favorable.
27
Table of Contents
Cross-Border Trade and Investments
Our U.K. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations, which were eliminated as a result of the U.K. exiting the EU. In particular, our EEA insurance entities have lost the right to “passport” insurance services into the U.K. Nevertheless, MetLife expects to maintain its existing operating model, including as an inbound EEA-insurer under the U.K.’s TPR, which is due to last for at least three years and will permit MetLife to carry on its insurance business in the U.K. during that period. Operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of such changes.
Further, MetLife Investment Management Limited (“MIML”), our third-party investment manager in the U.K., has lost its passporting rights in the EU. We are arranging a means to continue our third-party investment management business in the EU.
The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement came into effect in 2020. The U.S. and Chinese governments may continue to negotiate the terms of the bilateral economic relationship, including with respect to the imposition of tariffs.
While tariffs do not generally affect us directly, the economic impact of continued uncertainty could impact the growth of the insurance market in China or other markets. A U.S. presidential executive order prohibited U.S. persons transacting in the publicly traded securities of (or derivatives or securities designed to provide investment exposure to) any Communist Chinese military companies, effective January 11, 2021. U.S. persons who held such investments as of that date (or do, whenever a company is later designated under the rule) may transact in such securities for the sole purpose of divesting them. The new U.S. presidential administration is reviewing the prior administration’s policies on China. As a result, it may delay, change, or withdraw all or part of these policies.
London Interbank Offered Rate
The Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), the U.K. regulator of LIBOR, previously indicated that it intends to stop persuading or compelling panel banks to submit quotes used to determine LIBOR after 2021. On November 30, 2020, the Intercontinental Exchange (“ICE”) Benchmark Administration (“IBA”), the administrator of LIBOR, announced a consultation regarding its intention to cease the publication of one week and two-month U.S. Dollar LIBOR settings at the end of December 2021, but to extend the publication of the remaining U.S. Dollar LIBOR settings (overnight and one, three, six and 12 month U.S. Dollar LIBOR) until the end of June 2023. The IBA intends to share the results of the consultation with the FCA and publish a summary of the responses. U.S. bank regulators acknowledged the announcement and, subject to certain limited exceptions, advised banks to cease writing new U.S. Dollar LIBOR contracts by the end of 2021.
We use LIBOR and other interbank offered rates as interest reference rates in many of our financial instruments. Existing contract fallback provisions, and whether, how, and when we and others develop and adopt alternative reference rates, will influence the effect of any changes to or discontinuation of LIBOR on us. We are identifying, assessing and monitoring market and regulatory developments, assessing agreement terms, and evaluating operational readiness. The SEC’s Division of Examinations (formerly Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations) expects to assess registrants’ efforts to prepare for LIBOR discontinuation and their transition to alternatives. We actively participate in the New York Federal Reserve Bank convened Alternative Reference Rate Committee and other industry association efforts on the transition to alternative reference rates. The Company is utilizing the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (“ISDA”) 2020 IBOR Fallbacks Protocol to address the transition from LIBOR and other interbank offered rates to other risk-free rates in its OTC bilateral ISDA derivatives contracts. We also monitor the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s, International Accounting Standards Board’s, and U.S. Treasury Department’s updates on the accounting and tax implications of reference rate reform. We continue to assess current and alternative reference rates’ merits, limitations, risks and suitability for our investment and insurance processes.

28
Table of Contents
Competition
The life insurance industry remains highly competitive. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Industry Trends — Competitive Pressures.” We face competition based on factors such as service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. We compete globally with a large number of insurance companies and non-insurance financial services companies such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers. We compete for individual consumers, employer and other group customers, as well as agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. Some of our competitors offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. In the United States and Japan, we compete with a large number of domestic and foreign-owned life insurance companies, many of which offer products in categories on which we focus. Elsewhere, we compete with the foreign insurance operations of large U.S. insurers and with global insurance groups and local companies. Because we and others underwrite many group insurance products annually, our group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us.
Insurers are focused on their core businesses, specifically in markets where they can achieve scale. They are increasingly seeking alternative sources of revenue focusing on monetization of assets, and fee-based services. They are also looking for opportunities to offer comprehensive solutions which include value-added services along with traditional products.
Financial market volatility will impact insurers’ capital positions, which may strain the competitive environment and lead to industry consolidation. We believe adaptability to market changes (such as those from pandemics), as well as financial strength, technological efficiency and organizational agility, will most significantly differentiate competitors in our industry. We believe we are well positioned to succeed in any environment.
The Company distributes many of its products through a variety of third-party distribution channels, including banks and broker-dealers. We believe potential distribution partners carefully consider the financial strength of the company whose products they sell. Bank and broker-dealer consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors.
We face intense competition for employees. We must attract and retain highly skilled people with knowledge of our business and industry experience to support our business. We continue to seek to grow our career agency forces in selected global markets. We also continue efforts to enhance the efficiency and production of our sales representatives. These initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining productive agents. See “— Segments and Corporate & Other” for information on sales distribution.
Numerous aspects of our business are heavily regulated. Legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry.
Human Capital Resources
At October 1, 2020, we had approximately 46,500 employees, calculated consistent with Regulation S-K Item 402(u) without exempting any employees under Regulation S-K Item 402(u)(4).
We strive to build a purpose-driven and inclusive culture where our employees are energized to make a difference. As a financial services company, we rely significantly on our global workforce, leveraging a wide variety of professional, scientific, management, business, and other skills and expertise, to create value for all of our stakeholders. To continue strengthening and cultivating a diverse workforce that can thrive now and, in the future, we will focus on the following:
•Purpose, employee engagement and well-being: We aspire to empower our employees to feel a sense of purpose, belonging and impact from their work contributions to execute our strategy, focus on our priorities, and achieve our goals. We will encourage our employees to prioritize health by connecting our purpose, our work, and the importance of overall health and well-being. We will also continue to apply these principles to strive to meet our employees’ needs during the COVID-19 Pandemic and beyond. We will monitor our progress in part by our annual employee survey, which measures purpose, engagement, and satisfaction.
•Diversity, equity and inclusion: We will cultivate an inclusive culture where our diversity of talent will position us to meet the needs of our customers, our shareholders, and the communities we serve around the world and to meet our people commitment. We will monitor our progress in part by measuring the representation across our workforce, including our leadership, against appropriate benchmarks. We will also monitor our progress by our annual employee survey and will review our practices and policies for equity and fairness.
29
Table of Contents
•Talent development: We will work to develop a highly skilled workforce of the future with the right capabilities to deliver on our strategic goals. Employees will leverage our digitally enabled learning platform to continuously learn and build core skills they need in a dynamic environment. Through holistic development and succession planning, we will continue to prepare our workforce for the future. We will also continue to cultivate an adaptable sales force, as customer relationships are crucial to our success. We will monitor our progress in part by engagement with our learning content and skills application, and through valuable insights from our annual employee survey.
Information About Our Executive Officers
Set forth below is information regarding the executive officers of MetLife, Inc. MLIC and MetLife Group, Inc. are affiliates of MetLife, Inc.:
																				
Name		Age		Position with MetLife and Business Experience
Michel A. Khalaf		57		•		President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of MetLife, Inc. (May 2019 – present)
				•		President, U.S. Business, of MetLife, Inc. (July 2017 – April 2019)
				•		President, EMEA, of MetLife, Inc. (November 2011 – July 2017)
John D. McCallion		47		•		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MetLife, Inc. (August 2018 – July 2019) (November 2019 – present)
				•		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2018 – August 2018) (July 2019 – November 2019)
				•		
Executive Vice President and Treasurer of MetLife, Inc. (July 2016 – May 2018)
				•		Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, EMEA, of MetLife Group, Inc. (August 2014 – June 2016)
Marlene Debel		54		•		Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2019 – present)
				•		Executive Vice President and Head of Retirement & Income Solutions of MetLife, Inc. (March 2018 – May 2019)
				•		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Business, of MetLife, Inc. (July 2016 – March 2018)
				•		Executive Vice President and Treasurer of MetLife, Inc. (June 2011 – July 2016)
Stephen W. Gauster		50		•		Executive Vice President and General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (May 2018 – present)
				•		Senior Vice President and Interim General Counsel of MetLife, Inc. (July 2017 – May 2018)
				•		Senior Vice President and Chief Counsel, General Corporate Section of the Law Department of MetLife Group, Inc. (January 2016 – June 2017)
Steven J. Goulart		62		•		Executive Vice President and Chief Investment Officer of MetLife, Inc. (May 2011 – present)
				•		Head of the Portfolio Management Unit as Senior Managing Director of MLIC (January 2011 – April 2011)
Esther S. Lee		62		•		Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer of MetLife, Inc. (January 2015 – present)
				•		Senior Vice President, Brand Marketing, Advertising and Sponsorships of AT&T, Inc., a communications company (August 2011 – December 2014)
Bill Pappas		51		•		Executive Vice President, Global Technology and Operations, of MetLife, Inc. (November 2019 – present)
				•		Head of Global Operations, Bank of America, a financial services company (February 2016 – November 2019)
				•		Chief Information Officer, Bank of America (February 2010 – February 2016)
Susan M. Podlogar		57		•		Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of MetLife, Inc. (July 2017 – present)
				•		Vice President, Human Resources, Global Medical Devices, Johnson & Johnson, a medical devices, pharmaceutical and consumer products company (May 2016 – June 2017)
				•		Vice President, Human Resources, EMEA, Global Total Rewards, Johnson & Johnson (January 2015 – May 2016)
Kishore Ponnavolu		56		•		President, Asia, of MetLife, Inc. (September 2018 – present)
				•		Executive Vice President, Property & Casualty, of MetLife Group, Inc (November 2013 – August 2018)
Ramy Tadros		45		•		Executive Vice President and President, U.S. Business, of MetLife, Inc. (May 2019 – present)
				•		Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of MetLife, Inc. (September 2017 – April 2019)
				•		Management Consultant, Oliver Wyman, Inc., a consulting company (September 1997 – July 2017)
30
Table of Contents
Trademarks
We have a worldwide trademark portfolio that we consider important in the marketing of our products and services, including, among others, the trademark “MetLife.” We also have trademarks, such as the “PROVIDA” trademark, we have acquired with businesses. We believe that our rights in our trademarks are well protected.
Available Information
MetLife encourages investors and others to frequently visit its website (www.metlife.com), including its Investor Relations web pages (https://investor.metlife.com). MetLife announces significant financial and other information to its investors and the public on its Investor Relations web pages in news releases, public conference calls and webcasts, fact sheets, and other documents and media. MetLife, Inc. makes available free of charge on its Investor Relations web pages the reports and other information it publicly discloses with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, any amendments to each of those reports, proxy statements, and other disclosure. The SEC maintains an internet website (https://www.sec.gov) that contains this and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, including MetLife, Inc.
The information on MetLife’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document MetLife submits to the SEC, and any references to MetLife’s website are intended to be inactive textual references only.
