OVERVIEW
Marathon Petroleum Corporation (“MPC”) has over 130 years of experience in the energy business, and is the largest independent petroleum product refining, marketing, retail and midstream business in the United States. We operate the nation's largest refining system with approximately 2.9 million barrels per day of crude oil refining capacity and believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers in the United States. We also operate Speedway, the second largest chain of company-owned and operated retail gasoline and convenience stores in the United States, which we have agreed to sell to 7-Eleven, Inc. (“7-Eleven”) for $21 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments based on the levels of cash, debt and working capital at closing and certain other items. We distribute our refined products through one of the largest terminal operations in the United States and one of the largest private domestic fleets of inland petroleum product barges. In addition, our integrated midstream energy asset network links producers of natural gas and NGLs from some of the largest supply basins in the United States to domestic and international markets.
Our operations consist of two reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing and Midstream. Each of these segments is organized and managed based upon the nature of the products and services it offers.
•Refining & Marketing – refines crude oil and other feedstocks at our refineries in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and West Coast regions of the United States, purchases refined products and ethanol for resale and distributes refined products through transportation, storage, distribution and marketing services provided largely by our Midstream segment. We sell refined products to wholesale marketing customers domestically and internationally, to buyers on the spot market, to independent entrepreneurs who operate primarily Marathon® branded outlets, through long-term supply contracts with direct dealers who operate locations mainly under the ARCO® brand and to approximately 3,800 Speedway locations.
•Midstream – transports, stores, distributes and markets crude oil and refined products principally for the Refining & Marketing segment via refining logistics assets, pipelines, terminals, towboats and barges; gathers, processes and transports natural gas; and gathers, transports, fractionates, stores and markets NGLs. The Midstream segment primarily reflects the results of MPLX LP (“MPLX”). MPLX is a diversified, large-cap master limited partnership (“MLP”) formed in 2012 that owns and operates midstream energy infrastructure and logistics assets and provides fuels distribution services. As of December 31, 2020, we owned the general partner of MPLX and approximately 62 percent of the outstanding MPLX common units.
Corporate History and Structure
MPC was incorporated in Delaware on November 9, 2009 in connection with an internal restructuring of Marathon Oil Corporation (“Marathon Oil”). On May 25, 2011, the Marathon Oil board of directors approved the spinoff of its Refining, Marketing & Transportation Business into an independent, publicly traded company, MPC, through the distribution of MPC common stock to the stockholders of Marathon Oil on June 30, 2011. Our common stock trades on the NYSE under the ticker symbol “MPC.”
On October 1, 2018, we acquired Andeavor. Andeavor shareholders received in the aggregate approximately 239.8 million shares of MPC common stock valued at $19.8 billion and $3.5 billion in cash. Andeavor was a highly integrated marketing, logistics and refining company operating primarily in the Western and Mid-Continent United States. Our acquisition of Andeavor in 2018 substantially increased our geographic diversification and the scale of our assets, which provides increased opportunities to optimize our system.
Recent Developments
Strategic Actions to Enhance Shareholder Value
Speedway Sale
On August 2, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell Speedway, our company-owned and operated retail transportation fuel and convenience store business, to 7-Eleven for $21 billion in cash,
4
Table of Contents
subject to certain adjustments based on the levels of cash, debt and working capital at closing and certain other items. The taxable transaction is targeted to close by the end of the first quarter of 2021, subject to customary closing conditions and the receipt of regulatory approvals. This transaction is expected to result in after-tax cash proceeds of approximately $16.5 billion. We expect to use the proceeds from the sale to strengthen the balance sheet and return capital to shareholders.
In connection with the agreement to sell Speedway, we have agreed to enter into certain ancillary agreements, including a 15-year fuel supply agreement associated with 7-Eleven or its subsidiaries, depending on the fuel demand of Speedway and other factors to be set forth in the fuel supply agreement. Further, we expect incremental opportunities over time to supply 7-Eleven's remaining business as 7-Eleven's existing arrangements mature and as new locations are added in connection with its announced U.S. and Canada growth strategy.

As a result of the agreement to sell Speedway, its results are reported separately as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of income for all periods presented and its assets and liabilities have been reclassified in our consolidated balance sheets to assets and liabilities held for sale. Prior to presentation of Speedway as discontinued operations, Speedway and our retained direct dealer business were the two reporting units within our Retail segment. Beginning with the third quarter of 2020, the direct dealer business is managed as part of the Refining & Marketing segment. The results of the Refining & Marketing segment have been retrospectively adjusted to include the results of the direct dealer business in all periods presented.
As a result of our agreement to sell Speedway, the following changes in our basis of presentation have occurred:
•In accordance with ASC 205, Discontinued Operations, intersegment sales from our Refining & Marketing segment to Speedway are no longer eliminated as intercompany transactions and are now presented within sales and other operating revenue, since we will continue to supply fuel to Speedway subsequent to the sale to 7-Eleven. All periods presented have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect this change.
•Beginning August 2, 2020, in accordance with ASC 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment, we ceased recording depreciation and amortization for Speedway’s property, plant and equipment, finite-lived intangible assets and right of use lease assets.
Midstream Review
On March 18, 2020, we announced that MPC’s board of directors unanimously decided to maintain MPC’s current midstream structure, with MPC remaining, through a wholly owned subsidiary, the general partner of MPLX. This decision concluded a comprehensive evaluation, led by a special committee of the board, that included extensive input from multiple external advisors and significant feedback from investors.
OUR OPERATIONS
Our operations consist of two reportable operating segments: Refining & Marketing and Midstream.
REFINING & MARKETING
Refineries
We currently own and operate refineries in the Gulf Coast, Mid-Continent and West Coast regions of the United States with an aggregate crude oil refining capacity of 2,874 mbpcd. During 2020, our refineries processed 2,418 mbpd of crude oil and 165 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks. During 2019, our refineries processed 2,902 mbpd of crude oil and 210 mbpd of other charge and blendstocks.
Our refineries include crude oil atmospheric and vacuum distillation, fluid catalytic cracking, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, coking, desulfurization and sulfur recovery units. The refineries process a wide variety of condensate and light and heavy crude oils purchased from various domestic and foreign suppliers. We produce numerous refined products, ranging from transportation fuels, such as reformulated gasolines, blend-grade gasolines intended for blending with ethanol and ULSD fuel, to heavy fuel oil and asphalt. Additionally, we manufacture aromatics, propane, propylene and sulfur. See the Refined Product Marketing section for further information about the products we produce.
5
Table of Contents
Our refineries are integrated with each other via pipelines, terminals and barges to maximize operating efficiency. The transportation links that connect our refineries allow the movement of intermediate products between refineries to optimize operations, produce higher margin products and efficiently utilize our processing capacity. Also, shipping intermediate products between facilities during partial refinery shutdowns allows us to utilize processing capacity that is not directly affected by the shutdown work.
Following is a description of each of our refineries and their capacity by region.
Gulf Coast Region (1,171 mbpcd)
Galveston Bay, Texas City, Texas Refinery (593 mbpcd)
Our Galveston Bay refinery is a world-class refining complex resulting from the combination of our former Texas City refinery and Galveston Bay refinery. The refinery is located on the Texas Gulf Coast approximately 30 miles southeast of Houston, Texas and can process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. Our cogeneration facility, which supplies the Galveston Bay refinery, currently has 1,055 megawatts of electrical production capacity and can produce 4.3 million pounds of steam per hour. Approximately 49 percent of the power generated in 2020 was used at the refinery, with the remaining electricity being sold into the electricity grid.
Garyville, Louisiana Refinery (578 mbpcd)
Our Garyville refinery, which is one of the largest refineries in the U.S., is located along the Mississippi River in southeastern Louisiana between New Orleans, Louisiana and Baton Rouge, Louisiana. The Garyville refinery is configured to process a wide variety of crude oils into gasoline, distillates, petrochemicals, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and heavy fuel oil. The refinery has access to the export market and multiple options to sell refined products. Our Garyville refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.
Mid-Continent Region (1,153 mbpcd)
Catlettsburg, Kentucky Refinery (291 mbpcd)
Our Catlettsburg refinery is located in northeastern Kentucky on the western bank of the Big Sandy River, near the confluence with the Ohio River. The Catlettsburg refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby Utica Shale, into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, petrochemicals, heavy fuel oil, propane and feedstocks. Our Catlettsburg refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.
Robinson, Illinois Refinery (253 mbpcd)
Our Robinson refinery is located in southeastern Illinois. The Robinson refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, propane, petrochemicals and heavy fuel oil. The Robinson refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.
Detroit, Michigan Refinery (140 mbpcd)
Our Detroit refinery is located in southwest Detroit. It is the only petroleum refinery currently operating in Michigan. The Detroit refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude oils into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, feedstocks, petrochemicals, propane and heavy fuel oil. Our Detroit refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.
El Paso, Texas Refinery (131 mbpcd)
Our El Paso refinery is located approximately three miles east of downtown El Paso, Texas. The El Paso refinery processes sweet and sour crudes into gasoline, distillates, asphalt, heavy fuel oil, propane and petrochemicals.
St. Paul Park, Minnesota Refinery (104 mbpcd)
Our St. Paul Park refinery is located along the Mississippi River southeast of St. Paul Park, Minnesota. The St. Paul Park refinery processes sweet and heavy sour crude and manufactures gasoline, distillates, asphalt, petrochemicals, propane, heavy fuel oil and feedstocks.
Canton, Ohio Refinery (97 mbpcd)
Our Canton refinery is located approximately 60 miles south of Cleveland, Ohio. The Canton refinery processes sweet and sour crude oils, including production from the nearby Utica Shale, into gasoline,
6
Table of Contents
distillates, asphalt, propane, petrochemicals, heavy fuel oil and feedstocks. The Canton refinery has earned designation as an OSHA VPP Star site.
Mandan, North Dakota Refinery (71 mbpcd)
The Mandan refinery processes primarily sweet domestic crude oil from North Dakota and manufactures gasoline, distillates, propane, heavy fuel oil and petrochemicals.
Salt Lake City, Utah Refinery (66 mbpcd)
Our Salt Lake City refinery is now the largest in Utah. The Salt Lake City refinery processes crude oil from Utah, Colorado, Wyoming and Canada to manufacture gasoline, distillates, propane, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks and petrochemicals.
West Coast Region (550 mbpcd)
Los Angeles, California Refinery (363 mbpcd)
Our Los Angeles refinery is located in Los Angeles County, near the Los Angeles Harbor. The Los Angeles refinery is the largest refinery on the West Coast and is a major producer of clean fuels. The Los Angeles refinery processes heavy crude from California’s San Joaquin Valley and Los Angeles Basin as well as crudes from the Alaska North Slope, South America, West Africa and other international sources and manufactures cleaner-burning CARB gasoline and CARB diesel fuel, as well as conventional gasoline, distillates, feedstocks, petrochemicals, heavy fuel oil and propane.
Anacortes, Washington Refinery (119 mbpcd)
Our Anacortes refinery is located about 70 miles north of Seattle on Puget Sound. The Anacortes refinery processes Canadian crude, domestic crude from North Dakota and Alaska North Slope and international crudes to manufacture gasoline, distillates, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, propane and petrochemicals.
Kenai, Alaska Refinery (68 mbpcd)
Our Kenai refinery is located on the Cook Inlet, 60 miles southwest of Anchorage. The Kenai refinery processes mainly Alaska domestic crude, domestic crude from North Dakota, along with limited international crude and manufactures distillates, gasoline, heavy fuel oil, feedstocks, asphalt, propane and petrochemicals.
Planned maintenance activities, or turnarounds, requiring temporary shutdown of certain refinery operating units, are periodically performed at each refinery. See Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional detail.
Refined Product Yields
The following table sets forth our refinery production by product group for each of the last three years including production from the refineries acquired in the Andeavor acquisition from October 1, 2018 forward.
																				
(mbpd)
		2020		2019		2018
Gasoline		1,314 			1,560 			1,107 	
Distillates		905 			1,087 			773 	
Feedstocks and petrochemicals		244 			315 			288 	
Asphalt		81 			87 			69 	
Propane		51 			55 			41 	
Heavy fuel oil		28 			49 			38 	
Total		2,623 			3,153 			2,316 	
7
Table of Contents
Crude Oil Supply
We obtain the crude oil we refine through negotiated term contracts and purchases or exchanges on the spot market. Our term contracts generally have market-related pricing provisions. The following table provides information on our sources of crude oil for each of the last three years. It includes crude sourced for the refineries acquired in the Andeavor acquisition from October 1, 2018 forward. The crude oil sourced outside of North America was acquired from various foreign national oil companies, production companies and trading companies.
																				
(mbpd)
		2020		2019		2018
United States		1,650 			1,962 			1,319 	
Canada		442 			541 			465 	
Middle East and other international		326 			399 			297 	
Total		2,418 			2,902 			2,081 	
Our refineries receive crude oil and other feedstocks and distribute our refined products through a variety of channels, including pipelines, trucks, railcars, ships and barges.
Renewable Fuels
During 2020, we completed the conversion of our Dickinson, North Dakota refinery into an approximately 184 million gallons per year renewable diesel facility.
We also progressed activities associated with the conversion of the Martinez refinery to a renewable diesel facility, including applying for permits, advancing discussions with feedstock suppliers, and beginning detailed engineering activities. As envisioned, the Martinez facility would start producing approximately 260 million gallons per year of renewable diesel by the second half of 2022, with a potential to build to full capacity of approximately 730 million gallons per year by the end of 2023. On February 24, 2021, MPC’s board of directors approved these plans.
We own a biofuel production facility in Cincinnati, Ohio that produces biodiesel, glycerin and other by-products. The capacity of the plant is approximately 91 million gallons per year.
Our wholly owned subsidiary, Virent, is an advanced biofuels facility in Madison, Wisconsin that is working to commercialize a process for converting biobased feedstocks into renewable fuels and chemicals.
We hold an ownership interest in ethanol production facilities in Albion, Michigan; Logansport, Indiana; Greenville, Ohio and Denison, Iowa. These plants have a combined ethanol production capacity of approximately 475 million gallons per year and are managed by our joint venture partner, The Andersons.
Refined Product Marketing
Our refined products are sold to independent retailers, wholesale customers, our brand jobbers and direct dealers. In addition, we sell refined products for export to international customers. As of December 31, 2020, there were 7,090 branded outlets in 35 states, the District of Columbia and Mexico where independent entrepreneurs primarily maintain Marathon-branded outlets. We also have long-term supply contracts for 1,093 direct dealer locations primarily in Southern California, largely under the ARCO® brand. We believe we are one of the largest wholesale suppliers of gasoline and distillates to resellers and consumers within our 41-state market area.
8
Table of Contents
The following table sets forth our refined product sales volumes by product group for each of the last three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the Andeavor acquisition from October 1, 2018 forward.
																	
(mbpd)
	2020		2019		2018
Gasoline	1,669 			1,967 			1,416 	
Distillates	1,040 			1,205 			847 	
Feedstocks and petrochemicals	323 			345 			289 	
Asphalt	86 			93 			70 	
Propane	69 			72 			44 	
Heavy fuel oil	35 			53 			37 	
Total	3,222 			3,735 			2,703 	
Refined Product Sales Destined for Export
We sell gasoline, distillates and asphalt for export, primarily out of our Garyville, Galveston Bay, Anacortes, Los Angeles and Kenai refineries. The following table sets forth our refined product sales destined for export by product group for the past three years including sales from the refineries acquired in the Andeavor acquisition from October 1, 2018 forward.
																	
(mbpd)
	2020		2019		2018
Gasoline	110 			131 			117 	
Distillates	187 			215 			193 	
Other	43 			51 			24 	
Total	340 			397 			334 	
Gasoline and Distillates
We sell gasoline, gasoline blendstocks and distillates (including No. 1 and No. 2 fuel oils, jet fuel, kerosene and diesel fuel) to wholesale customers, Marathon-branded jobbers, direct dealers and in the spot market. In addition, we sell diesel fuel and gasoline for export to international customers. The demand for gasoline and distillates is seasonal in many of our markets, with demand typically at its highest levels during the summer months.
Feedstocks and Petrochemicals
We are a producer and marketer of feedstocks and petrochemicals. Product availability varies by refinery and includes, among others, propylene, naphtha, butane, xylene, benzene, alkylate, cumene, raffinate, toluene and platformate. We market these products domestically to customers in the chemical, agricultural and fuel-blending industries. In addition, we produce fuel-grade coke at our Garyville, Detroit, Galveston Bay and Los Angeles refineries, which is used for power generation and in miscellaneous industrial applications, and anode-grade coke at our Los Angeles and Robinson refineries, in addition to calcined coke at our Los Angeles refinery, which are both used to make carbon anodes for the aluminum smelting industry.
Asphalt
We have refinery-based asphalt production capacity of up to 139 mbpcd, which includes asphalt cements, polymer-modified asphalt, emulsified asphalt, industrial asphalts and roofing flux. We have a broad customer base, including asphalt-paving contractors, resellers, government entities (states, counties, cities and townships) and asphalt roofing shingle manufacturers. We sell asphalt in the domestic and export wholesale markets via rail, barge and vessel.
Propane
We produce propane at all of our refineries. Propane is primarily used for home heating and cooking, as a feedstock within the petrochemical industry, for grain drying and as a fuel for trucks and other vehicles. Our propane sales are split approximately 80 percent and 20 percent between the home heating market and petrochemical consumers, respectively.
9
Table of Contents
Heavy Fuel Oil
We produce and market heavy residual fuel oil or related components, including slurry, at all of our refineries. Heavy residual fuel oil is primarily used in the utility and ship bunkering (fuel) industries, though there are other more specialized uses of the product.
Terminals and Transportation
We transport, store and distribute crude oil, feedstocks and refined products through pipelines, terminals and marine fleets owned by MPLX and third parties in our market areas.
We own a fleet of transport trucks and trailers for the movement of refined products and crude oil. In addition, we maintain a fleet of leased and owned railcars for the movement and storage of refined products.
The locations and detailed information about our Refining & Marketing assets are included under Item 2. Properties and are incorporated herein by reference.
Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality
The downstream petroleum business is highly competitive, particularly with regard to accessing crude oil and other feedstock supply and the marketing of refined products. We compete with a number of other companies to acquire crude oil for refinery processing and in the distribution and marketing of a full array of refined products. Based upon company data as reported in the “The Oil & Gas Journal 2020 Worldwide Refinery Survey,” we ranked first among U.S. petroleum companies on the basis of U.S. crude oil refining capacity.
We compete in four distinct markets for the sale of refined products—wholesale, including exports, spot, branded and retail distribution. Our marketing operations compete with numerous other independent marketers, integrated oil companies and high-volume retailers. We compete with companies in the sale of refined products to wholesale marketing customers, including private-brand marketers and large commercial and industrial consumers; companies in the sale of refined products in the spot market; and refiners or marketers in the supply of refined products to refiner-branded independent entrepreneurs. In addition, we compete with producers and marketers in other industries that supply alternative forms of energy and fuels to satisfy the requirements of our industrial, commercial and retail consumers.
Market conditions in the oil and gas industry are cyclical and subject to global economic and political events and new and changing governmental regulations. Our operating results are affected by price changes in crude oil, natural gas and refined products, as well as changes in competitive conditions in the markets we serve. Price differentials between sweet and sour crude oils, ANS, WTI and LLS crude oils and other market structure impacts also affect our operating results.
Demand for gasoline, diesel fuel and asphalt is higher during the spring and summer months than during the winter months in most of our markets, primarily due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and construction. As a result, the operating results for our Refining & Marketing segment for the first and fourth quarters may be lower than for those in the second and third quarters of each calendar year.
MIDSTREAM
The Midstream segment primarily includes the operations of MPLX, our sponsored MLP, and certain related operations retained by MPC.
MPLX
MPLX owns and operates a network of crude oil, natural gas and refined product pipelines and has joint ownership interests in other crude oil and refined products pipelines. MPLX also owns and operates light products terminals, storage assets and maintains a fleet of owned and leased towboats and barges. MPLX’s assets also include natural gas gathering systems and natural gas processing and NGL fractionation complexes.
10
Table of Contents
MPC-Retained Midstream Assets and Investments
We have ownership interests in several crude oil and refined products pipeline systems and pipeline companies and have indirect ownership interests in two ocean vessel joint ventures through our investment in Crowley Coastal Partners.
The locations and detailed information about our Midstream assets are included under Item 2. Properties and are incorporated herein by reference.
Competition, Market Conditions and Seasonality
Our Midstream operations face competition for natural gas gathering, crude oil transportation and in obtaining natural gas supplies for our processing and related services; in obtaining unprocessed NGLs for gathering, transportation and fractionation; and in marketing our products and services. Competition for natural gas supplies is based primarily on the location of gas gathering facilities and gas processing plants, operating efficiency and reliability, residue gas and NGL market connectivity, the ability to obtain a satisfactory price for products recovered and the fees charged for the services supplied to the customer. Competition for oil supplies is based primarily on the price and scope of services, location of gathering/transportation and storage facilities and connectivity to the best priced markets. Competitive factors affecting our fractionation services include availability of fractionation capacity, proximity to supply and industry marketing centers, the fees charged for fractionation services and operating efficiency and reliability of service. Competition for customers to purchase our natural gas and NGLs is based primarily on price, credit and market connectivity. In addition, certain of our Midstream operations are subject to rate regulation, which affects the rates that our common carrier pipelines can charge for transportation services and the return we obtain from such pipelines.
Our Midstream segment can be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the demand for natural gas and NGLs and the related fluctuations in commodity prices caused by various factors such as changes in transportation and travel patterns and variations in weather patterns from year to year.
REGULATORY MATTERS
Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including those relating to the protection of the environment. Such laws and regulations include, among others, the Clean Air Act (“CAA”) with respect to air emissions, the Clean Water Act (“CWA”) with respect to water discharges, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) with respect to solid and hazardous waste treatment, storage and disposal, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) with respect to releases and remediation of hazardous substances and the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA-90”) with respect to oil pollution and response. In addition, many states where we operate have similar laws. New laws are being enacted and regulations are being adopted on a continuing basis, and the costs of compliance with such new laws and regulations are very difficult to estimate until finalized.
For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance, see Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Environmental Matters and Compliance Costs. For additional information regarding regulatory risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Air
Greenhouse Gas Emissions
We believe it is likely that the scientific and political attention to greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, and climate adaptation will continue, with the potential for further regulations that could affect our operations. Currently, legislative and regulatory measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in various phases of review, discussion or implementation. Reductions in greenhouse gas emissions could result in increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities, (ii) install new emission controls at our facilities, (iii) capture the emissions from our facilities and (iv) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions programs, including acquiring emission credits or allotments.
In January 2021, President Biden announced that the United States was rejoining the 2015 Paris UN Climate Change Conference Agreement, effective February 19, 2021. President Biden also issued an Executive Order on climate change in which he announced putting the U.S. on a path to achieve net-zero carbon emissions, economy-wide, by 2050. The Executive Order also calls for the federal government to pause oil and gas leasing on federal lands, reduce methane emissions from the oil and gas sector as quickly as possible, and requires federal permitting decisions to consider the effects of greenhouse gas emissions
11
Table of Contents
and climate change. In a second Executive Order, President Biden reestablished a working group to develop the social cost of carbon and the social cost of methane. The social cost of carbon and social cost of methane can be used to weigh the costs and benefits of proposed regulations. A higher social cost of carbon could support more stringent greenhouse gas emission regulation.
States are becoming active in regulating greenhouse gas emissions. These measures may include state actions to develop statewide or regional programs to impose emission reductions. These measures may also include low-carbon fuel standards, such as the California program, or a state carbon tax. These measures could result in increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, capital expenditures to install new emission controls and costs to administer any carbon trading or tax programs implemented. For example, the California state legislature enacted AB 398, which provides direction and parameters on utilizing cap and trade after 2020 to meet the 40 percent reduction target from 1990 levels by 2030 specified in SB 32. Compliance with the cap and trade program is demonstrated through a market-based credit system. Much of the compliance costs associated with these California regulations are ultimately passed on to the consumer in the form of higher fuel costs. States are increasingly announcing aspirational goals to be net-zero carbon emissions by a certain date through both legislation and executive orders. To date, these states have not provided significant details as to achievement of these goals; however, meeting these aspirations will require a reduction in fossil fuel combustion and/or a mechanism to capture greenhouse gases from the atmosphere. As a result, we cannot currently predict the impact of these potential regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.
Other Air Emissions
In 2015, United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) finalized a revision to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (“NAAQS”) for ozone. The EPA lowered the primary ozone NAAQS from 75 ppb to 70 ppb. In December 2020, the EPA published a rule maintaining this standard. Designation as a nonattainment area could result in increased costs associated with, or result in cancellation or delay of, capital projects at our facilities, or could require nitrogen oxide (“NOx”) and/or volatile organic compound (“VOC”) reductions that could result in increased costs to our facilities.
In California, the Board for the South Coast Air Quality Management District (“SCAQMD”) passed amendments to the Regional Clean Air Incentives Market (“RECLAIM”) that became effective in 2016, requiring a staged reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions through 2022. In 2017, the State of California passed AB 617, which requires implementation of best available retrofit control technology (“BARCT”) on specific facilities, including facilities subject to RECLAIM. In response to AB 617, the SCAQMD is currently working to identify BARCT and determine whether to “sunset” the existing RECLAIM program. A “sunset” of the RECLAIM program and application of BARCT is expected to result in increased costs to operate and maintain our Los Angeles refinery.
Water
We maintain numerous discharge permits as required under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program of the CWA and have implemented systems to oversee our compliance with these permits. In addition, we are regulated under OPA-90, which, among other things, requires the owner or operator of a tank vessel or a facility to maintain an emergency plan to respond to releases of oil or hazardous substances. OPA-90 also requires the responsible company to pay resulting removal costs and damages and provides for civil penalties and criminal sanctions for violations of its provisions. We operate tank vessels and facilities from which spills of oil and hazardous substances could occur. We have implemented emergency oil response plans for all of our components and facilities covered by OPA-90 and we have established Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures plans for all facilities subject to such requirements. Some coastal states in which we operate have passed state laws similar to OPA-90, but with expanded liability provisions, that include provisions for cargo owner responsibility as well as ship owner and operator responsibility.
On October 22, 2019, the EPA and the United States Army Corps of Engineers (“Army Corps”) published a final rule to repeal the 2015 “Clean Water Rule: Definition of Waters of the United States” (“2015 Rule”), which amended portions of the Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”) to restore the regulatory text that existed prior to the 2015 Rule, effective December 23, 2019. The rule repealing the 2015 Clean Water Rule has been challenged in multiple federal courts. On April 21, 2020, the EPA and the Army Corps promulgated the Navigable Waters Protection Rule (“2020 Rule”) to define “waters of the United States.” The 2020 Rule has been challenged in court. The Biden administration has signaled its intent to revisit the definition of “waters of the United States,” and replace it with a definition consistent with the 2015 Rule. A
12
Table of Contents
broader definition could result in increased cost of compliance or increased capital costs for construction of new facilities or expansion of existing facilities.
In April 2020, the U.S. District Court in Montana vacated Nationwide Permit 12 (“NWP 12”), which authorizes the placement of fill material in “waters of the United States” for utility line activities as long as certain best management practices are implemented. The decision was ultimately appealed to the United States Supreme Court, which partially reversed the district court’s decision, temporarily reinstating NWP 12 for all projects except the Keystone XL oil pipeline. The United States Army Corps of Engineers subsequently reissued its nationwide permit authorizations on January 13, 2021, by dividing the NWP that authorizes utility line activities (NWP 12) into three separate NWPs that address the differences in how different utility line projects are constructed, the substances they convey, and the different standards and best management practices that help ensure those NWPs authorize only those activities that have no more than minimal adverse environmental effects. The 2021 authorization may be challenged in court or the Biden Administration may repeal or replace the 2021 authorization in a subsequent rulemaking. Repeal or replacement of the rule could impact pipeline maintenance activities.
As part of our emergency response activities, we have used aqueous film forming foam (“AFFF”) containing per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (“PFAS”) chemicals as a fire suppressant. At this time, AFFFs containing PFAS are the only proven foams that can prevent and control most flammable petroleum-based liquid fires.
In May 2016, the EPA issued lifetime health advisories (“HAs”) and health effects support documents for two PFAS substances - Perfluorooctanoic Acid (“PFOA”) and Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (“PFOS”). Then, in February 2019, EPA issued a PFAS Action Plan identifying actions the EPA is planning to take to study and regulate various PFAS chemicals. The EPA identified that it would evaluate, among other actions, (1) proposing national drinking water standards for PFOA and PFOS, (2) develop cleanup recommendations for PFOA and PFOS, (3) evaluate listing PFOA and PFOS as hazardous substances under CERCLA, and (4) conduct toxicity assessments for other PFAS chemicals. To date EPA has not issued any further regulations for PFAS under the Trump administration; however, the Biden Administration has indicated its intent to issue proposed rules to regulate PFAS, which could include the designation of variants of PFAS as CERCLA hazardous substances and/or establish national drinking water standards. Congress may also take further action to regulate PFAS. We cannot currently predict the impact of potential statutes or regulations on our operations or remediation costs.
In addition, many states are actively proposing and adopting legislation and regulations relating to the use of AFFF. Additionally, some states are adopting and proposing state-specific drinking water and cleanup standards for various PFAS. We cannot currently predict the impact of these regulations on our liquidity, financial position, or results of operations.
Solid Waste
We continue to seek methods to minimize the generation of hazardous wastes in our operations. RCRA establishes standards for the management of solid and hazardous wastes. Besides affecting waste disposal practices, RCRA also addresses the environmental effects of certain past waste disposal operations, the recycling of wastes and the regulation of USTs containing regulated substances.
Remediation
We own or operate, or have owned or operated, certain convenience stores and other locations where, during the normal course of operations, releases of refined products from USTs have occurred. Federal and state laws require that contamination caused by such releases at these sites be assessed and remediated to meet applicable standards. Penalties or other sanctions may be imposed for noncompliance. The enforcement of the UST regulations under RCRA has been delegated to the states, which administer their own UST programs. Our obligation to remediate such contamination varies, depending on the extent of the releases and the applicable state laws and regulations. A portion of these remediation costs may be recoverable from the appropriate state UST reimbursement funds once the applicable deductibles have been satisfied. We also have ongoing remediation projects at a number of our current and former refinery, terminal and pipeline locations.
Claims under CERCLA and similar state acts have been raised with respect to the clean-up of various waste disposal and other sites. CERCLA is intended to facilitate the clean-up of hazardous substances without regard to fault. Potentially responsible parties for each site include present and former owners and operators of, transporters to and generators of the hazardous substances at the site. Liability is strict and can be joint
13
Table of Contents
and several. Because of various factors including the difficulty of identifying the responsible parties for any particular site, the complexity of determining the relative liability among them, the uncertainty as to the most desirable remediation techniques and the amount of damages and clean-up costs and the time period during which such costs may be incurred, we are unable to reasonably estimate our ultimate cost of compliance with CERCLA; however, we do not believe such costs will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
Renewable Fuels and Other Fuels Requirements
The U.S. Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (“EISA”), which, among other things, set a target of 35 miles per gallon for the combined fleet of cars and light trucks in the United States by model year 2020. In March 2020, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (“NHTSA”) released the final Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient (“SAFE”) Vehicles Rule setting corporate average fuel economy (“CAFE”) and carbon dioxide (“CO2”) standards for model years 2021-2026 passenger cars and light trucks. The final rule increases the stringency of CAFE and CO2 emission standards by 1.5 percent each year from model years 2021 through 2026. The rule has been challenged in court and could be revised by the Biden Administration through notice and comment rulemaking. Higher CAFE standards for cars and light trucks have the potential to reduce demand for our transportation fuels.
In addition, the NHTSA and the EPA issued rules providing that the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (“EPCA”) preempts state regulations of tailpipe carbon dioxide emissions, withdrew the waiver granted to California for its Advanced Clean Car program and determined that the Clean Air Act permits other states to adopt only those California standards that are designed to control traditional “criteria pollutants.” California may establish per its Clean Air Act waiver authority different standards that could apply in multiple states. California’s governor issued an executive order requiring sales of all new passenger vehicles in the state be zero-emission by 2035. Other states have issued, or may issue, zero emission vehicle mandates. The Biden Administration could reinstate the California waiver and may take federal action to incentivize or mandate zero emission vehicle production.
Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the EISA, the EPA has promulgated a Renewable Fuel Standard (“RFS”) program that requires certain volumes of renewable fuel be blended with our products. By November 30 of each year, the EPA is required to promulgate the annual renewable fuel standards for the following compliance year. In a legal challenge to the 2014-2016 volumes, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the total renewable volume for 2016 and remanded to the EPA for reconsideration consistent with the court’s opinion. A rule that increases the total renewable volume for any compliance year to make up for the 2016 shortfall could increase our cost of compliance with the RFS program, require us to use carryover RINs and be detrimental to the RIN market.
The EPA has finalized the annual renewable fuel standards for the year 2020. For the first time, the EPA has proposed to reallocate to non-exempt obligated parties the renewable volume obligations of the refiners that were granted a small refinery exemption. Also, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals held that a small refinery is eligible for an exemption from the RFS only if it is applying for an extension of its original exemption. According to the EPA’s data, seven refineries were granted the small refinery exemption in 2015. The United States Supreme Court has granted certiorari in the 10th Circuit case. If the 10th Circuit decision is upheld, EPA’s reallocation of volumes could be greater than the actual volumes exempted in 2020. The reallocation of volumes under the 2020 rule or the invalidation of past small refinery exemptions granted to us or other refiners could result in a decrease in the RIN bank, an increase in the price of RINs or an increase in the amount of renewable fuel we are required to blend, any of which could increase MPC’s RFS cost of compliance. Further, the EPA has failed to promulgate timely the annual renewable fuel standards for 2021.
The RFS is satisfied primarily with ethanol blended into gasoline. Vehicle, regulatory and infrastructure constraints limit the blending of significantly more than 10 percent ethanol into gasoline (“E10”). Since 2016, the volume requirements have resulted in the ethanol content of gasoline exceeding the E10 blendwall, which will require obligated parties to either sell E15 or ethanol flex fuel at levels that exceed historical levels or retire carryover RINs.
There is currently no regulatory method for verifying the validity of the RINs sold on the open market. We have developed a RIN integrity program to vet the RINs that we purchase, and we incur costs to audit RIN generators. Nevertheless, if any of the RINs that we purchase and use for compliance are found to be invalid, we could incur costs and penalties for replacing the invalid RINs.
14
Table of Contents
In addition to the federal Renewable Fuel Standards, certain states have, or are considering, promulgation of state renewable or low carbon fuel standards. For example, California began implementing its Low Carbon Fuel Standard (“LCFS”) in January 2011. In September 2015, the CARB approved the re-adoption of the LCFS, which became effective on January 1, 2016, to address procedural deficiencies in the way the original regulation was adopted. The LCFS was amended again in 2018 with the current version targeting a 20 percent reduction in fuel carbon intensity from a 2010 baseline by 2030. We incur costs to comply with the California LCFS, and these costs may increase if the cost of LCFS credits increases.
In sum, the RFS has required, and may in the future continue to require, additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased renewable fuels use. We may experience a decrease in demand for refined products due to an increase in combined fleet mileage or due to refined products being replaced by renewable fuels. Demand for our refined products also may decrease as a result of low carbon fuel standard programs or electric vehicle mandates.
Safety Matters
We are subject to oversight pursuant to the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended (“OSHA”), as well as comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers. We believe that we have conducted our operations in substantial compliance with OSHA requirements, including general industry standards, record-keeping requirements and monitoring of occupational exposure to regulated substances.
We are also subject at regulated facilities to the OSHA’s Process Safety Management (“PSM”) and EPA’s Risk Management Program requirements, which are intended to prevent or minimize the consequences of catastrophic releases of toxic, reactive, flammable or explosive chemicals. The application of these regulations can result in increased compliance expenditures.
In general, we expect industry and regulatory safety standards to become stricter over time, resulting in increased compliance expenditures. While these expenditures cannot be accurately estimated at this time, we do not expect such expenditures will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
The DOT has adopted safety regulations with respect to the design, construction, operation, maintenance, inspection and management of our pipeline assets. These regulations contain requirements for the development and implementation of pipeline integrity management programs, which include the inspection and testing of pipelines and the correction of anomalies. These regulations also require that pipeline operation and maintenance personnel meet certain qualifications and that pipeline operators develop comprehensive spill response plans.
Tribal Lands
Various federal agencies, including the EPA and the Department of the Interior, along with certain Native American tribes, promulgate and enforce regulations pertaining to oil and gas operations on Native American tribal lands where we operate. These regulations include such matters as lease provisions, drilling and production requirements, and standards to protect environmental quality and cultural resources. In addition, each Native American tribe is a sovereign nation having the right to enforce certain laws and regulations and to grant approvals independent from federal, state and local statutes and regulations. These laws and regulations may increase our costs of doing business on Native American tribal lands and impact the viability of, or prevent or delay our ability to conduct, our operations on such lands.
TRADEMARKS, PATENTS AND LICENSES
Our Marathon and ARCO trademarks are material to the conduct of our refining and marketing operations, and our Speedway trademark is material to the conduct of our retail operations. We currently hold a number of U.S. and foreign patents and have various pending patent applications. Although in the aggregate our patents and licenses are important to us, we do not regard any single patent or license or group of related patents or licenses as critical or essential to our business as a whole. In general, we depend on our technological capabilities and the application of know-how rather than patents and licenses in the conduct of our operations.
HUMAN CAPITAL
We believe our employees are our greatest source of strength, and our culture reflects the quality of individuals across our workforce. Our collaborative efforts to foster an inclusive environment, provide
15
Table of Contents
broad-based development and mentorship opportunities, recognize and reward accomplishments, and offer benefits that support the well-being of our employees and their families contribute to increased engagement and fulfilling careers. Empowering our people and prioritizing accountability also are key components for developing MPC’s high-performing culture, which is critical to achieving our strategic vision.
Employee Profile
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 57,900 people in full-time and part-time roles. Excluding employees of Speedway, which is targeted to be sold in the first quarter of 2021, we employ approximately 18,600 people in full-time and part-time roles. Many of these employees provide services to MPLX, for which we are reimbursed in accordance with employee service agreements. Approximately 3,770 of the 18,600 employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Talent Management
Executing our strategic vision requires that we attract and retain the best talent. Recruiting and retention success requires that we effectively nurture new employees, providing opportunities for long-term engagement and career advancement. We also appropriately reward high-performers and offer competitive benefits. Our Talent Acquisition team consists of three segments: Executive Recruiting, Experienced Recruiting and University Recruiting. The specialization within each group allows us to specifically address MPC’s broad range of current and future talent needs, as well as devote time and attention to candidates during the hiring process. We value diverse perspectives in the workforce, and accordingly we seek candidates with a variety of backgrounds and experience. Our primary source of full-time, entry-level new hires is our intern/co-op program. Through our university recruiters, we offer college students who have completed their freshman year the opportunity to participate in our hands-on programs focused in areas of finance and accounting, marketing, engineering and IT.
We provide a broad range of leadership training opportunities to support the development of leaders at all levels. Our programs, which are offered across the organization are a blended approach of business and leadership content, with many featuring external faculty. We utilize various learning modalities, such as visual, audio, print, tactile, interactive, kinesthetic, experiential and leader-teaching-leader to address and engage different learning styles. We believe networking and access to our executive team are a key leadership success factor, and we incorporate these opportunities into all of our programs.
Compensation and Benefits
To ensure we are offering competitive pay packages in our recruitment and retention efforts, we annually benchmark compensation, including base salaries, bonus levels and equity targets. Our annual bonus program is a critical component of our compensation, as it provides individual reward for MPC’s achievement against preset financial and sustainability goals, encouraging a sense of employee ownership. Employees in our officer-level pay grades, as well as senior leaders and most mid-level leaders, are eligible to receive long-term equity incentive awards as part of their compensation.
We offer comprehensive benefits, including medical, dental and vision insurance for our employees, their spouses or domestic partners, and their dependents. We also provide retirement programs, life insurance, education assistance, family assistance, short-term disability and paid vacation and sick time. Following our acquisition of Andeavor, we enhanced several of our benefits programs to reflect our larger, coast-to-coast organization. We increased the maximum accrual cap for vacation banks and doubled the number of college and trade school scholarships offered to the high school senior children of our employees through the Marathon Petroleum Scholars Program. In addition, we increased our paid parental leave benefit to eight weeks for birth mothers and four weeks for nonbirth parents, including adoptive and foster parents. Both full-time and part-time employees are eligible for this benefit. Parents who both work for the company are each eligible for a parental pay benefit.
Inclusion
Our company-wide Diversity and Inclusion (“D&I”) program is managed by a dedicated D&I Office team and supported by leadership. Our program is based on our three-pillar D&I strategy, of building awareness, increasing representation and ensuring success. The strategy focuses on understanding the benefits of diverse perspectives, increasing diversity across the organization and recognizing that cultural inclusion is an ongoing process. We have employee networks focusing on six populations: Asian, Black, Hispanic, Veterans, Women and LGBTQ+. Our employee networks have approximately 60 chapters across the company and all networks encourage ally membership. This broad support extends also to our leaders throughout MPC, with each employee network represented by two active executive sponsors. The sponsors
16
Table of Contents
form several counsels that meet regularly to share updates, gain alignment, build deeper connections across networks and pursue collaboration ideas. Our employee networks not only provide opportunities for our employees to make meaningful and supportive connections, but they also serve a significant role in our D&I strategy.
Safety
We are committed to safe operations to protect the health and safety of our employees, contractors and communities. Our commitment to safe operations is reflected in our safety systems design, our well-maintained equipment and by learning from our incidents. Part of our effort to promote safety includes a management system based on the principles of RC14001®, the Plan-Do-Check-Act continual improvement cycle, and our Operational Excellence Management System. Together, these components of our safety management system provide us with a comprehensive approach to managing risks and preventing incidents, illnesses and fatalities. Additionally, our annual cash bonus program metrics includes several employee, process and environmental safety metrics.
The COVID-19 pandemic has underscored for us the importance of keeping our employees safe and healthy. In March 2020, MPC activated its Corporate Emergency Response Team to ensure a consistent and aggressive response across all facets of our company. The safety and health of our employees, including our essential personnel, were our top priorities. As part of our existing pandemic plan, we had a central inventory of N95 respirators, surgical masks, and nitrile gloves to supply to our employees and contractors when the pandemic began. We implemented a number of protective measures to ensure employee and contractor safety as they continued to keep our critical operations running safely. We continue to monitor the situation and adapt our practices as appropriate.
Information about our Executive and Corporate Officers
The executive and corporate officers of MPC are as follows:
														
Name		Age as of
February 1,
2021		Position with MPC
Michael J. Hennigan		61		President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Maryann T. Mannen		58		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Timothy T. Griffith		51		President, Speedway LLC
Raymond L. Brooks		60		Executive Vice President, Refining
Brian C. Davis		55		Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer
Suzanne Gagle		55		General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Government Affairs
Fiona C. Laird*		59		Chief Human Resources Officer and Senior Vice President, Communications
Ehren D. Powell*		41		Chief Digital Officer and Senior Vice President
C. Tracy Case*		60		Senior Vice President, Western Refining Operations
David R. Heppner*		54		Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development
Richard A. Hernandez*		61		Senior Vice President, Eastern Refining Operations
Rick D. Hessling*		54		Senior Vice President, Global Feedstocks
Thomas Kaczynski		59		Senior Vice President, Finance, and Treasurer
Brian K. Partee*		47		Senior Vice President, Global Clean Products
John J. Quaid		49		Senior Vice President and Controller
James R. Wilkins*		54		Senior Vice President, Health, Environment, Safety and Security
Molly R. Benson*		54		Vice President, Chief Securities, Governance & Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary
Kristina A. Kazarian*		38		Vice President, Investor Relations
D. Rick Linhardt*		62		Vice President, Tax
Glenn M. Plumby*		61		Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Speedway LLC
* Corporate officer.
17
Table of Contents
Mr. Hennigan was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer effective March 2020, and as a member of the Board of Directors effective April 2020. He also has served as Chief Executive Officer of MPLX since November 2019 and as President since June 2017. Before joining MPLX, Mr. Hennigan was President, Crude, NGL and Refined Products, of the general partner of Energy Transfer Partners L.P., an energy service provider. He was President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., an oil and gas transportation, terminalling and storage company, from 2012 to 2017, President and Chief Operating Officer beginning in 2010, and Vice President, Business Development, beginning in 2009.
Ms. Mannen was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective January 25, 2021. Before joining MPC, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TechnipFMC (a successor to FMC Technologies, Inc.), a global leader in subsea, onshore/offshore, and surface projects for the energy industry, since 2017, having previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of FMC Technologies, Inc. since 2014, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2011, and in various positions of increasing responsibility with FMC Technologies, Inc. since 1986.
Mr. Griffith was appointed President, Speedway LLC, effective July 2019. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer beginning in 2015, Vice President, Finance and Investor Relations, and Treasurer beginning in 2014, and Vice President of Finance and Treasurer beginning in 2011.
Mr. Brooks was appointed Executive Vice President, Refining, effective October 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President, Refining, beginning in March 2016, General Manager of the Galveston Bay refinery beginning in 2013, General Manager of the Robinson refinery beginning in 2010, and General Manager of the St. Paul Park, Minnesota refinery beginning in 2006.
Mr. Davis was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer effective February 1, 2021. Before joining MPC, he spent 32 years with Royal Dutch Shell, a multinational oil and gas company, in roles spanning the full oil and gas value chain, including most recently as Global Vice President, Energy Solutions, from 2016 to 2020. Previous positions with Royal Dutch Shell include service as Group Vice President, Corporate Strategy, from 2014 to 2016, Global Vice President, Base Chemicals, from 2011 to 2014, Global Vice President, Downstream Strategy, from 2009 to 2011 and General Manager, Refining and Supply Strategy, from 2005 to 2009.
Ms. Gagle was appointed General Counsel and Senior Vice President, Government Affairs, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, she served as General Counsel beginning in March 2016, Assistant General Counsel, Litigation and Human Resources, beginning in 2011, Senior Group Counsel, Downstream Operations, beginning in 2010, and Group Counsel, Litigation, beginning in 2003.
Ms. Laird was appointed Chief Human Resources Officer and Senior Vice President, Communications, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, she served as Chief Human Resources Officer beginning in October 2018, having previously served as Chief Human Resources Officer at Andeavor beginning in February 2018. Before joining Andeavor, Ms. Laird was Chief Human Resources and Communications Officer for Newell Brands, a global consumer goods company, beginning in May 2016 and Executive Vice President, Human Resources, for Unilever, a global consumer goods company, beginning in 2011.
Mr. Powell was appointed Chief Digital Officer and Senior Vice President effective July 20, 2020. Before joining MPC, he served as Vice President and Chief Information Officer (“CIO”) at GE Healthcare, a segment of General Electric Company (“GE”) that provides medical technologies and services, beginning in April 2018, having previously served as Senior Vice President and CIO, Services, of GE, a multinational conglomerate, since January 2017 and CIO, Power Services, with GE Power since 2014, and in various positions of increasing responsibility with GE and its subsidiaries since 2000.
Mr. Case was appointed Senior Vice President, Western Refining Operations, effective October 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as General Manager of the Garyville refinery beginning in 2014, and General Manager of the Detroit refinery beginning in 2010.
Mr. Heppner was appointed Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President, Commercial and Business Development, beginning in October 2018, Senior Vice President of Engineering Services and Corporate Support of Speedway LLC beginning in 2014, and Director, Wholesale Marketing, beginning in 2010.
18
Table of Contents
Mr. Hernandez was appointed Senior Vice President, Eastern Refining Operations, effective October 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as General Manager of the Galveston Bay refinery beginning in February 2016, and General Manager of the Catlettsburg refinery beginning in 2013.
Mr. Hessling was appointed Senior Vice President, Global Feedstocks, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President, Crude Oil Supply and Logistics, beginning in October 2018, Manager, Crude Oil & Natural Gas Supply and Trading, beginning in 2014, and Crude Oil Logistics & Analysis Manager beginning in 2011.
Mr. Kaczynski was appointed Senior Vice President, Finance, and Treasurer effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President, Finance, and Treasurer since 2015. Before joining MPC, Mr. Kaczynski was Vice President and Treasurer of Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, one of the world’s largest tire manufacturers, beginning in 2014, and Vice President, Investor Relations, beginning in 2013.
Mr. Partee was appointed Senior Vice President, Global Clean Products, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President, Marketing, beginning in October 2018, Vice President, Business Development, beginning in February 2018, Director of Business Development beginning in January 2017, Manager of Crude Oil Logistics beginning in 2014, and Vice President, Business Development and Franchise, at Speedway beginning in 2012.
Mr. Quaid was appointed Senior Vice President and Controller effective April 1, 2020. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President and Controller beginning in 2014. Before joining MPC, Mr. Quaid was Vice President of Iron Ore at United States Steel Corporation, an integrated steel producer, beginning in 2014, and Vice President and Treasurer beginning in 2011.
Mr. Wilkins was appointed Senior Vice President, Health, Environment, Safety and Security, effective February 24, 2021. Prior to this appointment, he served as Vice President, Environment, Safety and Security, beginning in October 2018, Director, Environment, Safety, Security and Product Quality, beginning in February 2016, and Director, Refining Environmental, Safety, Security and Process Safety Management, beginning in 2013.
Ms. Benson was appointed Vice President, Chief Securities, Governance & Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary effective June 2018, having previously served as Vice President, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary since March 2016. Prior to her 2016 appointment, she served as Assistant General Counsel, Corporate and Finance, beginning in 2012, and Group Counsel, Corporate and Finance, beginning in 2011.
Ms. Kazarian was appointed Vice President, Investor Relations, effective April 2018. Before joining MPC, she was Managing Director and head of the MLP, Midstream and Refining Equity Research teams at Credit Suisse, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in September 2017. Previously, Ms. Kazarian was Managing Director of MLP, Midstream and Natural Gas Equity Research at Deutsche Bank, a global investment bank and financial services company, beginning in 2014, and an analyst specializing on various energy industry subsectors with Fidelity Management & Research Company, a privately held investment manager, beginning in 2005.
Mr. Linhardt was appointed Vice President, Tax, effective February 2018. Prior to this appointment, he served as Director of Tax beginning in June 2017, and Manager of Tax Compliance beginning in 2013.
Mr. Plumby was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Speedway LLC, effective August 2019. Prior to this appointment, he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Speedway LLC, beginning in January 2018, Senior Vice President of Operations, Speedway LLC, beginning in 2013, and Vice President of Operations, Speedway LLC, beginning in 2010.
19
Table of Contents
Available Information
General information about MPC, including our Corporate Governance Principles, our Code of Business Conduct and our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, can be found at www.marathonpetroleum.com under the “Investors” tab by selecting “Corporate Governance.” In addition, our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers are also available in this same location. We will post on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, either of our codes requiring disclosure under applicable rules within four business days of the amendment or waiver. Charters for the Audit Committee, Compensation and Organization Development Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Sustainability Committee are also available at this site under the “About” tab by selecting “Board of Directors.”
MPC uses its website, www.marathonpetroleum.com, as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including news releases, analyst presentations, financial information and market data. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments and exhibits to those reports, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. These documents are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting our Investor Relations office. In addition, our website allows investors and other interested persons to sign up to automatically receive email alerts when we post news releases and financial information on our website. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or other securities filings.
