General

 

Monolithic Power Systems (“MPS”) is a leading semiconductor company that designs, develops and markets high-performance power solutions. Incorporated in 1997, our core strengths include deep system-level and applications knowledge, strong analog design expertise and innovative proprietary process technologies. These combined strengths enable us to deliver highly integrated monolithic products that offer energy-efficient, cost-effective, easy-to-use solutions for systems found in computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer applications. Our mission is to reduce total energy consumption in our customers’ systems with green, practical and compact solutions. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy-efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions. We plan to continue to introduce new products within our existing product families, as well as in new innovative product categories.

 

Our principal executive office is located in Kirkland, Washington. We have over 2,200 employees worldwide, with locations in Asia (primarily in China, India, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan), Europe (primarily in France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom), and the United States.

 

Industry Overview

 

Semiconductors comprise the basic building blocks of electronic systems and equipment. Within the semiconductor industry, components can be classified either as discrete devices, such as individual transistors or integrated circuits (“ICs”), in which a number of transistors and other elements are combined to form a more complicated electronic circuit. ICs can be further divided into three primary categories: digital, analog, and mixed-signal. Digital ICs, such as memory devices and microprocessors, can store or perform arithmetic functions on data that is represented by a series of ones and zeroes. Analog ICs, in contrast, handle real world signals such as temperature, pressure, light, sound, or speed. In addition, analog ICs also perform power management functions, such as regulating or converting voltages, for electronic devices. Mixed-signal ICs combine digital and analog functions onto a single chip and play an important role in bridging real world to digital systems.

 

Analog and Mixed-Signal Markets.  We focus on the market for high performance analog and mixed-signal ICs. High performance products generally are differentiated by functionality and performance factors, which include integration of higher levels of functionality onto a single chip, greater precision, higher speed and lower heat and noise. There are several key factors that distinguish the analog and mixed-signal IC markets from digital IC markets. These factors include longer product life cycles, numerous market segments, technology that is difficult to replicate, relative complexity of design and process technologies, importance of experienced design engineers, lower capital requirements and diversity of end markets.  We have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above-average growth over the long term compared to the semiconductor industry as a whole.

 

End Markets and Applications

 

We design and develop our products for the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets, with the computing and storage market representing the largest portion of our revenue in 2020. The following table is a summary of the various end market applications for our products, and those markets’ contribution as a percentage of our total revenue: 

 
  	  	  	  	

Percentage of Total Revenue
	 

End Markets
	  	

Applications
	  	

2020
	  	  	

2019
	  	  	

2018
	 

Computing and storage
	  	

Storage networks, computers and notebooks, printers, servers and workstations
	  	  	30.0 	% 	  	  	30.1 	% 	  	  	27.3 	%

Automotive
	  	

Infotainment, safety and connectivity applications
	  	  	12.9 	% 	  	  	14.4 	% 	  	  	13.8 	%

Industrial
	  	

Power sources, security, point-of-sale systems, smart meters and other industrial equipment
	  	  	14.2 	% 	  	  	15.8 	% 	  	  	15.2 	%

Communications
	  	

Networking and telecommunication infrastructure, routers and modems, wireless access points and voice over IP
	  	  	16.8 	% 	  	  	13.5 	% 	  	  	12.1 	%

Consumer
	  	

Set-top boxes, monitors, gaming, lighting, chargers, home appliances, cellular handsets, wearables, digital video players, GPS, televisions, stereos and cameras
	  	  	26.1 	% 	  	  	26.2 	% 	  	  	31.6 	%

 
5
Table of Contents

 

Product Families

 

Our proprietary process technologies enable us to design and deliver smaller, single-chip power management ICs. These technologies simplify the design process, and are applicable across a wide range of analog applications within the computing and storage, automotive, industrial, communications and consumer markets. Our product families are differentiated with respect to their high degree of integration and strong levels of accuracy and efficiency, making them cost-effective relative to many competing solutions. Our key product families include the following:

 

Direct Current (“DC”) to DC Products. DC to DC ICs are used to convert and control voltages within a broad range of electronic systems, such as portable electronic devices, wireless LAN access points, computers and notebooks, monitors, infotainment applications and medical equipment. We believe that our DC to DC products are differentiated in the market, particularly with respect to their high degree of integration, high voltage operation, high load current, high switching speed and small footprint. These features are important to our customers as they result in fewer components, a smaller form factor, more accurate regulation of voltages, and, ultimately, lower system cost and increased reliability through the elimination of many discrete components and power devices. The DC to DC product family accounted for 95%, 94% and 92% of our total revenue in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 

  

Lighting Control Products. Lighting control ICs are used in backlighting and general illumination products. Lighting control ICs for backlighting are used in systems that provide the light source for LCD panels typically found in computers and notebooks, monitors, car navigation systems and televisions. Backlighting solutions are typically either white light emitting diode lighting sources or cold cathode fluorescent lamps. The Lighting Control product family accounted for 5%, 6% and 8% of our total revenue in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.

 

In the future, we plan to continue to introduce additional new products within our existing product families, as well as expand our newer product families. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend in part upon our ability to enter new market segments, gain market share, grow in regions outside of China, Taiwan and other Asian markets, expand our customer base and continue to secure manufacturing capacity.

 

Customers, Sales and Marketing

 

We sell our products through third-party distributors, value-added resellers and directly to original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”), original design manufacturers (“ODMs”), electronic manufacturing service (“EMS”) providers and other end customers. Our third-party distributors are subject to distribution agreements with us, which allow the distributors to sell our products to end customers and other resellers, including OEMs, ODMs or EMS providers.  Our value-added resellers may second source our products and provide other services to customers. ODMs typically design and manufacture electronic products on behalf of OEMs, and EMS providers typically provide manufacturing services for OEMs and other electronic product suppliers.  

 

Sales to our largest distributor accounted for 24% of our total revenue in 2020, 23% in 2019, and 22% in 2018. In addition, one other distributor accounted for 11% of our total revenue in 2020 and 10% in 2018. No other distributors or end customers accounted for more than 10% of our full-year, total revenue in any of the periods presented.

 

Current distribution agreements with several of our major distributors provide that each distributor has the non-exclusive right to sell and use its best efforts to promote and develop a market for our products. These agreements provide that payment for purchases from us will generally occur within 30 to 90 days from the date of invoice. In addition, we allow for limited stock rotation in certain agreements.

  

We have sales offices located in China, India, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, the United States and throughout Europe. Our products typically require a highly technical sales and applications engineering effort where we assist our customers in the design and use of our products in their application. We maintain a staff of applications engineers who work directly with our customers’ engineers in the development of their systems’ electronics containing our products.

 

Because our sales are primarily billed and payable in United States dollars, our sales are generally not subject to fluctuating currency exchange rates. However, because a majority of our revenue is attributable to sales to customers in Asia, changes in the relative value of the dollar may create pricing pressures for our products. In 2020, 2019 and 2018, our revenue from sales to customers in Asia was 91%, 89% and 88%, respectively.

 

Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard individual purchase orders. Our backlog consists of orders that we have received from customers which have not yet shipped. Because orders in backlog are subject to cancellation or postponement, and backlog at any particular date is not necessarily representative of actual sales for any succeeding period, we believe that our backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenue.

 
6
Table of Contents

 

Our manufacturing lead times are generally 16 to 26 weeks and we often build inventory in advance of customer orders based on our forecast of future customer orders. This subjects us to certain risks, most notably the possibility that sales will not meet our forecast, which could lead to inventories in excess of demand. If excess inventory exists, it may be necessary for us to sell it at a substantial discount, take a significant write-down or dispose of it altogether, all of which would negatively affect our profit margins. In addition, in response to market conditions, we may slow the rate of manufacturing our products, which could result in insufficient inventory levels if we underestimate the demand for our products.

 

We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain of our products. While we are not immune from current and future industry downturns, we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the long term.

 

Research and Development

 

We have assembled a qualified team of engineers primarily in China, Spain, Taiwan and the United States, with core competencies in analog and mixed-signal design. Through our research and development efforts, we have developed a collection of intellectual property and know-how that we are able to leverage across our products and markets. These include the development of high efficiency power devices, the design of precision analog circuits, expertise in mixed-signal integration and the development of proprietary semiconductor process technologies.

 

Our research and development efforts are generally targeted at three areas: systems architecture, circuit design and implementation, and process technologies. In the area of systems architecture, we are exploring new ways of solving our customers’ system design challenges and are investing in the development of systems expertise in new markets and applications that align well with our core capabilities. In the area of circuit design and implementation, our initiatives include expanding our portfolio of products and adding new features to our products. In the area of process technologies, we are investing research and development resources to provide leading-edge analog power processes for our next generation of integrated circuits. Process technologies are key strategic components to our future growth. 

 

Patents and Intellectual Property Matters

 

We rely on our proprietary technologies, which include both our proprietary circuit designs for our products and our proprietary manufacturing process technologies. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain protection of our proprietary technologies.

 

In general, we have elected to pursue patent protection for aspects of our circuit and device designs that we believe are patentable and to protect our manufacturing process technologies by maintaining those process technologies as trade secrets. As of December 31, 2020, we had 1,327 patents/applications issued or pending, of which 475 patents have been issued in the United States. Our issued patents are scheduled to expire at various times through December 2039. Our patents are material to our business, but we do not rely on any one particular patent for our success. We also rely on a combination of nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions, as well as our employees’ commitment to confidentiality and loyalty, to protect our technology, know-how and processes. We also seek to register certain of our trademarks as we deem appropriate. We have not registered any of our copyrights and do not believe registration of copyrights is material to our business. Despite precautions that we take, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy aspects of our current or future technology or products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. There can be no assurance that the steps we take will be adequate to protect our proprietary rights, that our patent applications will lead to issued patents, that others will not develop or patent similar or superior products or technologies, or that our patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. Furthermore, the laws of the countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Our failure to adequately protect our proprietary technologies could materially harm our business.

 

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims of infringement and litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Patent infringement is an ongoing risk, in part because other companies in our industry could have patent rights that may not be identifiable when we initiate development efforts. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, and we may have to defend ourselves against infringement claims. Any such litigation could be very costly and may divert our management resources. Further, we have agreed to indemnify certain of our customers and suppliers in some circumstances against liability from infringement by our products. In the event any third party were to make an infringement claim against us or our customers, we could be enjoined from selling selected products, could be required to indemnify our customers or suppliers, or could pay royalties or other damages to third parties. If any of our products are found to infringe and we are unable to obtain necessary licenses or other rights on acceptable terms, we would either have to change our product so that it does not infringe or stop making the infringing product, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows.

 
7
Table of Contents

 

Manufacturing

 

We utilize a fabless business model, working with third parties to manufacture and assemble our ICs. This fabless approach allows us to focus our engineering and design resources on our strengths and to reduce our fixed costs and capital expenditures. In contrast to many fabless semiconductor companies, which utilize standard process technologies and design rules established by their foundry partners, we have developed our own proprietary process technologies and collaborate with our foundry partners to install our technologies on their equipment in their facilities for use on our behalf. This close collaboration and control over the manufacturing process has historically resulted in favorable yields and product performance for our ICs.

 

We currently contract with several suppliers to manufacture our wafers in foundries located in China, Taiwan and Korea. Once our silicon wafers have been produced, they are shipped to our facility in Chengdu, China for wafer sort, which is a testing process performed to identify non-functioning dies. Our semiconductor products are then assembled and packaged by independent subcontractors in China and Malaysia. The assembled ICs are then sent either for final testing at our Chengdu facility, or to other turnkey providers who perform final testing based on our standards prior to shipping to our customers.

 

We have a 60,000 square-foot manufacturing facility located in Chengdu, China, which enables us to benefit from shorter manufacturing cycle times and lower labor and overhead costs. We have expanded our product testing capabilities in this facility and are able to take advantage of the rich pool of local engineering talent to expand our manufacturing support and engineering operations.

 

Competition

 

The analog and mixed-signal semiconductor industry is highly competitive, and we expect competitive pressures to continue. Our ability to compete effectively and to expand our business will depend on our ability to continue to recruit both applications engineering and design engineering personnel, our ability to introduce new products, and our ability to maintain the rate at which we introduce these new products. Our industry is characterized by decreasing average selling prices over the life of a product. We compete with domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of their products and, in some cases, have a broader number of product offerings that may enable them to more effectively market and sell to customers. We are in direct and active competition, with respect to one or more of our product lines, with several manufacturers of such products, of varying size and financial strength. We consider our primary competitors to include Analog Devices, Infineon Technologies, Maxim Integrated Products, NXP Semiconductors, ON Semiconductor, Power Integrations, Renesas Electronics, ROHM Semiconductor, Semtech and Texas Instruments.

 

We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants into the semiconductor market. We believe that we are competitive in the markets in which we sell, particularly because our ICs typically are smaller in size, are highly integrated, possess higher levels of power management functionalities and achieve high performance specifications at lower price points than most of our competition. However, there is no assurance that our products will continue to compete favorably or that we will be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering this market. In addition, there has recently been a high level of consolidation in the semiconductor industry. If these or future acquisitions are successful, competition may intensify and our competitors may have additional resources to compete against us.

  

Seasonality

 

Our revenue and operating results tend to vary seasonally. Historically, our revenue has generally been higher in the second half of the year than in the first half, although various factors, such as market conditions and the timing of key product introductions, could impact this trend.

 

Government Regulations

 

We are subject to international, federal and local legislation, regulations, and other requirements relating to the discharge of substances into the environment; the treatment, transport, and disposal of hazardous wastes; recycling and product packaging; worker health and safety; and other activities affecting the environment, our workforce, and the management of our manufacturing operations. We believe that our operations and facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws.

 
8
Table of Contents

 

We are also subject to import/export controls, tariffs, and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in the countries in which we have operations or otherwise do business. In recent years, these controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions have had, and we believe may continue to have, a material impact on our business, including our ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components.

 

Government regulations can be complex and are subject to change in the future, and accordingly, we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements. Our efforts to comply with these government regulations could have material impacts on our capital expenditures and operating expenses, resource allocation, competitive position, or financial condition, though the magnitude and duration of such impacts are uncertain and difficult to quantify. Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for further discussion of material risks related to government policies and regulations on environmental laws, international trade policies and restrictions, including tariffs on imports of foreign goods and regulations restricting the export of goods and services between the U.S. and China.

 

   Human Capital

 

Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. Due to the relative complexity of the design of our analog and mixed-signal ICs, our engineers generally have many years of experience and greater circuit design aptitude. Analog engineers with advanced skills are limited in number and difficult to replace. The loss of the services of key officers, managers, engineers and other technical personnel would materially harm our business. Our future success depends, in part, on our ability to attract, train, retain, and motivate highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. Our employees are not represented by a collective bargaining organization, and we have never experienced a work stoppage or strike. As of December 31, 2020, we employed 2,209 employees primarily located in Asia, Europe and the United States, compared with 2,002 employees as of December 31, 2019.

 

Competition for talent in the semiconductor industry is strong, and compensation is critical to our recruiting and retention philosophy, especially given our rapid growth and our need to attract talented employees with a broad range of skills. Our total compensation packages are competitive, fair, and structured to encourage employees to invest in our future. Our employee benefits programs include a combination of supplemental benefits including paid time off for holidays and vacations, health insurance and other plan benefits.

 

We are an equal-opportunity employer, and we make employment decisions based on merit and business needs. We are committed to providing a healthy and safe environment for all our workers. Our Worker Health and Safety Plan is certified to ISO45001 standards, the world’s voluntary, international standard for occupational health and safety. We believe that certifying to these standards enables our company to provide safe and healthy workplaces by preventing work-related injury and health issues.

 
9
Table of Contents

 

Available Information

 

Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that are filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge. They may be obtained from our website at www.monolithicpower.com under “Investor Relations” as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such documents with, or furnish them to, the SEC, or at the SEC website at www.sec.gov. We also make available on our website the charters for our audit committee, compensation committee, and nominating and corporate governance committee, our code of ethics, our director voting policy and our code of social responsibility. In addition, we intend to disclose on our website any amendments to, or waivers from, our codes of business conduct, our code of social responsibility and our report on environment, social responsibility and governance.  Information contained on our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

 

Information About Executive Officers

 

Information regarding our executive officers as of March 1, 2021 is as follows:

 

Name
	

 
	

Age
	

 
	

Position

Michael Hsing
	

 
	

61
	

 
	

President, Chief Executive Officer and Director

Bernie Blegen
	

 
	

63
	

 
	

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Deming Xiao
	

 
	

58
	

 
	

President of Asia Operations

Maurice Sciammas
	

 
	

61
	

 
	

Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing

Saria Tseng
	

 
	

50
	

 
	

Vice President, Strategic Corporate Development, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary


Michael Hsing has served on our Board of Directors and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since founding MPS in August 1997. Prior to founding MPS, Mr. Hsing was a Senior Silicon Technology Developer at several analog IC companies, where he developed and patented key technologies, which set new standards in the power electronics industry. Mr. Hsing is an inventor on numerous patents related to the process development of bipolar mixed-signal semiconductor manufacturing. Mr. Hsing holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Florida.

 

Bernie Blegen has served as our Chief Financial Officer since July 2016 and is responsible for finance, accounting, tax, treasury and investor relations. From August 2011 to June 2016, Mr. Blegen served as our Corporate Controller. Prior to joining MPS, Mr. Blegen held a number of executive finance and accounting positions for other publicly traded technology companies, including Xilinx, Inc. and Credence Systems. Mr. Blegen holds a B.A. from the University of California, Santa Barbara.

 

Deming Xiao has served as our President of Asia Operations since January 2008. Since joining us in May 2001, Mr. Xiao has held several executive positions, including Foundry Manager and Senior Vice President of Operations. Before joining MPS, from June 2000 to May 2001, Mr. Xiao was Engineering Account Manager at Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing, Inc. Prior to that, Mr. Xiao spent six years as the Manager of Process Integration Engineering at Fairchild Imaging Sensors. Mr. Xiao holds a B.S. in Semiconductor Physics from Sichuan University, Chengdu, China and an M.S.E.E. from Wayne State University.

 

Maurice Sciammas has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing since 2007. Mr. Sciammas joined MPS in July 1999 and served as Vice President of Products and Vice President of Sales (excluding greater China) until he was appointed to his current position. Before joining MPS, he was Director of IC Products at Supertex from 1990 to 1999. He has also held positions at Micrel, Inc. He holds a B.S.E.E. degree from San Jose State University.

 

Saria Tseng has served as our Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since 2004 and additionally as our Vice President, Strategic Corporate Development since 2009. Ms. Tseng joined the Company from MaXXan Systems, Inc., where she was Vice President and General Counsel from 2001 to 2004. Previously, Ms. Tseng was an attorney at Gray Cary Ware & Freidenrich, LLP and Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue. Ms. Tseng is a member of the state bar in both California and New York and is a member of the bar association of the Republic of China (Taiwan). Ms. Tseng currently serves on the Board of Directors of Super Micro Computer, Inc., a global leader in high performance server technology. Ms. Tseng holds Masters of Law degrees from the University of California at Berkeley and the Chinese Culture University in Taipei.

 
