General
Marathon Oil Corporation (NYSE: MRO) is an independent exploration and production company incorporated in 2001, focused on U.S. resource plays: the Eagle Ford in Texas, the Bakken in North Dakota, STACK and SCOOP in Oklahoma and Northern Delaware in New Mexico. Our U.S. assets are complimented by our international operations in E.G. Our corporate headquarters is located at 5555 San Felipe Street, Houston, Texas 77056-2723 and our telephone number is (713) 629-6600. Each of our two reportable operating segments are organized by geographic location and managed according to the nature of the products and services offered. The two segments are:
•United States – explores for, produces and markets crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas in the United States;
•International – explores for, produces and markets crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas outside of the United States as well as produces and markets products manufactured from natural gas, such as LNG and methanol, in E.G.
Business Strategy
Our overall business strategy is to deliver competitive and improving corporate level returns and sustainable free cash flow through a disciplined reinvestment rate capital allocation framework. Our framework prioritizes free cash flow generation across a broad range of commodity prices by limiting our capital expenditures relative to our expected cash flow from operations. Our strategy includes making a significant portion of our cash flow from operations available for investor-friendly purposes, prioritizing return of capital to shareholders and balance sheet enhancement. We are committed to creating long-term value for shareholders. Protecting our balance sheet, keeping our workforce safe, minimizing our environmental impact, and strong corporate governance are foundational to the execution of our strategy.
mro-20201231_g2.jpg
In February 2021, we announced a 2021 Capital Budget of $1.0 billion, which is effectively a maintenance Capital Budget. We expect this maintenance-level Capital Budget will allow us to keep total company oil production in 2021 consistent with our fourth quarter 2020 exit rate. Our 2021 Capital Budget is consistent with our capital allocation framework that prioritizes corporate returns and free cash flow generation over production growth.
The risks associated with COVID-19 impacted our workforce and the way we meet our business objectives. Due to concerns over health and safety, the vast majority of our corporate workforce works remotely for at least a portion of the time. We have begun a process for a phased return of employees to the office. Working remotely has not significantly impacted our
5

ability to maintain operations, has allowed our field offices to operate without any disruption, and has not caused us to incur significant additional expenses; however, we are unable to predict the duration or ultimate impact of these measures.
We have taken action in response to the macro challenges and the uncertainty associated with the timeline for recovery. Our response has included reducing our 2020 and 2021 capital expenditure programs, lowering our cost structure and protecting our balance sheet, liquidity and cash generation. We believe our financial strength, quality portfolio and ongoing focus on reducing our cost structure better position us to navigate a variety of commodity price environments. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a more detailed discussion of our operating results, cash flows and liquidity.
Our portfolio is concentrated in our core operations in the U.S. resource plays and E.G. The map below shows the locations of our U.S. operations:
mro-20201231_g3.jpg
6

Segment Information
In the following discussion regarding our United States and International segments, references to net wells, acres, sales or investment indicate our ownership interest or share, as the context requires.
United States Segment
We are engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production activities in the U.S. Our primary focus in the United States segment is concentrated within our four high-quality resource plays. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further detail on current year results.
United States – U.S. Resource Plays
Eagle Ford – We have been operating in the South Texas Eagle Ford play since 2011, where our acreage is located in the high-return Karnes, Atascosa, Gonzales and Lavaca Counties. Our focus is capital efficient development with a goal of maximizing returns and free cash flow generation. We operate 32 central gathering and treating facilities across the play that support more than 1,600 producing wells. We also own and operate the Sugarloaf gathering system, a 42-mile natural gas pipeline through the heart of our acreage in Karnes and Atascosa Counties.
Bakken – We have been operating in the Williston Basin since 2006. The majority of our core acreage is within McKenzie, Mountrail and Dunn Counties in North Dakota targeting the Middle Bakken and Three Forks reservoirs. We continue focusing our investment in our high-return Myrmidon and Hector areas, while also delineating and extending our core acreage across the rest of our position.
Oklahoma – With a history in Oklahoma that dates back more than 100 years, our primary focus has been development in the STACK Meramec and SCOOP Woodford, while progressing delineation of other plays across our footprint. We primarily hold net acreage with rights to the Woodford, Springer, Meramec, Osage and other prospect intervals, with a majority of this in the SCOOP and STACK.
Northern Delaware – We have been operating in the Northern Delaware basin, which is located within the greater Permian area, since closing on two major acquisitions in 2017. Our focus has been to strategically advance our position, progress early delineation and development of our acreage, improve our cost structure and secure midstream solutions. We have the majority of our acreage in Eddy and Lea counties primarily in the Wolfcamp and Bone Spring New Mexico plays.
United States – Resource Exploration
In the second quarter of 2020, Marathon Oil completed its 2020 REx drilling program. We continued delineation of our contiguous 58,000 net acreage position in the Texas Delaware Oil Play and successfully brought online four Woodford wells and two Meramec wells since entering the play. These wells demonstrated strong productivity, low decline and low water/oil ratios relative to the industry Delaware Basin Wolfcamp and Bone Spring wells and advanced our geologic understanding of the play.
We evaluated the geologic potential of our 186,000 net acre position in the Louisiana Austin Chalk and determined that approximately 78,000 acres remain in the prospective core of the formation. We will continue our assessment of the prospective acreage. We also recognized an impairment of an abandoned well and the unproved acreage that we determined was non-core. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail about the impairments.
International Segment
We are engaged in oil and gas development and production activities in E.G. We include the results of our investments in the LPG processing plant, gas liquefaction operations and methanol production operations in E.G. in our International segment.
International
Equatorial Guinea – We own a 63% operated working interest under a production sharing contract in the Alba field and an 80% operated working interest in Block D, both of which are offshore E.G. Operational availability from our company-operated facilities averaged approximately 99% in 2020.
Equatorial Guinea – Gas Processing – We own a 52% interest in Alba Plant LLC, accounted for as an equity method investment, which operates an onshore LPG processing plant located on Bioko Island. Alba field natural gas is processed by the LPG plant under a fixed-price long-term contract. The LPG plant extracts secondary condensate and LPG from the natural gas stream and uses some of the remaining dry natural gas in its operations.
7

We also own 60% of EGHoldings and 45% of AMPCO, both accounted for as equity method investments. EGHoldings operates a 3.7 mmta LNG production facility and AMPCO operates a methanol plant, both located on Bioko Island. These facilities allow us to further monetize natural gas production from the Alba field. The LNG production facility sells LNG under a 3.4 mmta sales and purchase agreement. Under the current agreement, which runs through 2023, the purchaser takes delivery of the LNG on Bioko Island, with pricing linked principally to the Henry Hub index. Gross sales of LNG from this production facility totaled approximately 3 mmta in 2020. AMPCO had gross sales totaling approximately 827 mt in 2020. Methanol production is sold to customers in Europe and the U.S.
During 2019, we executed agreements for third-party gas through existing E.G. infrastructure, the initial step in creating an E.G. gas hub. Natural gas from the Alen field will be processed through the existing Alba Plant LLC LPG processing plant and the EGHoldings LNG production facility. Alen’s first gas production was achieved in February 2021. Our equity method investees will process the Alen gas under a combination of a tolling and profit-sharing arrangement, the benefits of which will be included in our respective share of income from equity method investees.
Reserves
Proved reserves are required to be disclosed by continent and by country if the proved reserves related to any geographic area, on an oil equivalent barrel basis, represent 15% or more of our total proved reserves. A geographic area can be an individual country, group of countries within a continent, or a continent. For additional detail on reserves, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities.
The following tables set forth estimated quantities of our total proved crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas reserves based upon SEC pricing for period ended December 31, 2020.
																													
	Crude Oil and Condensate
(mmbbl)		Natural Gas Liquids
(mmbbl)		Natural Gas
(bcf)		Total
(mmboe)		Total (%)
Proved Developed Reserves									
U.S. 	301 			110 			827 			549 			56 	%
E.G. 	23 			14 			526 			125 			13 	%
Total proved developed reserves (mmboe)
	324 			124 			1,353 			674 			69 	%
Proved Undeveloped Reserves									
U.S. 	182 			45 			347 			286 			30 	%
E.G. 	3 			2 			48 			12 			1 	%
Total proved undeveloped reserves (mmboe)
	185 			47 			395 			298 			31 	%
Total Proved Reserves									
U.S. 	483 			155 			1,174 			835 			86 	%
E.G. 	26 			16 			574 			137 			14 	%
Total proved reserves (mmboe)
	509 			171 			1,748 			972 			100 	%
Total proved reserves (%)	52 	%		18 	%		30 	%		100 	%		








8

Productive and Drilling Wells
For our United States and International segments, the following table sets forth gross and net productive wells, service wells and drilling wells as of December 31 for the years presented.
																																															
 	Productive Wells		 		 		 		 
 	Oil		Natural Gas		Service Wells		Drilling Wells
  
	Gross		Net		Gross		Net		Gross		Net		Gross		Net
2020															
U.S.	5,225 			2,302 			1,592 			648 			198 			21 			16 			6 	
E.G.	— 			— 			19 			12 			— 			— 			— 			— 	
Total 	5,225 			2,302 			1,611 			660 			198 			21 			16 			6 	
2019															
U.S. 	4,984 			2,195 			1,550 			615 			204 			20 					
E.G.	— 			— 			19 			12 			— 			— 					
Total (a)
	4,984 			2,195 			1,569 			627 			204 			20 					
2018															
U.S.	4,630 			2,056 			1,703 			655 			209 			21 					
E.G.	— 			— 			19 			12 			— 			— 					
Other International	62 			22 			11 			4 			24 			8 					
Total	4,692 			2,078 			1,733 			671 			233 			29 					
(a)Other International was removed from 2019 due to the sale of our U.K. business and our 15% non-operated interest in the Atrush block in Kurdistan. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.

Drilling Activity
Our drilling activity was lower during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 and 2018 driven by the macro environment and the reduction in our Capital Budget. The table below sets forth the number of net productive and dry development and exploratory wells completed as of December 31 for the years represented, all of which reside in our United States segment, unless noted in the table below.
																	
	December 31,
	2020		2019		2018
Development 					
Oil 	103		197		171
Natural Gas	15		28		25
Dry 	—		—		—
Total Development 	118		225		196
					
Exploratory 					
Oil 	30		57		66
Natural Gas	14		26		36
Dry(a)
	—		2		3
Total Exploratory 	44		85		105
					
Total 	162		310		301
(a)2018 includes one dry well in our E.G. segment associated with the Rodo well in Alba Block Sub Area B, offshore E.G.





9

Acreage
We believe we have satisfactory title to our United States and International properties in accordance with standards generally accepted in the industry; nevertheless, we can be involved in title disputes from time to time that may result in litigation. In the case of undeveloped properties, an investigation of record title is made at the time of acquisition. Drilling title opinions are usually prepared before commencement of drilling operations. Our title to properties may be subject to burdens such as royalty, overriding royalty, carried, net profits, working and other similar interests and contractual arrangements customary in the industry. In addition, our interests may be subject to obligations or duties under applicable laws or burdens such as net profits interests, liens related to operating agreements, development obligations or capital commitments under international production sharing contracts or exploration licenses.
The following table sets forth, by geographic area, the gross and net developed and undeveloped acreage held as of December 31, 2020.
																																			
 	Developed		Undeveloped		Developed and
Undeveloped
(In thousands)	Gross		Net		Gross		Net		Gross		Net
U.S.	1,380 			993 			306 			247 			1,686 			1,240 	
E.G.	82 			67 			— 			— 			82 			67 	
Total	1,462 			1,060 			306 			247 			1,768 			1,307 	
In the ordinary course of business, based on our evaluations of certain geologic trends and prospective economics, we have allowed certain lease acreage to expire and may allow additional acreage to expire in the future. If production is not established or we take no other action to extend the terms of the leases, undeveloped acreage listed in the table below could expire over the next three years. We plan to continue the terms of certain of these leases through operational or administrative actions. There are no material quantities of net proved undeveloped reserves assigned to expiring undeveloped acreage in the next three years.
																	
	Net Undeveloped Acres Expiring
	Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands)	2021		2022		2023
U.S.	94 			48 			94 	
E.G.	— 			— 			— 	
Total	94 			48 			94 	
10

Net Sales Volumes
At December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Eagle Ford, Bakken and Oklahoma fields in the United States contained 15% or more of our total proved reserves. Production for these fields along with our production from fields containing less than 15% of our total proved reserves are presented in the table below.
																	
 	December 31,
	2020		2019		2018
Net Sales Volumes 					
Crude oil and condensate (mbbld) (a)
					
United States					
Eagle Ford	61 			63 			63 	
Bakken	79 			86 			71 	
Oklahoma	17 			21 			18 	
Northern Delaware	15 			16 			12 	
 Other U.S. 	5 			4 			7 	
Africa					
E.G. 	13 			15 			17 	
Libya	— 			— 			7 	
Other International (b)
	— 			5 			15 	
Total	190 			210 			210 	
Natural gas liquids (mbbld)					
United States					
Eagle Ford	18 			22 			23 	
Bakken	14 			9 			7 	
Oklahoma	20 			22 			20 	
Northern Delaware	5 			6 			4 	
 Other U.S. 	2 			1 			1 	
Africa					
E.G. 	9 			9 			11 	
Total	68 			69 			66 	
Natural gas (mmcfd) (c)
					
United States					
Eagle Ford	121 			130 			129 	
Bakken	70 			46 			35 	
Oklahoma	177 			210 			213 	
Northern Delaware	41 			36 			26 	
 Other U.S. 	14 			16 			26 	
Africa					
E.G. 	330 			365 			416 	
Libya	— 			— 			5 	
Other International (b)
	— 			6 			14 	
Total	753 			809 			864 	
Total sales volumes (mboed)					
United States					
Eagle Ford	99 			106 			108 	
Bakken	105 			103 			84 	
Oklahoma	66 			78 			74 	
Northern Delaware	27 			28 			20 	
 Other U.S. 	9 			8 			12 	
Africa					
E.G. 	77 			85 			97 	
Libya	— 			— 			8 	
Other International (b)
	— 			6 			17 	
Total	383 			414 			420 	
(a)The amounts correspond with the basis for fiscal settlements with governments, representing equity tanker liftings and direct deliveries of liquid hydrocarbons.
(b)Other International sales include sales volumes for the U.K. and the Atrush block in Kurdistan, which were both sold in 2019 and sales volumes for the non-operated Sarsang block in Kurdistan which was sold in 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
(c)Includes natural gas acquired for injection and subsequent resale.
11

Average Sales Price and Production Costs per Unit are presented by geographic area.
																	
 	December 31,
(Dollars per unit)	2020		2019		2018
Average Sales Price per Unit (a)
					
Crude oil and condensate (bbl)					
United States	$	35.93 			$	55.80 			$	63.11 	
Africa					
E.G. 	28.36 			48.99 			55.28 	
Libya	— 			— 			73.75 	
Total Africa	28.36 			48.99 			60.65 	
Other International (b)
	— 			64.71 			70.39 	
Total 	$	35.39 			$	55.54 			$	63.32 	
					
Natural gas liquids (bbl)					
United States	$	11.28 			$	14.22 			$	24.54 	
Africa					
E.G. (c)
	1.00 			1.00 			1.00 	
Total Africa	1.00 			1.00 			1.00 	
Other International (b)
	— 			37.88 			41.66 	
Total 	$	9.97 			$	12.46 			$	20.85 	
					
Natural gas (mcf)					
United States	$	1.77 			$	2.18 			$	2.65 	
Africa					
E.G. (c)
	0.24 			0.24 			0.24 	
Libya	— 			— 			4.57 	
Total Africa	0.24 			0.24 			0.30 	
Other International (b)
	— 			5.67 			8.03 	
Total 	$	1.10 			$	1.33 			$	1.58 	
					
Average Production Costs per Unit (d)
					
U.S. 	$	8.40 			$	9.08 			$	9.83 	
E.G. 	2.16 			2.34 			1.91 	
Libya	— 			— 			4.35 	
Other International (b)
	— 			30.42 			30.02 	
Total 	$	7.15 			$	8.03 			$	8.68 	
(a)Excludes gains or losses on commodity derivative instruments.
(b)Other International sales include sales volumes for the U.K. and the Atrush block in Kurdistan, which were both sold in 2019 and sales volumes for the non-operated Sarsang block in Kurdistan which was sold in 2018. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information.
(c)Primarily represents fixed prices under long-term contracts with Alba Plant LLC, AMPCO and/or EGHoldings, which are equity method investees. We include our share of income from each of these equity method investees in our International segment.
(d)Taxes other than income (such as production, severance and property taxes) are excluded; however, shipping and handling as well as other operating expenses are included in the production costs used in this calculation. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Supplementary Information on Oil and Gas Producing Activities – Results of Operations for Oil and Gas Production Activities for more information regarding production costs.




12

Marketing
Our reportable operating segments include activities related to the marketing and transportation of substantially all of our crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas. These activities include the transportation of production to market centers, the sale of commodities to third parties and the storage of production. We balance our various sales, storage and transportation positions in order to aggregate volumes to satisfy transportation commitments and to achieve flexibility within product types and delivery points. Such activities can include the purchase of commodities from third parties for resale.
Major Customers
We are exposed to credit risk in the event of nonpayment by counterparties, a significant portion of which are concentrated in energy-related industries. The creditworthiness of customers and other counterparties is subject to continuing review, including the use of master netting agreements, where appropriate. In 2020, sales to Marathon Petroleum Corporation and Koch Resources LLC and each of their respective affiliates, accounted for approximately 13% and 12% of our total revenues. In 2019, sales to Marathon Petroleum Corporation, Koch Resources LLC, Valero Marketing and Supply and Shell Trading and each of their respective affiliates, accounted for approximately 13%, 13%, 11% and 10% of our total revenues. In 2018, sales to Valero Marketing and Supply and Koch Resources LLC and their respective affiliates, each accounted for approximately 11% of our total revenues.
Gross Delivery Commitments
We have committed to deliver gross quantities of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas to customers under a variety of contracts. As of December 31, 2020, the contracts for fixed and determinable quantities were at variable, market-based pricing and related primarily to the following commitments:
																																
		2021		2022		2023		Thereafter		Commitment Period Through
Eagle Ford										
Crude and condensate (mbbld)
		33		—		—		—		2021
Natural gas (mmcfd)
		148		128		92		12		2025
Bakken										
Crude and condensate (mbbld)
		21		12		10		5 - 10 		2027
Natural gas (mmcfd)
		14		—		—		—		2021
Other United States										
Natural gas (mmcfd)
		4		1		—		—		2022
All of these contracts provide the option of delivering third-party volumes or paying a monetary shortfall penalty if production is inadequate to satisfy our commitment. In addition to the contracts discussed above, we have entered into numerous agreements for transportation and processing of our equity production. Some of these contracts have volumetric requirements which could require monetary shortfall penalties if our production is inadequate to meet the terms.
Competition
Competition exists in all sectors of the oil and gas industry and we compete with major integrated and independent oil and gas companies, national oil companies, and to a lesser extent, companies that supply alternative sources of energy. We compete, in particular, in the exploration for and development of new reserves, acquisition of oil and natural gas leases and other properties, the marketing and delivery of our production into worldwide commodity markets and for the labor and equipment required for exploration and development of those properties. Principal methods of competing include geological, geophysical and engineering research and technology, experience and expertise, economic analysis in connection with portfolio management and safely operating oil and gas producing properties. See Item 1A. Risk Factors for discussion of specific areas in which we compete and related risks.
Government Regulations
Our businesses are subject to numerous laws and regulations, including those related to oil and gas exploration and production and to the protection of health, environment and safety. New laws have been enacted or are otherwise being considered and regulations are being adopted by various regulatory agencies on a continuing basis and the costs of compliance with these new laws and regulations can only be broadly appraised until their implementation becomes more defined. However, the new federal administration has indicated its intent to increase regulatory oversight of oil and gas activity specifically, and to
13

put climate change at the forefront of its policy initiatives. We expect these policies to be wide-ranging and include executive branch action to address climate change and accelerate development of renewable resources.
The new administration has already issued a number of executive and temporary orders that address broad ranging issues including climate change, oil and gas activities on federal lands, infrastructure, and environmental justice. At this time, applicability of the actions taken by the new administration appear to largely exclude tribal lands and we do not believe that the new executive and temporary orders currently in effect will have a material adverse impact on our business. Amendments or extensions along with implementation of the announced policy positions and initiatives that flow from these orders may have a material adverse impact on our business.
We also expect continued introduction of legislation on issues that may impact our business including climate change, COVID-19 relief, tax matters and access to capital.
While there are not currently regulations proposed or pending that we believe will result in material capital, operating, tax or other costs to the business at this time, such regulations could be proposed and/or passed into law in 2021 or beyond. Other regulations currently in place could be withdrawn and replaced with more stringent requirements in 2021 or beyond.
The Health, Environmental, Safety and Corporate Responsibility Committee of our Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing our position on public issues, including environmental, health and safety matters. Our Corporate Health, Environment, Safety and Security organization has the responsibility to ensure that our operating organizations maintain environmental compliance systems that support and foster our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Committees comprised of certain of our officers review our overall performance associated with various environmental compliance programs. We also have a Corporate Emergency Response Team which oversees our response to any major environmental or other emergency incident involving us or any of our properties.
Environmental Remediation and Waste Management
Our business is subject to laws relating to remediation of environmental pollution and the storage, handling and disposal of waste. These laws and their implementing regulations and other similar state and local laws and rules can impose certain operational controls for minimization of pollution or recordkeeping, monitoring and reporting requirements or other operational or siting constraints on our business, result in costs to remediate releases of regulated substances, including crude oil and produced water, into the environment, or require costs to remediate sites to which we sent regulated substances for disposal. In some cases, these laws can impose strict liability for the entire cost of clean-up on any responsible party without regard to negligence or fault and impose liability on us for the conduct of others (such as prior owners or operators of our assets) or conditions others have caused, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. We have incurred and will continue to incur capital, operating and maintenance and remediation expenditures as a result of environmental laws and regulations.
Waste regulations include those for management, storage, transportation and disposal. Additional or expanded regulations relating to oilfield waste may be adopted that potentially impact the costs of compliance, handling, management and availability of disposal options.
Air and Climate Change
Concerns about emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases and their role in climate change may affect us and other similarly situated companies operating in the oil and gas industry. Further, recent actions by the federal government have signaled an intent to take significant action to address climate change. In addition, legislative proposals to address some of these issues have already begun and we expect additional proposals under the current federal administration that may become law. Until such proposals or actions are in final form, we cannot fully evaluate potential impacts, but as part of our commitment to environmental stewardship and as required by law, we estimate and publicly report greenhouse gas emissions from our operations. We are also working to continuously improve the accuracy and completeness of these estimates. Moreover, we are making a concentrated effort to improve operational and energy efficiencies through resource and energy conservation. Finally, we have also undertaken initiatives to reduce our flaring and GHG emissions intensity and have added a GHG emissions intensity target to our short-term incentive annual cash bonus scorecard to better reflect these initiatives.
Government entities and other groups have filed lawsuits in several states and other jurisdictions seeking to hold a wide variety of companies that produce fossil fuels liable for the alleged impacts of the greenhouse gas emissions attributable to those fuels. The lawsuits allege damages as a result of global warming and the plaintiffs are seeking unspecified damages and abatement under various tort theories. Marathon Oil has been named as a defendant in several of these lawsuits, along with numerous other companies. Similar lawsuits may be filed in other jurisdictions. While the ultimate outcome and impact to us cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the claims made against us are without merit and will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow.
14

The EPA finalized a more stringent NAAQS for ozone in October 2015. States that contain any areas designated as non-attainment, and any tribes that choose to do so, will be required to complete development of implementation plans in the 2021-2022 time frame. The EPA may in the future designate additional areas as non-attainment, including areas in which we operate. In August 2020, EPA completed its review of the ozone NAAQS and proposed to retain the 2015 standard without revision. The final rule has not yet been published. The implementation of the 2015 standard, or the promulgation of a future more stringent standard, may result in an increase in costs for emission controls and requirements for additional monitoring and testing, as well as a more cumbersome permitting process. Although there may be an adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and increased regulatory requirements) associated with this revised regulation, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding any additional measures and how they will be implemented.
Hydraulic Fracturing
Hydraulic fracturing is a commonly used process that involves injecting water, sand and small volumes of chemicals into the wellbore to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing rock thousands of feet below the surface to facilitate higher flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore. Our business uses this technique extensively throughout our operations. Hydraulic fracturing has been regulated at the state and local level through permitting and compliance requirements.
The new federal administration has included as part of its platform actions that could amount to a de facto ban on hydraulic fracturing on federal lands (and there is some question as to whether this could extend to tribal lands). Further, state and local-level initiatives may be proposed in regions with substantial shale resources to further regulate hydraulic fracturing practices, limit water withdrawals and water use, require disclosure of fracturing fluid constituents, restrict which additives may be used, or implement temporary or permanent bans on hydraulic fracturing. Although there may be an adverse financial impact (including compliance costs, potential permitting delays and increased regulatory requirements) associated with these initiatives, the extent and magnitude of that impact cannot be reliably or accurately estimated due to the present uncertainty regarding any additional measures and how they will be implemented.
Water
In 2014, the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers published proposed regulations which expand the surface waters that are regulated under the federal CWA and its various programs. While these regulations were finalized largely as proposed in 2015, the rule was stayed by the courts pending a substantive decision on the merits. In October 2019, EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers issued a final rule that repealed the 2015 regulations and reinstated the agencies’ narrower pre-2015 scope of federal CWA jurisdiction. In January 2020, EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers promulgated a new WOTUS definition that continues to provide a narrower scope of federal CWA jurisdiction than contemplated under the 2015 WOTUS definition, while also providing for greater predictability and consistency of federal CWA jurisdiction. That rule was published in April 2020 and became effective in June 2020 except for in the state of Colorado, where the rule is stayed pending a challenge by the State of Colorado. Judicial challenges to EPA’s 2019 and 2020 rules are currently before multiple federal district courts. If the October 2019 final rule is vacated and the 2015 rule is ultimately implemented, or if the current administration promulgates a new rule similar in scope to the 2015 rule, the expansion of CWA jurisdiction will result in additional costs of compliance as well as increased monitoring, recordkeeping and recording for some of our facilities.
Other Oil and Gas Regulations
In November 2016, the BLM issued a final rule to further restrict venting and/or flaring of gas from facilities subject to BLM jurisdiction, and to modify certain royalty requirements. Following judicial challenge, the court invalidated the rule. If this ruling is overturned on appeal, or the new administration re-issues a similar or more stringent rule, the requirements could result in additional costs of compliance as well as increased monitoring, recordkeeping and recording for some of our facilities.
For a discussion of environmental capital expenditures and costs of compliance for air, water, solid waste and remediation matters, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Environmental Matters, Litigation and Contingencies
For additional information, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Trademarks, Patents and Licenses
We currently hold U.S. and foreign patents. Although in the aggregate our trademarks and patents are important to us, we do not regard any single trademark, patent, or group of related trademarks or patents as critical or essential to our business as a whole.


15

Human Capital Management
Oversight and Management
We believe talent is one of the critical capabilities foundational to delivering on our corporate strategy. Intentional human capital management strategies enable us to attract, develop, retain and reward our dedicated employees. Marathon believes in creating a safe, clean and ethical environment where employees feel empowered to make a difference to achieve business objectives and strategies. Our Vice President of Human Resources has leadership accountability for our workforce management policies and programs and reports directly to our CEO. Our Board provides oversight to our human capital management strategies as an integral part of our overall Enterprise Risk Management process. Due to the importance of our workforce capabilities, the Board receives updates on our human capital management on a regular cadence, including the review of compensation, benefits, succession, HES and corporate social responsibility. Please visit marathonoil.com/sustainability for information on all dimensions of our corporate social responsibility.
Our People
We believe in promoting an inclusive corporate culture to ensure the strength and resilience of our business. Respectful relationships are core to our culture. Our Code of Business Conduct, which applies to our directors, officers and employees, prohibits workplace harassment, violence and discrimination against anyone based on race, age, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity and other factors. This code applies to all aspects of employment at Marathon Oil – recruitment, training, development, compensation, performance management and benefits. We select, develop and promote employees based on the individual’s ability and job performance.
Our Talent Landscape
As of December 31, 2020, we had 1,672 active, full-time employees worldwide. Approximately 73% of our full-time workforce was based in the United States with 27% in Equatorial Guinea. Through recruiting, training, workforce integration, education and vocational programs, we strive to have a workforce reflective of the areas in which we operate. In 2020 and as a result of prioritized nationalization efforts, 90% of our Marathon EG Production Limited (MEGPL), workforce was Equatoguinean. For information on our Executive Officers, see Information About Our Executive Officers

For the U.S. workforce, our average tenure for full-time employees was 8 years, with 28% of our full-time population having 10 or more years of experience. As of December 31, 2020, women and minorities accounted for 34% and 30% of our U.S. full-time workforce, respectively. We encourage diversity and inclusion and cultivate our collaborative team environment by making training courses on diversity and inclusive leadership available to all employees. We support Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to promote diverse perspectives, encourage networking and allow continuous development activities. In 2020, we launched an additional ERG to continue our efforts towards promoting a diverse and inclusive culture. Additionally, we are implementing a new workforce flexibility program in 2021 to capitalize on our learnings working from home in 2020 while preserving our collaborative and One Team culture. The new flexibility program will provide broader options for our employees to better manage their career, work-life balance and overall well-being.

Recognizing the cyclical nature of our business and the dynamic talent demands, we conduct a proactive risk analysis as part of our Enterprise Risk Management process, including a multi-year view of any potential talent risks to ensure we are prepared to respond to the macro- environment while setting ourselves up for long-term success. We fully leverage our common asset team organizational structure to drive knowledge sharing, collaboration and talent deployment across these teams resulting in efficiency gains and enhanced execution. Our partners and contractors are an essential element to our business and we follow a well-defined, rigorous evaluation process to ensure the partners we select uphold our expectations and core values. We utilize a managed service provider to oversee efficient administration, equitable treatment and compliance auditing of our contingent labor workforce.
Health, Environment and Safety
We believe safety is a core value and engrained in all aspects of our business. We uphold our safety and health culture by attracting, developing and retaining individuals and partners who share our commitment to operational excellence. Marathon Oil’s leadership establishes clear expectations to all personnel to comply with internal and external safety and health requirements. Furthermore, our Health, Environment and Safety (HES) values are embedded within our culture and the support we provide to our employees. We provide and require job specific HES training for our employees and full-time contractors as part of our Responsible Operations Management Systems or ROMS, which is a comprehensive operations integrity management system. This training includes stop the job authority extended to all employees and contractors in the event of a potential safety risk or environmental impact.

16

We leverage our collective talent and seek diverse employee perspectives to address complex issues and events through the use of multi-functional teams and committees such as our internal Centralized Emergency Response Team (CERT) and Emissions Management Committee (EMC). Specifically, our comprehensive response to COVID-19 leaned heavily on our CERT team and our business continuity plans to protect both our workforce and sustain the essential services that our company provides. The EMC prioritizes GHG and methane emissions reduction opportunities across our enterprise and ensures appropriate funding is in place as part of our overall capital allocation process. Our commitment to addressing the dual challenge of meeting the world’s growing energy demands while also taking action on climate change is evidenced by GHG intensity featuring prominently as a metric linked directly to compensation outcomes.

Our values to collaborate, take ownership, be bold and deliver results enable us to excel, but that’s only possible if our workforce is safe. We actively look out for each other, maintain a safe work environment, continuously improve our procedures and train our workforce. Marathon Oil utilizes ROMS to manage risk and ensure a safe, healthy and secure workplace where all those involved can work free of injury and illness. Our Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) is one of the metrics we use to measure our success in providing a safe working environment and is linked directly to compensation outcomes. Marathon strives to only partner with contractors who share our same commitment to safety and environmental impact. We carefully evaluate contractors through a rigorous supply chain process to verify they possess all necessary safety and health programs to execute work in a manner that meets our expectations.
Benefits
We attract and retain talent by offering benefit programs that are competitive and comprehensive. These programs create flexibility that allows employees to receive the benefits that we believe allow employees to develop a career and overall well-being for themselves and their families. In 2021, we increased our family leave to create additional optionality for a greater portion of our employees to better manage their career and overall well-being. Our goal is to support employees with benefit programs that are consistent with our company's vision and strategies. We align the value of the benefit programs to the local markets where we compete for talent, along with the oil and gas industry. We believe effective communication around our benefit programs helps ensure we understand employees' perceptions and values around our benefits and to confirm our employees understand the breadth and value of the benefits provided.
Compensation
Our success is based on financial performance and operational results, and we believe that our compensation program is an important driver of that success. The primary objectives of our programs are to pay for performance, encourage long-term stockholder value and pay competitively. To accomplish this our compensation program is designed to reward employees for their performance and motivate them to continue to perform at a high level through both absolute feedback and relative performance assessment. The annual cash bonus is our short-term incentive for eligible employees which reinforces both corporate and individual annual performance and prioritizes both financial and operational metrics. Eligible employees may also receive long-term incentives in the form of restricted stock awards that vest over multiple years to support retention and aligns employee interests with those of our stockholders, by driving value at the enterprise level. To pay competitively, we provide market-competitive pay levels to attract and retain the best talent. We regularly benchmark each component of our pay program, including our benefit programs against our peers and a broader subset of the oil and gas industry, to ensure we remain competitive. See the “Compensation Discussion and Analysis” section of our Annual Proxy for information on our Executive Officers.
Talent Development
We take a multi-pronged approach to organizational learning which is driven through our centralized on-demand development hub and informed by our enterprise-wide talent assessment process. Our organizational learning approach blends online, on-the-job and classroom training with 360 assessments and leadership coaching to ensure all employees receive the feedback, tools and time they need to reach their fullest potential. Continuous leadership development is offered to all leaders throughout the year and content is intentionally focused on learning objectives.

We review talent across the enterprise, measuring both technical and leadership capabilities. Our talent planning processes are aligned and consistent across the organization to ensure top talent occupies our most critical roles. Our succession process is designed to ensure we have identified the experiences and exposures needed to set employees up for success in future senior leadership roles.
17

Information About our Executive Officers
The executive officers of Marathon Oil and their ages as of February 1, 2021, are as follows:
														
Lee M. Tillman		59		Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Dane E. Whitehead		59		Executive Vice President—Chief Financial Officer
Patrick J. Wagner		56		Executive Vice President—Corporate Development and Strategy
Mike Henderson		51		Senior Vice President—Operations
Kimberly O. Warnica		47		Senior Vice President—General Counsel
Gary E. Wilson		59		Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
Mr. Tillman was appointed by the board of directors as chairman of the board effective February 1, 2019. In August 2013, he was appointed as president and chief executive officer. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Tillman served as vice president of engineering for ExxonMobil Development Company (a project design and execution company), where he was responsible for all global engineering staff engaged in major project concept selection, front-end design and engineering.  Between 2007 and 2010, Mr. Tillman served as North Sea production manager and lead country manager for subsidiaries of ExxonMobil in Stavanger, Norway.  Mr. Tillman began his career in the oil and gas industry at Exxon Corporation in 1989 as a research engineer and has extensive operations management and leadership experience.
Mr. Whitehead was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer in March 2017. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Whitehead served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of both EP Energy Corp. and EP Energy LLC (oil and natural gas producer) since May 2012. Between 2009 and 2012, Mr. Whitehead served as senior vice president of strategy and enterprise business development and a member of El Paso Corporation’s executive committee. He joined El Paso Exploration & Production Company as senior vice president and chief financial officer in 2006. Before joining El Paso, Mr. Whitehead was vice president, controller and chief accounting officer of Burlington Resources Inc. (oil and natural gas producer), and formerly senior vice president and CFO of Burlington Resources Canada.
Mr. Wagner was appointed executive vice president of corporate development and strategy in November 2017 after having served as senior vice president of corporate development and strategy since March 2017, vice president of corporate development and interim chief financial officer since August 2016 and vice president of corporate development since April 2014. Prior to this appointment, he served as senior vice president, western business unit, for QR Energy LP (an oil and natural gas producer) and the affiliated Quantum Resources Management, which he joined in early 2012 as vice president, exploitation. Prior to that, Mr. Wagner was managing director in Houston for Scotia Waterous, the oil and gas arm of Scotiabank (an international banking services provider), from 2010 to 2012. Before joining Scotia, Mr. Wagner was vice president, Gulf of Mexico, for Devon Energy Corp. (an oil and natural gas producer), having joined Devon in 2003 as manager, international exploitation.
Mr. Henderson was appointed senior vice president, operations in May 2020, after having served as vice president of Regional Plays North since October 2017. Prior to that he held successive regional vice president roles since 2013 and managed operations in Oklahoma, North Dakota and Wyoming. Prior to his work in the resource plays, Mr. Henderson was development manager for international production operations in Equatorial Guinea and has been involved in a number of Marathon Oil’s major projects in Equatorial Guinea, Norway and the Gulf of Mexico over the course of his career. Before joining Marathon Oil in 2004, he was employed by ExxonMobil, where he served in a number of operations and project management roles of increasing responsibility.
Ms. Warnica was appointed senior vice president, general counsel in January 2021. Prior to joining Marathon Oil she was executive vice president, general counsel, chief compliance officer and corporate secretary at Alta Mesa Resources, Inc. (an exploration and production and midstream company), since 2018. Prior to Alta Mesa, Ms. Warnica served in several positions in the Marathon Oil legal department from 2016 to 2018, including assistant general counsel and assistant secretary. Prior to Marathon Oil, Ms. Warnica served as assistant general counsel and assistant secretary at Freeport-McMoRan Oil & Gas (formerly Plains Exploration and Production Company, an oil and gas production company). She started her career at Andrews Kurth LLP.
Mr. Wilson was appointed vice president, controller and chief accounting officer in October 2014. Prior to joining Marathon Oil, he served in various finance and accounting positions of increasing responsibility at Noble Energy, Inc. (a global exploration and production company) since 2001, including as director of corporate accounting from February 2014 through September 2014, director of global operations services finance from October 2012 through February 2014, director of controls and reporting from April 2011 through September 2012, and international finance manager from September 2009 through March 2011.
18

Available Information
Our website is www.marathonoil.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports and filings with the SEC are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are filed or furnished with the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other securities filings. Our filings are also available in hard copy, free of charge, by contacting us at 5555 San Felipe Street, Houston, Texas, 77056-2723, Attention: Investor Relations Office, telephone: (713) 629-6600. The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
Additionally, we make available free of charge on our website:
•our Code of Business Conduct and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers;
•our Corporate Governance Principles; and
•the charters of our Audit and Finance Committee, Compensation Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Health, Environmental, Safety and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
