Overview
Motorola Solutions is a global leader in mission critical communications and analytics. Our technologies in Land Mobile Radio Mission Critical Communications ("LMR" or "LMR Mission Critical Communications"), Command Center Software and Video Security and Analytics, bolstered by managed and support services, make communities safer and help businesses stay productive and secure. We serve more than 100,000 public safety and commercial customers in over 100 countries, providing “purpose-built” solutions designed for their unique needs, and we have a rich heritage of innovation focusing on advancing global safety for more than 90 years.
3

We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware as the successor to an Illinois corporation, Motorola, Inc., organized in 1928. We changed our name from Motorola, Inc. to Motorola Solutions, Inc. on January 4, 2011. Our principal executive offices are located at 500 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Illinois 60661.
Business Organization
We manage our business organizationally through two segments: “Products and Systems Integration” and “Software and Services.” Within these segments, the Company has principal product lines that also follow our three major technologies: LMR Mission Critical Communications, Command Center Software, and Video Security and Analytics.
•LMR Mission Critical Communications: Infrastructure, devices (two-way radio and broadband) and software that enable communications, inclusive of installation and integration, backed by services, to assure availability, security and resiliency.
•Command Center Software: Software suite that enables collaboration and seamless information sharing through the public safety workflow from 911 call to case closure.
•Video Security and Analytics: Cameras (fixed, body-worn, in-vehicle), access control, infrastructure, video management, software and artificial intelligence-enabled analytics that enable visibility “on scene” and bring attention to what’s important.
The Company has invested across these three technologies, evolving the Company’s LMR focus to purposefully integrate software, video security and analytics solutions for public safety and enterprise customers globally.
Our strategy is to generate value through the integration of each technology into our ecosystem, uniting voice, software, video and analytics to interoperate. While each technology individually strives to make users safer and more productive, we believe we can enable better outcomes between individuals, businesses and agencies united as one connected system. With our interplay of technologies, our goal is to help remove silos between systems, unify data, streamline workflows, simplify management and support evolving technologies. Examples of such interplay include sharing video feeds from a school to a police command center and officers’ devices in the field to improve situational awareness, uploading field reports or crime scene photos directly into an agency’s evidence system to save administration time, and connecting teams across networks to ensure messages are easily shared and teams can work as one. Our goal is to integrate technologies according to customers’ desired operational outcomes so they can work faster, smarter and more safely. Across all three technologies, we offer cloud-based solutions, cybersecurity services and managed and support services.
The principal products within each segment, by technology, are described below:
Products and Systems Integration Segment
In 2020, the segment’s net sales were $4.6 billion, representing 63% of our consolidated net sales.    
LMR Mission Critical Communications
Our LMR Mission Critical Communications technology includes infrastructure and devices for LMR, public safety Long Term Evolution (“LTE”) and enterprise-grade private LTE. We are a global leader in the two-way radio category, including Project 25 (“P25”), Terrestrial Trunked Radio (“TETRA”) and Digital Mobile Radio (“DMR”), as well as other professional and commercial radio (“PCR”) solutions. We also deliver LTE solutions for public safety, government and commercial users, including infrastructure and devices operating in 700 MHz, 900 MHz and Citizens’ Broadband Radio Service (“CBRS”) frequencies. Primary sources of revenue for this technology come from selling devices and building telecommunications networks, including infrastructure, installation and integration with our customers’ technology environments.
Our technology enables voice and multimedia collaborations across different two-way radio, WiFi or public LTE and private broadband networks. We believe that first responders continue to trust LMR communications because they are purpose-built and designed for reliability, availability, security and resiliency to withstand the most challenging conditions. By adding broadband data capabilities to our two-way radios, we strive to provide our customers greater functionality and access to the information and data they need in their workflows. Examples of such functionality include application services such as GPS location to better protect lone workers and over-the-air programming and updates to optimize device uptime.
The LMR technology within the Products and Systems Integration segment represented 86% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020.
Video Security and Analytics
Our Video Security and Analytics technology includes network video management infrastructure, fixed security and mobile video cameras (body-worn and in-vehicle) and access control solutions. We deploy video security solutions to thousands of government and commercial customers around the world including school campuses, transportation systems, healthcare centers, public venues, utilities, prisons, factories, casinos, airports, financial institutions, government facilities, state and local law enforcement agencies and retailers. Organizations such as these utilize video security to enable continuous monitoring that can improve situational awareness, particularly across large areas, and to visually verify critical events or incidents in real-time or investigate after they happen.
Our view is that government and public safety customers in particular are increasingly turning to video security technologies, including fixed street cameras, in-vehicle cameras and body-worn cameras, to increase visibility, accountability and safety for citizens, communities and first responders alike.
4

We have built our video security and analytics technology through strategic acquisitions. We acquired Avigilon Corporation (“Avigilon”) in 2018. Avigilon access control solutions, in addition to cameras, sensors and infrastructure embedded with advanced video analytics, are designed to be simple and easy to use. We expanded our fixed video security technology through our acquisitions of IndigoVision Group plc and Pelco, Inc. in 2020. We grew our mobile video security technology in 2019 through our acquisitions of WatchGuard Inc., which provides body-worn cameras and in-vehicle video systems for North America law enforcement agencies, and Edesix Ltd (acquired as part of the VaaS International Holdings acquisition), a provider of body-worn cameras in Europe for both law enforcement and commercial markets.
The Video Security and Analytics technology within the Products and Systems Integration segment represented 14% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020.
Software and Services Segment
In 2020, the segment’s net sales were $2.8 billion, representing 37% of our consolidated net sales.
LMR Mission Critical Communications
LMR Mission Critical Communications services include support and managed services, which offer a broad continuum of support for our customers. Support services include repair and replacement, technical support and preventative maintenance, and more advanced offerings such as system monitoring, software updates and cybersecurity services. Managed services range from partial to full operational support of customer-owned or Motorola Solutions-owned networks. Our customers’ systems often have multi-year or multi-decade lifespans that help drive demand for software upgrades, device and infrastructure refresh opportunities, as well as additional services to monitor, manage, maintain and secure these complex networks and solutions. We strive to deliver services to our customers that help improve performance across their systems, devices and applications for greater safety and productivity.
Given the mission-critical nature of our customers’ LMR networks, availability, security and resiliency are imperative, along with keeping pace with technological advancements. We have a comprehensive approach to system upgrades that addresses hardware, software and implementation services. As new system releases become available, we work with our customers to upgrade software, hardware, or both, with respect to site controllers, comparators, routers, LAN switches, servers, dispatch consoles, logging equipment, network management terminals, network security devices such as firewalls and intrusion detection sensors, and more, on-site or remotely.
The LMR technology within the Software and Services segment represented 72% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020.
Command Center Software
Our Command Center Software suite, CommandCentral, supports the complex process of the public safety workflow from "911 call to case closure," which involves an array of roles from the moment a citizen dials 911, such as dispatchers who route calls to police, fire and emergency medical services, first responders in the field, intelligence analysts who manage real-time operations, records specialists who preserve the integrity of information and evidence, crime analysts who identify patterns and accelerate investigations, and corrections officers who oversee jail and inmate management.
CommandCentral software supports these roles through the three phases of incident response: incident awareness, incident management and post-incident resolution. Incident awareness software includes community engagement applications for tip submissions, crime mapping and evidence submission, and 911 call-handling software (including multimedia) and next-generation core services for 911 call routing. Incident management software includes computer aided dispatch (“CAD”) for dispatch and coordinating first response, situational awareness software that shows a single, real-time view of video feeds and other alerts on a map, and field response and reporting to help frontline personnel collaborate, manage incident activity and file reports from the field. Post-incident resolution software includes centralized records and evidence management for record-keeping and judicial sharing, analytics including license plate recognition, and jail and inmate management to streamline the process and enable secure inter-agency information sharing.
As the public safety market continues to evolve toward software offerings that more efficiently run their operations, reduce response times and increase officer availability, we have focused on providing cloud-based software-as-a service (“SaaS”) with ancillary implementation and managed services in addition to on-premises solutions. Our PremierOne Cloud suite, hosted in Microsoft Azure Government, includes CAD, mobile and records in a single, integrated cloud-based offering. We believe that cloud deployment delivers agencies key benefits, including faster deployment, increased security, rapid scaling in the event of an emergency and a secure investment that keeps pace as technology advances.
Another area of public safety evolution is increasing adoption of Next Generation 911 Core Services (“NGCS”), a group of products and services needed to create infrastructure connectivity in order to process a 911 call using Next Generation (“NG”) technology. The NG infrastructure is an Emergency Service IP Network ("ESInet"), which can carry voice, data and multimedia. ESInet enables 911 call takers at public safety answering points to respond to text, video and data. Our NGCS can be offered as a managed service and includes call routing, ESInet, location services, Geographic Information Services, cybersecurity and our continuous network and security operations center dedicated to public safety. We believe that our solution is differentiated through its integration with our CommandCentral software suite to simplify the agency’s workflow and ensure better incident management and real-time intelligence.
Additional Command Center Software includes interoperability software that ensures communication is not limited by coverage area, network technology or device type. Our solutions, including Kodiak, WAVE PTX and CriticalConnect, enable
5

interoperability among devices across multiple networks. For example, a two-way radio network can connect with an LTE network making it possible for individuals to communicate securely and more easily across technologies.
The Command Center Software technology within the Software and Services segment represented 18% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020.
Video Security and Analytics
Video Security and Analytics software includes video network management software, digital evidence management software and advanced vehicle location data analysis software, including license plate recognition, each designed to complement respective video hardware systems.
Our video network management software is embedded with artificial intelligence (“AI”)-enabled analytics to deliver operational insights to our customers by bringing attention to important events within their video footage. Given the volume of video footage, we believe this is critical to monitor and manage to deliver meaningful, action-oriented insights. For example, AI-enabled analytics can detect unusual behavior such as a person at a facility out-of-hours, locate a missing child with our Appearance Search feature at a theme park, flag a blacklisted vehicle through license plate recognition at a school, or send an alert through access control if doors are propped open at a hospital.
Video Security and Analytics services include our video-as-service offering for law enforcement, simplifying procurement by bundling hardware and software into a single subscription. Body-worn cameras and in-car video systems can be paired with either on-premises or cloud-based digital evidence management software and complementary command center software products. Additionally, Avigilon fixed video systems connected to Avigilon Cloud Services (“ACS”) provide our customers with the ability to securely access video across their sites from a remote/central monitoring location and more easily integrate with their other systems.
The Video Security and Analytics technology within the Software and Services segment represented 10% of the net sales of the total segment in 2020.
Our Customers and Contracts
We serve government agencies, state and local public safety agencies, as well as commercial and industrial customers. Our customer base is fragmented and widespread when considering the many levels of governmental and first-responder decision-makers that procure and use our products and services. Serving this global customer base spanning federal, state, county, province, territory, municipal, and departmental independent bodies, along with our commercial and industrial customers, requires a significant go-to-market investment.
Our sales model includes both direct sales by our in-house sales force, which tend to focus on our largest accounts, and sales through our channel partner program. Our trained channel partners include independent dealers, distributors, and software vendors around the world. The dealers and distributors each have their own sales organizations that complement and extend the reach of our sales force. The independent software vendors offer customized applications that meet specific needs of the customers we serve.
Our largest customers are the U.S. government (through multiple contracts with its various branches and agencies, including the armed services) and the Home Office of the United Kingdom, representing approximately 9% and 8% of our consolidated net sales in 2020, respectively. The loss of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings over several quarters as many of our contracts with these governments are long-term in nature. All contracts with the U.S. government, and certain other government agencies within the U.S., are subject to cancellation at the customer’s convenience. For a discussion of risks related to government contracting requirements, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.
Payment terms with our customers vary worldwide. Generally, contractual payment terms range from 30 to 45 days from the invoice date within North America and typically do not exceed 90 days from the invoice date in regions outside of North America. A portion of our contracts include implementation milestones, such as delivery, installation, and system acceptance, which generally take 30 to 180 days to complete. Invoicing the customer is dependent on completion of the milestones. We generally do not grant extended payment terms. As required for competitive reasons, we may provide long-term financing in connection with equipment purchases. Financing may cover all or a portion of the purchase price. Refer to “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K for a discussion of risks related to requests by customers to provide vendor financing.
Generally, our contracts do not include a right of return, other than for standard warranty provisions. Due to customer purchasing patterns and the cyclical nature of the markets we serve, our sales tend to be somewhat higher in the second half of the year, with the fourth quarter being the highest.
Competition
We operate in highly competitive markets that are sensitive to technological advances. Competitive factors in these markets include product quality and reliability, technological capabilities, cost-effectiveness, and industry experience. In operating in these competitive markets, we have broadened how we work with our customers, expanding from our global LMR installed base to integrate Command Center Software and Video Security and Analytics. For example, our Command Center Software suite can integrate our customers’ LMR systems to provide unified voice and data information throughout the critical 911 workflow. Adding Video Security and Analytics enables multimedia collaboration and offers visibility for police officers within the
6

command center and in the field. The interplay of technologies, guided by our deep knowledge of the public safety workflow, delivers customers one connected system to unify their voice, data and video communication streams.
The specific solutions we integrate vary according to customers’ requirements. We support our customers from various technological starting points, for example, we may integrate a customer’s video system into a Command Center Software suite to simplify access to technologies that such customer uses to support its operations.
We experience widespread competition from a growing number of existing and new competitors, including large system integrators and manufacturers of private and public wireless network equipment and devices. As demand for fully integrated voice, data, broadband systems and video solutions continues to grow, we may face additional competition from public telecommunications carriers and telecommunications equipment providers to small video solutions startups.
As we continue to evolve our services strategy, we may subcontract work to other companies to fulfill customer needs in geographical areas that we do not have coverage or for additional services that we do not provide. For a description of risks related to our use of the services of subcontractors, refer to “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.
Our major competitors within our LMR, Command Center Software, and Video Security and Analytics technologies include the following companies:
					
Technology	Competitor
LMR	L3Harris Technologies, Inc., Hytera, Airbus SE, Kenwood Corporation
Command Center Software	Central Square Technologies, Axon Enterprise, Inc., Tyler Technologies, Inc., West Corporation, Intergraph Corporation, Zetron, ComTech
Video Security and Analytics	Axis Communications, Hikvision, Dahua Technology Company, Hanwha Group, Genetec Inc., Axon Enterprise, Inc.
COVID-19
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, there have been a broad number of governmental and commercial actions taken to limit the spread of the virus, including social distancing measures, stay-at-home orders, travel restrictions, business shutdowns and slowdowns. These actions have resulted in a significant decline in global economic activity. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively affected our sales and operating results for fiscal 2020, and may continue to have an impact on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity in 2021. See “Part II. Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K for a discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial results, and “Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Other Information
Backlog
Our backlog includes orders that have been received and are believed to be firm. As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, our backlog was as follows:
											
 	December 31
(In millions)	2020		2019
Products and Systems Integration	$	3,120 			$	3,158 	
Software and Services	8,314 			8,101 	
	$	11,434 			$	11,259 	
Approximately 47% of the Products and Systems Integration segment backlog and 24% of the Software and Services segment backlog is expected to be recognized as revenue during 2021. The firmness of such orders is subject to future events that may cause the amount recognized to change.
7

Recent Acquisitions
																	
Technology	Segment	Acquisition	Description	Purchase Price	Date of Acquisition
Command Center Software	Software and Services	Callyo	Provider of cloud-based mobile applications for law enforcement in North America, including critical mobile technological capabilities that enable information to flow seamlessly from the field to the command center. 	$63 million, inclusive of share-based compensation of $3 million	August 28, 2020
Video Security and Analytics	
Products and Systems Integration
Software and Services
	Pelco, Inc.	Global provider of video security solutions, adding a broad range of products for a variety of commercial and industrial environments and use cases. 	$110 million	July 31, 2020
Video Security and Analytics	
Products and Systems Integration
Software and Services
	 IndigoVision Group plc	Provider of video security solutions to enhance geographical reach across a wider customer base.	$37 million	June 16, 2020
LMR	Software and Services	Unnamed cybersecurity services business	Provider of vulnerability assessments, cybersecurity consulting, and managed services, including security monitoring of network operations.	$32 million 	April 30, 2020
LMR	Software and Services	Unnamed cybersecurity services business	Provider of vulnerability assessments, cybersecurity consulting, managed services, and remediation and response capabilities. 	$40 million, inclusive of share-based compensation of $6 million	March 3, 2020
Video Security and Analytics	Software and Services	Unnamed data solutions business for vehicle location information	Provider of additional data to our existing license plate recognition database.	$85 million	October 16, 2019
Video Security and Analytics	
Products and Systems Integration
Software and Services
	WatchGuard, Inc.	Provider of in-car and body-worn video solutions.	$271 million, inclusive of share-based compensation of $16 million 	July 11, 2019
LMR	
Products and Systems Integration
Software and Services
	Avtec, Inc.	Provider of dispatch communications for U.S. public safety and commercial customers to communicate, coordinate resources, and secure their facilities. 	$136 million	March 11, 2019
Video Security and Analytics	
Products and Systems Integration
Software and Services
	VaaS International Holdings	Global provider of data and image analytics for vehicle location.	$445 million, inclusive of share-based compensation of $38 million	January 7, 2019
Video Security and Analytics	
Products and Systems Integration
Software and Services
	Avigilon Corporation	Provider of advanced security and video solutions including video analytics, network video management hardware and software, video cameras, and access control solutions.	$974 million	March 28, 2018
Command Center Software	Software and Services	Plant Holdings, Inc.	Provider of next generation 911 solutions.	$237 million	March 7, 2018

8

Research and Development
We prioritize investments in R&D to expand and improve our products through both new product introductions and continuous enhancements to our core products. Our R&D programs are focused on the development of: (i) LMR Mission Critical Communications, (ii) Command Center Software and (iii) Video Security and Analytics.
R&D expenditures were $686 million in 2020, $687 million in 2019, and $637 million in 2018. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 6,000 employees engaged in R&D activities. In addition, we engage in R&D activities with joint development and manufacturing partners and outsource certain activities to engineering firms to further supplement our internal spend.
Intellectual Property Matters
Patent protection is an important aspect of our operations. We have a portfolio of U.S. and foreign utility and design patents relating to our products, systems, and technologies, including developments in radio frequency technology and circuits, wireless network technologies, over-the-air protocols, mission critical communications, software and services, video security and analytics and next-generation public safety. We also file new patent applications with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and foreign patent offices.
We license some of our patents to third-parties, but licensing is not a significant source of revenue for our business. We are also licensed to use certain patents owned by others. Royalty and licensing fees vary from year-to-year and are subject to the terms of the agreements and sales volumes of the products subject to the license. Motorola Solutions has a royalty-free license under all of the patents and patent applications assigned to Motorola Mobility at the time of the separation of the two businesses in 2011.
We actively participate in the development of standards for interoperable, mission critical digital two-way radio systems. Our patents are used in standards in which our products and services are based. We offer standards-based licenses to those patents on fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms.
We believe that our patent portfolio will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage in the development of future technologies. While we are not dependent upon a single patent or even a few patents, we do have patents that protect features and functionality of our products and services. While these patents are important, our success also depends upon our extensive know-how, innovative culture, technological leadership, and distribution channels. We do not rely solely on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position; however, we will enforce our intellectual property rights when it is necessary to protect our innovation, or in some cases where attempts to negotiate mutually-agreeable licenses are not successful.
We seek to obtain patents, copyright registrations, and trademark registrations to protect our proprietary positions whenever possible and wherever practical. As of December 31, 2020, we owned approximately 6,100 granted patents in the U.S. and foreign countries. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 1,300 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. Foreign patents and patent applications are mostly counterparts of our U.S. patents. During 2020, we were granted approximately 500 patents in the U.S. and in foreign countries.
We no longer own certain logos and other trademarks, trade names and service marks, including MOTOROLA, MOTO, MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS and the Stylized M logo and all derivatives thereof (“Motorola Marks”) and, since 2010, we have licensed the Motorola Marks from Motorola Mobility Holdings, Inc. which is currently owned by Lenovo Group Limited. For a description of the risks we face related to intellectual property, refer to “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.
Inventory and Raw Materials
Our practice is to carry reasonable amounts of inventory to meet customers' delivery requirements. We provide custom products that require the stocking of inventories and a large variety of piece parts and replacement parts in order to meet delivery and warranty requirements. To the extent supplier product life cycles are shorter than ours, stocking of lifetime buy inventories is required to meet long-term warranty and contractual requirements. In addition, replacement parts are stocked for delivery on customer demand within a short delivery cycle.
Availability of required materials and components is generally dependable; however, fluctuations in supply and market demand could cause selective shortages and affect our results of operations. We currently procure certain materials and components from single-source vendors. In addition, we import materials and components that are subject to import duties, including tariffs in connection with products procured in China. The duties and tariffs we are subject to do not have a significant impact on our financial results. A material disruption from a single-source vendor may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. If certain single-source suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies, or an increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our financial results.
Natural gas, electricity and, to a lesser extent, oil are the primary sources of energy for our manufacturing operations. Each of these resources is currently in adequate supply for our operations. The cost to operate our facilities and freight costs are dependent on world oil prices and external third-party logistics rates for inbound and outbound air lanes. Labor is generally available in reasonable proximity to our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our largest outsourced manufacturing suppliers. Difficulties in obtaining any of the aforementioned resources, or significant cost increases, could affect our financial results. For a description of risks related to our supply chain, refer to “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this Form 10-K.
9

Government Regulations
Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air, and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, and the cleanup of contaminated sites, as well as relating to the protection of the environment. Certain products of ours are subject to various federal, state, local, and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. Compliance with these U.S. federal, state and local, and international laws did not have a material effect on our capital expenditures or competitive position in 2018 through 2020; however, we recorded a $57 million charge in 2018 once to address additional remediation requirements for a designated Superfund site under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as the “Superfund Act”) incurred by a legacy business.
Radio spectrum is required to provide wireless voice, data, and video communications service. The allocation of spectrum is regulated in the U.S. and other countries and limited spectrum is allocated to wireless services and specifically to public safety users. We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already allocated by regulatory bodies. These include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios, and portable or hand-held devices. Consequently, our results could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted by regulatory agencies. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities. Conversely, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands (e.g., the sharing of previously dedicated or other spectrum) may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some of our products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.
The U.S. federal government and many state and local governments have adopted or are considering laws or regulations governing the use of artificial intelligence, biometrics, facial recognition and license plate recognition technology, primarily based on concerns about privacy or bias. (References to privacy-related legislation or laws in this document encompass all of these technologies.) Similar laws and regulations are being considered in some jurisdictions outside the U.S., including the European Union. Based on growing demands for broadband, regulators continue to consider repurposing narrowband spectrum to broadband. There are calls for more stringent health and safety requirements for occupational equipment for public safety and commercial users. Attention in the U.S. on supply chain vulnerabilities related to country of origin and national security continues. Our entrance into new service offerings could present new or additional regulatory burdens and compliance issues. For a description of the risks we face related to regulatory matters, refer to “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.
Human Capital Management
We have a "people first" philosophy. Our high-performing employees are our driving force, drawn from all segments of our global society to make a difference for our customers.
As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 18,000 people globally with 52% in the North America region and 48% in the International region. Of our total global employees, 42% were employed in engineering. We believe a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace is one where our employees feel that their unique opinions, cultures and abilities contribute to their personal success, as well as our company’s success.
We believe our management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute our strategy and advance our product and technology leadership. Our Chief Executive Officer and senior management leaders have extensive industry experience. They are supported by an experienced and talented management team that is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader for government, public safety and enterprise mission critical communications and analytics. For discussion of the risks relating to the attraction and retention of senior management and key technical employees, see “Part 1. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in this Form 10-K.
We believe the next big idea can come from anyone, anywhere, at any time. We invest in our employees’ development and training at all levels, challenging them to develop and grow skills to imagine new opportunities that will keep making a difference to public and enterprise safety. Employees have access to a wide variety of technical, functional and professional skills learning resources, including virtual, self-directed courses and on-the-job learning opportunities.
We strive for business growth by creating a supportive, fair and equitable environment where employees feel they belong and are engaged, connected to our business and invested in the collective success of our customers and communities. Our human resources team works with leaders within each business function to perform annual talent reviews to assess the performance of every team member and identify the best development opportunities. This extensive process fosters growth across our company through focus on our high performing and high potential talent and the rigor of succession plan development for our most critical roles. As part of our compensation philosophy, we strive to offer and maintain market competitive wages, incentives, and benefits for our employees in order to attract and retain superior talent.
We are focused on recruiting diverse candidates into our company by incorporating best practices into our hiring and creating partnerships with diversity organizations. In 2020, we appointed our first chief diversity officer, invested in development programs for high-potential female leaders, added an unconscious bias curriculum to our global workforce, and surveyed more than 4,000 employees to help leaders better understand the employee experience, particularly as it relates to diversity, equity and inclusion. In 2019, more than 170 leaders from all parts of the Company participated in a variety of blended learning programs that included in-person training, self-paced learning and practice activities, all geared toward building their leadership skills. In 2018, over 100 human resources professionals and hiring managers received several hours of specialized training on how to remove unconscious bias from the hiring process.
10

Our company-sponsored employee business councils support and promote mutual objectives of both the employees and the Company, including driving inclusion and diversity, enhancing company culture and impacting business results. As of December 31, 2020, we had six business councils: Women’s Business Council, Multicultural Business Council, LGBTA Business Council, People with Disabilities and Allies Council, Veterans Business Council and Global Young Professionals Group.
In 2020 we established a cross-collaborative advisory committee, the Motorola Solutions Technology Advisory Committee (“MTAC”), to ensure our technological advancements remain aligned with our purpose and ethics, and are informed by the broader implications to our customers, the communities we serve and society at large.
Additional information regarding how our purpose and ethics informs our approach to corporate responsibility can be found in our 2019 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website at www.motorolasolutions.com/en_us/about/company-overview/corporate-responsibility.html. The information contained on or accessible through our corporate website is not incorporated by reference into and is not a part of this Form 10-K.
Material Dispositions
None.
Available Information
We make available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, www.motorolasolutions.com/investors, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, other reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and all amendments to those reports simultaneously or as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our reports are also available free of charge on the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Also available free of charge on our website are the following corporate governance documents:
•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Restated Certificate of Incorporation with Amendments
•Conformed Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola Solutions, Inc. (amended Jan. 4, 2011)
•Certificate of Amendment to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)
•Certificate of Ownership and Merger of Motorola Name Change Corporation into Motorola, Inc. (effective Jan. 4, 2011)
•Motorola Solutions, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws
•Board Governance Guidelines
•Director Independence Guidelines
•Principles of Conduct for Members of the Motorola Solutions, Inc. Board of Directors
•Motorola Solutions Code of Business Conduct, which is applicable to all Motorola Solutions employees, including the principal executive officers, the principal financial officer and the controller (principal accounting officer)
•Audit Committee Charter
•Compensation and Leadership Committee Charter
•Governance and Nominating Committee Charter
All of our reports and corporate governance documents may also be obtained without charge by contacting Investor Relations, Motorola Solutions, Inc., Corporate Offices, 500 W. Monroe Street, Chicago, IL 60661, E-mail: investors@motorolasolutions.com. Our internet website and the information contained therein or incorporated therein are not intended to be incorporated into this Form 10-K.
