History and Development of the Company

Norwegian commenced operations from Miami in 1966, launching the modern cruise industry by offering weekly departures from Miami to the Caribbean. In February 2011, NCLH, a Bermuda limited company, was formed. In January 2013, NCLH completed its IPO and the ordinary shares of NCLC were exchanged for the ordinary shares of NCLH, and NCLH became the owner of 100% of the ordinary shares and parent company of NCLC (the “Corporate Reorganization”). At the same time, NCLH contributed $460.0 million to NCLC and the historical financial statements of NCLC became those of NCLH. The Corporate Reorganization was affected solely for the purpose of reorganizing our corporate structure. In November 2014, we completed the Acquisition of Prestige.

Additional Information

Our registered offices are located at Walkers Corporate (Bermuda) Limited, Park Place, 3rd Floor, 55 Par-la-Ville Road, Hamilton HM 11, Bermuda. Our principal executive offices are located at 7665 Corporate Center Drive, Miami, Florida 33126. Daniel S. Farkas, the Company’s Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, is our agent for service of process at our principal executive offices.

Our Company

Business Overview

We are a leading global cruise company which operates the Norwegian Cruise Line, Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises brands. As of December 31, 2020, we had 28 ships with approximately 59,150 Berths and had orders for nine additional ships to be delivered through 2027. Due to COVID-19, we have temporarily suspended global cruise voyages through May 31, 2021. We refer you to “—Impact of COVID-19” for further information.

Our brands offer itineraries to worldwide destinations including Europe, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, South America, Africa, Canada, Bermuda, Caribbean, Alaska and Hawaii. Norwegian’s U.S.-flagged ship, Pride of America, provides the industry’s only entirely inter-island itinerary in Hawaii.

All of our brands offer an assortment of features, amenities and activities, including a variety of accommodations, multiple dining venues, bars and lounges, spa, casino and retail shopping areas and numerous entertainment choices. All brands also offer a selection of shore excursions at each port of call as well as hotel packages for stays before or after a voyage.

We have nine ships on order across our portfolio of brands.  For the Norwegian brand, Project Leonardo will introduce six additional ships with expected delivery dates from 2022 through 2027. For Regent Seven Seas Cruises, we have one Explorer Class Ship on order for delivery in 2023. For Oceania Cruises, we have two Allura Class Ships on order for delivery in 2023 and 2025. These additions to our fleet will increase our total Berths to approximately 83,000, which includes additional Berths we plan to add to our Project Leonardo ships, subject to certain conditions. The impacts of COVID-19 on the shipyards where our ships are under construction (or will be constructed) have resulted in some delays in expected ship deliveries, and the impacts of COVID-19 could result in additional delays in ship deliveries in the future, which may be prolonged.

Impact of COVID-19

Beginning on March 13, 2020, NCLH suspended all cruise voyages in response to COVID-19. This suspension has been extended through May 31, 2021. The resumption of operations will be dependent, in part, on our ability to comply with various governmental regulations, the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, the lifting of various travel restrictions and travel bans issued by various countries and communities around the world, as well as port availability.

9

Table of Contents

We expect a gradual phased relaunch of our ships after the voyage suspension period, with our ships initially operating at reduced occupancy levels. Our selection of itineraries in the short-term will be predicated by port availability and the safety of the destinations we visit. We continue to work with our partners at ports as well as governmental agencies to address the impact that COVID-19 will have on future operations, including the ability to receive guests, potential capacity restrictions, and the need for physical distancing and other health guidelines that may be imposed on guests onboard the ship, in port facilities and while in the destinations we visit. Our goal is to provide a safe and healthy cruise vacation while at the same time keeping the guest experience as authentic as possible.

All three of our brands afford the ability to pre-sell tickets and onboard activities in advance with long lead times ahead of sailing; however, sales of cruises are subject to consumer discretionary spending levels and may be influenced by geopolitical events and economic conditions. As a result of COVID-19, there are severe negative impacts on consumer spending as well as our travel advisors’ operations and their ability to book cruises. While booking volumes since the emergence of the COVID-19 global pandemic have remained below historical levels, there continues to be demand for future cruise vacations, despite reduced marketing investments. Refer to “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Update Regarding COVID-19 Pandemic” for additional information.

Strategy for COVID-19

The Company has taken several actions in response to the impact on our business brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic.  

Swift Execution of Financial Action Plan

Since March 2020, we launched a series of capital markets transactions to bolster our financial position during the voyage suspension period, which in aggregate raised approximately $5.6 billion. We have also taken several additional measures to improve our liquidity through deferring certain ship milestone payments, deferring certain debt amortization payments and extending certain maturities under our debt agreements, including under our agreements with export credit agencies (“ECAs”) and related governments. We have also undertaken several proactive cost reduction and cash conservation measures to mitigate the financial and operational impacts of COVID-19, through the reduction of capital expenditures as well as reductions in operating expenses, including ship operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses. Refer to “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for more detail regarding our COVID-19 financial action plan.

Addressed Significant Operational Challenges

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, for the first time in the Company’s history, we implemented a voluntary suspension of global cruise voyages. All passengers were disembarked from the 28 ships in the Company’s fleet by March 28, 2020.

After our voluntary suspension of sailings, we successfully completed the safe repatriation of our shipboard team members to their home countries around the globe. We have repatriated shipboard team members to over 120 countries through a combination of chartered and commercial air flights as well as the use of certain of our ships. In anticipation of a resumption of sailings following the Conditional Order and the amount of time expected to recruit, train and transport crew, we had begun the process of re-staffing a limited number of our vessels. However, as a result of the resurgence of COVID-19 around the globe, the continued lack of port availability and permission to sail in the destinations we normally serve, along with other factors which make the timing of the resumption of cruise operations uncertain, a portion of those crew members will be repatriated in the near term.

Roadmap to Relaunch

We have developed a comprehensive and multi-faceted health and safety strategy to enhance our already rigorous protocols and address the unique public health challenges posed by COVID-19. In July 2020, we announced a collaboration with Royal Caribbean Group to form a group of experts called the “Healthy Sail Panel” to guide the

10

Table of Contents

industry in the development of new and enhanced cruise health and safety standards. The panel is co-chaired by Dr. Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, and Governor Mike Leavitt, former Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and consists of globally recognized experts from various disciplines, including public health, infectious disease, biosecurity, hospitality and maritime operations. On September 21, 2020, the expert panel published a report, which included 74 detailed best practices across five key areas of focus to protect the public health and safety of guests, crew and the communities where our cruise ships visit. The panel also submitted its recommendations to the CDC, in response to a CDC request for public comment to inform future public health guidance and preventative measures relating to travel on cruise ships. The panel’s recommendations are informing new detailed health and safety protocols for our return-to-service plan. The Company continues to work with its expert advisors, the Healthy Sail Panel, and global public health authorities and government agencies to refine its comprehensive and multi-layered health and safety strategy to enhance its already rigorous health and safety standards in response to COVID-19.

On October 30, 2020, the CDC issued a Conditional Order that introduced a phased approach for the resumption of passenger cruises. These phases include: a) the establishment of laboratory testing of crew onboard cruise ships in U.S. waters; b) simulated voyages designed to test a cruise ship operator’s ability to mitigate COVID-19 on cruise ships; c) a certification process; and d) a return to passenger voyages in a manner that mitigates the risk of COVID-19 introduction, transmission or spread among passenger and crew onboard ships and ashore to communities. The Conditional Order replaced the CDC’s No Sail Order that expired on October 31, 2020 and will remain in effect until the earlier of a) the expiration of the Secretary of Health and Human Services’ declaration that COVID-19 constitutes a public health emergency, b) the CDC Director’s rescission or modification of the Conditional Order based on specific public health or other considerations, or c) November 1, 2021. Additionally, pursuant to the Conditional Order, the CDC may issue additional requirements through technical instructions or orders as needed and the phases described above may be subject to change based on public health considerations, including the trajectory of the pandemic and the ability of cruise ship operators to successfully employ measures that mitigate the risk of COVID-19. Significant uncertainties remain regarding specific requirements of the Conditional Order including pending technical instructions from the CDC. We continue to work through the requirements of the Conditional Order and work with the CDC and other federal agencies, public health authorities and national and local governments in areas where we operate to take all necessary measures to protect our guests, crew and the communities visited once operations resume. We have begun the planning process to implement some of these recommendations, including purchasing related equipment and supplies.

We expect a gradual phased relaunch of our ships after the voyage suspension period, with our ships initially operating at reduced occupancy levels. The timing for returning our ships to service and the percentage of our fleet in service will depend on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the duration and extent of the COVID-19 pandemic, including further resurgences and new variants of COVID-19, the availability, distribution and efficacy of vaccines and therapeutics for COVID-19, our ability to comply with the Conditional Order, port availability, travel restrictions, bans  and advisories and our ability to re-staff our ships and implement new enhanced health and safety protocols.

11

Table of Contents

Our Fleet

The following table presents information about our ships and their primary areas of operation based on current and future itineraries, which are subject to change.

	
	
	
	
	

Ship (1)
	

    
	

Year
Built
	

    
	

Primary Areas of Operation
	

 

	

	

	

	

	

Norwegian
	

	

  
	

	

  
	

Project Leonardo 1 (2)
	

	

2022
	

	

The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Encore
	

	

2019
	

	

Alaska, Caribbean, Central America
	

Norwegian Bliss
	

	

2018
	

	

Alaska, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Mexico-Pacific
	

Norwegian Joy
	

	

2017
	

	

Alaska, Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Central America, Mexico-Pacific
	

Norwegian Escape
	

	

2015
	

	

Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Getaway
	

	

2014
	

	

The Bahamas, Bermuda, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Breakaway
	

	

2013
	

	

Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Epic
	

	

2010
	

	

Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Gem
	

	

2007
	

	

The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Europe, Mexico-Pacific
	

Norwegian Jade
	

	

2006
	

	

Africa, Asia, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Pearl
	

	

2006
	

	

The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Jewel
	

	

2005
	

	

Alaska, Australia & New Zealand, Central America, Hawaii, Mexico-Pacific, South Pacific
	

Pride of America
	

	

2005
	

	

Hawaii
	

Norwegian Dawn
	

	

2002
	

	

The Bahamas, Caribbean, Europe
	

Norwegian Star
	

	

2001
	

	

Antarctica, Europe, South America
	

Norwegian Sun
	

	

2001
	

	

Alaska, Asia, The Bahamas, Caribbean, Central America
	

Norwegian Sky
	

	

1999
	

	

The Bahamas, Caribbean
	

Norwegian Spirit
	

	

1998
	

	

Africa, Alaska, Asia, Australia & New Zealand, Europe, Hawaii
	

Oceania Cruises
	

	

	

	

  
	

Oceania Riviera
	

	

2012
	

	

Caribbean, Europe
	

Oceania Marina
	

	

2011
	

	

Central America, Europe, South America
	

Oceania Nautica
	

	

2000
	

	

Africa, Asia, Europe
	

Oceania Sirena
	

	

1999
	

	

Africa, Asia, Caribbean, Europe
	

Oceania Regatta
	

	

1998
	

	

Alaska, Asia, Australia & New Zealand, South Pacific
	

Oceania Insignia
	

	

1998
	

	

Africa, Alaska, Asia, Bermuda, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii, Mexico-Pacific, South America, South Pacific
	

Regent
	

    
	

  
	

    
	

  
	

 

Seven Seas Splendor
	

	

2020
	

	

Caribbean, Central America, Europe
	

Seven Seas Explorer
	

	

2016
	

	

Alaska, Asia, Australia & New Zealand, Caribbean, Europe
	

Seven Seas Voyager
	

	

2003
	

	

Africa, Asia, Australia & New Zealand, Europe, South America
	

Seven Seas Mariner
	

	

2001
	

	

Alaska, Asia, Australia & New Zealand, Caribbean, Europe, South America
	

Seven Seas Navigator
	

	

1999
	

	

Australia & New Zealand, Canada & New England, Caribbean, Central America, Europe, Hawaii, South America, South Pacific
	

(1)	The table above does not include the additional eight ships on order.
(2)	The first of the Project Leonardo ships, which is expected to be delivered in the summer of 2022.

Our Mission, Competitive Strengths & Business Strategies

Our core mission is to provide exceptional vacation experiences delivered by passionate team members committed to world-class hospitality and innovation. We believe that the following business strengths support our overall strategy to

12

Table of Contents

deliver on our mission. While the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our competitive strengths, our core mission remains intact.

Enhanced Product Offering and Guest Experience

Our portfolio of ships is comprised of a young and enhanced 28-vessel fleet.  We have invested in revitalizations to our ships, which provides an enhanced product offering that we believe delivers higher guest satisfaction and, in turn, higher pricing. 

Norwegian’s ships offer up to 28 dining options, a diverse range of accommodations and what we believe is the widest array of entertainment at sea. Oceania Cruises’ award-winning onboard dining, with multiple open seating dining venues, is a central highlight of its cruise experience. Regent’s all-inclusive offering includes air transportation, shore excursions, pre-cruise hotel stays (for concierge level and above), specialty restaurants, premium spirits and fine wines, gratuities, Wi-Fi and other amenities.  Historically, we have continually looked for ways to enhance our already strong product offering and onboard guest experience across our three brands and in the destinations we visit.  We have done so through ship refurbishments, enhancements to dining and entertainment offerings, expansion of immersive shore excursion offerings and more. In the current environment, we are focused on enhancing health and safety practices for our guests. 

The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent brands all offer a high level of onboard service. We collaborate amongst the brands to provide an enhanced guest experience. Norwegian offers guests the freedom and flexibility to design their ideal cruise vacation on their schedule with no set dining times, a variety of entertainment options and no formal dress codes. Oceania Cruises and Regent are known for their quality of service, including some of the highest crew-to-guest ratios in the industry and a staff trained to deliver personalized and attentive service. Upon our return to service, social distancing or other guidelines may impact the guest experience.

Rich Stateroom Mix

The Norwegian, Oceania Cruises and Regent fleets offer an attractive mix of staterooms, suites and villas. Norwegian’s suites range from two-bedroom family suites to penthouses and owner suites, as well as three-bedroom Garden Villas measuring up to 6,694 square feet. In addition, 11 of Norwegian’s ships offer The Haven, a key-card access enclave on the upper decks with luxurious suite accommodations, exclusive amenities, and 24/7 butler and concierge service. The Haven suites surround a private courtyard with pool, hot tubs, sundeck, fitness center and steam rooms. On board Norwegian Epic, the Breakaway Class Ships and the Breakaway Plus Class Ships, The Haven also includes a private lounge and fine dining restaurant. Norwegian’s accommodations also include the groundbreaking Studio staterooms designed for solo travelers centered around the Studio Lounge, a private lounge area solely for Studio guests, as well as ocean views, balconies and connecting accommodations to meet the needs of all types of cruisers.

 

The spacious and elegant accommodations on Oceania Cruises’ six award-winning ships, the 684-Berth Regatta, Insignia, Sirena and Nautica, and the 1,250-Berth Marina and Riviera, range from 143-square foot inside staterooms to opulent 2,030-square foot owner suites. The Regent fleet is comprised of five ships. Seven Seas Voyager, Seven Seas Mariner, Seven Seas Explorer and Seven Seas Splendor feature all-suite, all-balcony accommodations, and a majority of the accommodations on Seven Seas Navigator include balconies. The two newest ships in the Regent fleet, Seven Seas Splendor and Seven Seas Explorer, also feature the Regent Suite, a 4,443 square-foot luxurious suite accommodation that includes an in-suite spa retreat, a 1,300 square-foot wraparound veranda, and a glass-enclosed solarium sitting area.

Itinerary Optimization & Premium Itinerary Mix

We manage our ships’ deployments to promote a better breadth of itineraries, sell cruises further in advance and maximize profitability.  We offer a diverse selection of premium itineraries which we continually look to enhance. Our fleet has a worldwide deployment, offering voyages ranging from three days to a 180-day around-the-world cruise. Our vessels call on ports in Scandinavia, Russia, the Mediterranean, the Greek Isles, Alaska, Canada and New England, Asia, Tahiti and the South Pacific, Australia and New Zealand, Africa, India, South America, the Panama Canal and the Caribbean.  Our destination management team reviews deployments across the fleet, either repositioning ships to new 

13

Table of Contents

destinations or fine-tuning itineraries, with the goal of diversifying our deployment and creating product scarcity which, in turn, leads to higher pricing.

We are also focused on destination development and have created two private destinations to enhance the shore experience for our guests. We were the first cruise line to develop a private island, Great Stirrup Cay in the Bahamas. This private destination is the Company’s 270-acre private island featuring over 1,500 feet of accessible beachfront with white sand beaches; over 50 cabana and villa options; an array of shore excursions including a new over water zipline experience that extends nearly 3,000 feet in length; and on-island food and beverage offerings. In 2019, we launched Silver Cove, the latest enhancement designed to elevate the guest experience. This new exclusive oceanfront lagoon area includes private beachfront villas, a Mandara Spa with beachfront treatments as well as the exclusive Moët & Chandon Bar and upscale Silver Cove Restaurant and Bar. The 38 luxury air-conditioned villas range from studios to larger one-and-two-bedroom villas, all of which include private bathroom, daybed, club chairs, televisions with on-demand entertainment, outdoor patio and lounge seating, retractable glass walls providing unobstructed views and access to the private beachfront lagoon. In 2016, we introduced Harvest Caye, the Company’s private resort-style destination in Southern Belize.  The 75-acre destination features Belize’s only cruise ship pier, an expansive seven-acre white sand beach, 15,000 sq. ft. pool with swim up bar, multiple dining options and a nature center with wildlife experiences plus adventure tours.

Disciplined Fleet Expansion

For the Norwegian brand, Project Leonardo will introduce six additional ships, each ranging from approximately 140,000 to 156,300 Gross Tons with approximately 3,300 to 3,550 Berths, with expected delivery dates from 2022 through 2027. For the Regent brand, we have one Explorer Class Ship on order to be delivered in 2023, which will be approximately 55,000 Gross Tons and 750 Berths. For the Oceania Cruises brand, we have orders for two Allura Class Ships to be delivered in 2023 and 2025. Each of the Allura Class Ships will be approximately 67,000 Gross Tons and 1,200 Berths. The impacts of COVID-19 on the shipyards where our ships are under construction (or will be constructed) have resulted in some delays in expected ship deliveries, and the impacts of COVID-19 could result in additional delays in ship deliveries in the future, which may be prolonged.

We believe these new ships will allow us to continue expanding the reach of our brands, positioning us for accelerated growth and providing an optimized return on invested capital. We have obtained export credit financing which is expected to fund approximately 80% of the contract price of each ship expected to be delivered through 2027, subject to certain conditions.

Go-to-Market and Bundling Strategy

Our revenue management function performs extensive analyses in order to determine booking history and uses trends by sailing, stateroom category, travel partner, market segment, itinerary and distribution channel in order to optimize cruise ticket revenue. The Norwegian brand offers guests the choice of a more inclusive, value-add product offering on certain sailings and in certain stateroom selections by allowing guests to choose from multiple amenities.  Our market-to-fill strategy maintains pricing integrity by offering both the best price early in the booking cycle and value-added promotions when necessary to reduce the need to compromise on price. This marketing strategy assists in maximizing the revenue potential from each customer contact generated. We believe these strategies and other initiatives executed by our distribution channels will drive sustainable growth in the number of guests carried and in revenues achieved.

We also seek to increase demand through effective marketing campaigns across various channels such as branding campaigns on nationwide television, robust and varied digital campaigns or targeted mail campaigns aimed at supporting seasonal deployments. Our sales forces are also drivers of demand, particularly in terms of educating travel advisors on our products and services in order to better sell to potential vacationers.

Casino Player Strategy

We have non-exclusive arrangements with casino partners worldwide whereby loyal gaming guests are offered cruise reward certificates redeemable for cruises. Through property sponsored events and joint marketing programs, we have

14

Table of Contents

the opportunity to market cruises to these guests. These arrangements with casino partners have the dual benefit of filling open inventory and reaching guests expected to generate above average onboard revenue through the casino and other onboard spending.

Strengthening Our Global Footprint

Our international efforts are aimed at strengthening our global footprint by increasing brand awareness across the globe which allows us to diversify our guest sourcing.  We maintain numerous sales offices which support sales and marketing efforts in various markets outside of North America including the United Kingdom, Europe, Hong Kong, Australia, New Zealand, Brazil, India, Japan and Singapore.

Cost Containment Initiatives

We have a flat organizational structure which results in efficient operations with better and faster sharing of best practices. We continue to leverage the combined purchasing power of our three brands to further reduce costs throughout the organization.  This initiative is bolstered by our Supply Chain and Logistics Management function which supports our three brands as well as our corporate and international offices. 

Our new ships are designed to enhance energy efficiency and we have several initiatives in place to improve efficiency on our existing fleet including LED lighting upgrades, waste heat recovery, new hull coatings and itinerary optimization.

We also continue to enhance and expand our use of digital marketing and social media to drive further cost efficiencies.

Refer to “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for information on our current cash conservation measures.

Expand and Strengthen Our Product Distribution Channels

As part of our growth strategy, we continually look for ways to deepen and expand our sales channels.

We have strategic relationships with travel advisors and tour operators who commit to purchasing a certain level of inventory with long lead times.  The retail/travel advisor channel represents the majority of our ticket sales. Our travel partner base is comprised of an extensive network of independent travel advisors worldwide. We have made substantial investments with improvements in booking technologies, transparent pricing strategies, effective marketing tools, improved communication and cooperative marketing initiatives to enhance and facilitate the ability of travel advisors to market and sell our products. We have sales teams who work closely with our travel advisor partners on maximizing their marketing and sales effectiveness across all three of our brands. Our focused account management is designed to create solutions catered to the individual retailer through product and sales training. This education creates a deeper understanding of all our product offerings. In 2020, we continued to support our travel advisors by protecting earned commissions on original, fully paid bookings that were canceled due to suspended voyages as a result of COVID-19.

We have invested in our brands by enhancing websites, mobile applications and passenger services departments including our personal cruise consultants, who offer personalized service throughout the process of designing cruise vacations for our guests. We have also enhanced our capabilities to enable guests to customize their vacation experience with certain onboard product offerings. When sailing resumes, we will utilize our onboard cruise sales channel where guests can book their next cruise or purchase cruise certificates to apply to their next cruise while vacationing on our ships.

Our meetings, incentives and charters channel focuses on full ship charters as well as corporate meetings and incentive travel. These sales often have very long lead times and can fill a significant portion of the ship’s capacity, or even an entire sailing, in one transaction. Sixthman, a subsidiary company specializing in developing and delivering music-oriented charters, provides a market that enables travel advisors to sell high-quality music experiences at sea to guests.

15

Table of Contents

Marketing Strategy

We significantly reduced our marketing activities in 2020 due to the suspension of cruise voyages as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. When timing is determined for relaunch, we expect a disciplined increase in sales and marketing activities to further drive demand. Additionally, we will continue a deliberate approach on marketing and sales outreach to guests with future cruise credits, as a result of suspended sailings, to encourage redemption of cruise credits towards future sailings.

Building customer loyalty among our past guests is an important element of our marketing strategy. Past guests create a cost-effective means of attracting business, particularly to our new ships and itineraries as they are familiar with our brands, products and services and often return to cruise with us. We will continue to optimize our customer databases and targeting capabilities to further enhance our communications with our past guests who receive e-mail, direct mail and brochures with informative destination and product information and promotional amenities. Our marketing mix includes a balance of initiatives that both allow us to build our brand awareness to attract new-to-brand customers, while also focusing on more targeted marketing communications aimed at retaining our current guest base. Continued investments in our websites will be key not only to driving interest and bookings, but also to ensuring the optimal pre-cruise planning experience offering guests the ability to shop, reserve and purchase a breadth of onboard products and services. We have a strong communications stream that provides customized pre-cruise information to help guests maximize their cruise experience as well as a series of communications to welcome them home post cruise to engage them in booking their next cruise vacation.

Our marketing teams work to enhance brand awareness and consideration of our products and services among consumers and travel partners with the ultimate goal of driving sales. We utilize a multi-channel strategy that may include a combination of print, television, radio, website/e-commerce, direct mail, social media, mobile and e-mail campaigns, partnerships, customer loyalty initiatives, market research, consumer events and business-to-business events. We continue to enhance and expand our use of digital marketing and social media to drive cost efficiencies.

Travel advisors are crucial to our marketing and distribution efforts. We provide robust marketing support and enhanced tools for our travel advisor partners through a variety of programs. Our travel partners can benefit from our online travel partner education programs that include a wide variety of courses about our ships, itineraries and other best-selling practices. Advisors can also easily customize a multitude of consumer marketing materials for their use in promoting our products through our online platforms.

Guest feedback is also a critically important element in the development of our overall marketing and business strategies. We regularly initiate guest feedback studies among both travel partners and consumers to assess the impact of various programs and/or to solicit information that helps shape future direction.

Our Commitment to Sustainability

The continued success of our business is linked to our ability to operate and grow sustainably. We are committed to driving a positive impact on society and the environment through our Sail & Sustain global sustainability program. Our mission is to continually improve our sustainability culture through fresh innovation, progressive education and open collaboration. We are committed to maintaining our culture of diversity, equality and inclusion in the workplace. We also drive social impact through our philanthropy initiatives, partnerships and community engagement program in our local communities and at the destinations we visit. For additional information regarding our sustainability and stewardship initiatives, please visit our website at www.nclhltd.com.

Highly Experienced Management Team

Our senior management team is comprised of executives with extensive experience in the cruise, travel, leisure and hospitality-related industries. Mr. Frank Del Rio is our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Del Rio is an over 25-year cruise industry veteran who founded Oceania Cruises in 2002. Under his leadership, Oceania Cruises grew from a fledgling start-up to a dominant player in the upscale cruise market. He further led Oceania Cruises’ acquisition of Regent Seven Seas Cruises. After NCLH acquired Prestige, Mr. Del Rio led the combined company to many milestones

16

Table of Contents

including expanding its fleet with the newest and most innovative ships at sea, introducing the Company’s latest private destination, Harvest Caye in Belize, and significantly strengthening its global footprint.

Mr. Mark A. Kempa, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has been with the Company for over twenty years holding several positions of increasing responsibility in Norwegian’s finance organization, playing an instrumental role in several of the Company’s key milestones, including its successful IPO and the Acquisition of Prestige.

Mr. T. Robin Lindsay, our Executive Vice President, Vessel Operations, is responsible for Marine & Technical Operations, Hotel Operations, Entertainment, Product Development, Out Islands and Newbuild and Ship Refurbishment for all three of the Company's brands. Mr. Lindsay has been with the Company for nearly two decades dating back to 2003, when he joined Oceania Cruises as Senior Vice President, Hotel Operations.

See “Information about our Executive Officers” below for more information on our highly experienced management team.

Passenger Ticket Revenue

We offer our guests a wide variety of cruise fare options when booking a cruise. Our cruise ticket prices generally include cruise fare and a wide variety of onboard activities and amenities, meals, entertainment and port fees and taxes. In some instances, cruise ticket prices include round-trip airfare to and from the port of embarkation, complimentary beverages, unlimited shore excursions, free internet, valet laundry services, pre-cruise hotel packages, and on some of the exotic itineraries pre or post land packages. Prices vary depending on the particular cruise itinerary, stateroom category selected and the time of year that the voyage takes place.

Onboard and Other Revenue

All three brands generate onboard and other revenue for additional products and services which are not included in the cruise fare, including casino operations, certain food and beverage, shore excursions, gift shop purchases, spa services, photo services, Wi-Fi services and other similar items. Food and beverage, casino operations, photo services and shore excursions are generally managed directly by us while retail shops, spa services, art auctions and internet services may be managed through contracts with third-party concessionaires. These contracts generally entitle us to a percentage of the gross sales derived from these concessions. Norwegian’s ticket prices typically include cruise accommodations, meals in certain dining facilities and many onboard activities such as entertainment, pool-side activities and various sports programs. To maximize onboard revenue, all three brands use various cross-marketing and promotional tools which are supported by point-of-sale systems permitting “cashless” transactions for the sale of these products and services. Oceania Cruises’ ticket prices may include air transportation and certain other amenities. Regent’s ticket prices typically include air transportation, unlimited shore excursions, a pre-cruise hotel night stay (for concierge level and above), premium wines and top shelf liquors, specialty restaurants, Wi-Fi, valet laundry and gratuities.

Seasonality

Our operations are seasonal and results for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results for the entire fiscal year. Historically, demand for cruises has been strongest during the Northern Hemisphere’s summer months; however, our cruise voyages were completely suspended during the last nine months of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and such suspension has been extended through May 31, 2021.

Competition

Our primary competition includes operators such as Carnival and Royal Caribbean as well as other cruise lines such as MSC Cruises, Crystal Cruises, Viking Ocean Cruises and Virgin Voyages. In addition, we compete with land-based vacation alternatives, such as hotels and resorts, vacation ownership properties, casinos, and tourist destinations throughout the world.

17

Table of Contents

Ship Operations and Cruise Infrastructure

Ship Maintenance and Logistics

Sophisticated and efficient maintenance and operations systems support the technical superiority and modern look of our fleet. In addition to routine repairs and maintenance performed on an ongoing basis and in accordance with applicable requirements, each of our ships is generally taken out of service, approximately every 24 to 60 months, for a period of one or more weeks for scheduled maintenance work, repairs and improvements performed in Dry-dock. Dry-dock interval is a statutory requirement controlled under IMO requirements reflected in chapters of the International Convention of the Safety of Life at Seas (“SOLAS”) and to some extent the International Load Lines Convention. Under these regulations, it is required that a passenger ship Dry-dock once in five years (depending on age of vessel) or twice in five years (depending on flag state and age of vessel) and the maximum interval between each Dry-dock cannot exceed three years (depending on flag state and age of vessel). However, most of our international ships qualify under a special exemption provided by the Bahamas and/or Marshall Islands (flag state), as applicable, after meeting certain criteria set forth by the ship’s flag state to Dry-dock once every five years. To the extent practical, each ship’s crew, catering and hotel staff remain with the ship during the Dry-dock period and assist in performing repair and maintenance work. Accordingly, Dry-dock work is typically performed during non-peak demand periods to minimize the adverse effect on revenue that results from ships being out of service. Dry-docks are typically scheduled in spring or autumn and depend on shipyard availability. We take this opportunity to upgrade the vessels in all areas of both guest-facing services and innovative compliance technology.

Suppliers

Our largest capital expenditures are for ship construction and acquisition. Our largest operating expenditures are for payroll and related (including our contract with a third party who provides certain crew services), fuel, food and beverage, advertising and marketing and travel advisor services. Most of the supplies that we require are available from numerous sources at competitive prices. In addition, due to the large quantities that we purchase, we can obtain favorable prices for many of our supplies. Our purchases are denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. Payment terms granted by the suppliers are generally customary terms for the cruise industry.

Crew and Staff

Best-in-class guest service levels are paramount in the markets in which we operate, where travelers have discerning tastes and high expectations for quality service. We have dedicated resources to ensure that our service offerings on all of our ships meet the demands of our guests. Among other initiatives, we have implemented rigorous onboard training programs, with a focus on career development. We believe that our dedication to anticipating and meeting our guests’ every need differentiates our operations and fosters close relationships between our guests and crew, helping to build customer loyalty.

We place the utmost importance on the safety of our guests, crew and the communities we visit. We operate all our vessels to meet and exceed the requirements of SOLAS and International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”), the international safety standards which govern the cruise industry. Crew members are trained in the Company’s stringent safety protocols, participating in regular safety trainings, exercises and drills onboard every one of our ships to familiarize themselves and become proficient with the safety equipment onboard. Prior to our return to service, our crew members will be trained on our new health and safety protocols.

Our captains and chief engineers are experienced seafarers. Our bridge and technical officers regularly undergo rigorous operations training such as leadership, navigation, stability, statutory and environmental regulatory compliance. To support our deck and engine officers while at sea, we have bridge and engine resource management protocols in place, dictating specific standard operating procedures. Our bridge teams conduct a voyage planning process prior to sailing, where the upcoming itinerary is reviewed and discussed by the captain and bridge team prior to departure and in preparation for arrival. In addition, all of our ships employ state-of-the-art navigational equipment and technology to ensure that our bridge teams have accurate data regarding the planned itinerary.

18

Table of Contents

Prior to every cruise setting sail, we hold a mandatory safety drill for all guests during which important safety information is reviewed and demonstrated. We also show a safety video which runs continuously on the stateroom televisions. Our fleet is equipped with modern navigational control and fire prevention and control systems. We have developed a Safety Management System (“SMS”), which establishes policies, procedures, training, qualification, quality, compliance, audit and self-improvement standards. SMS also provides real-time reports and information to support the fleet and risk management decisions. Through these systems, our senior managers, as well as ship management, can focus on consistent, high quality operation of the fleet. Our SMS is approved and audited regularly by our classification society, Lloyds Register, and it also undergoes regular internal audits as well as periodic inspections by the U.S. Coast Guard, flag state and other port and state authorities.

Refer to “—Strategy for COVID-19” for an update on crew manning.

Insurance

We maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which are maintained in amounts related to the estimated market value of each ship. The coverage for each of the hull and machinery policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the European and U.S. insurance markets.

In addition to the insurance coverage on the hull and machinery of our ships, we seek to maintain comprehensive insurance coverage and believe that our current coverage is at appropriate levels to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. The insurance we carry includes:
	●	Protection and indemnity insurance (coverage for passenger, crew and third-party liabilities), including insurance against risk of pollution liabilities;
	●	War risk insurance, including terrorist risk insurance. The terms of our war risk policies include provisions where underwriters can give seven days’ notice to the insured that the policies will be cancelled in the event of a change of risk which is typical for policies in the marine industry. Upon any proposed cancellation the insurer shall, before expiry of the seven-day period, submit new terms; and
	●	Insurance for our shoreside property, cybersecurity, directors and officers, general liability risks and other insurance coverages.

Our insurance coverage, including those noted above, is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels.

Trademarks and Trade Names

Under the Norwegian brand, we own a number of registered trademarks relating to, among other things, the names “NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE” and “FEEL FREE,” the names of our ships (except where trademark applications for these have been filed and are pending), incentive programs and specialty services rendered on our ships and specialty accommodations such as “THE HAVEN BY NORWEGIAN.” In addition, we own registered trademarks relating to the “FREESTYLE” family of names, including, “FREESTYLE CRUISING,” “FREESTYLE DINING” and “FREESTYLE VACATION.” We believe that these trademarks are widely recognized throughout North America, Europe and other areas of the world and have considerable value.

Under the Oceania Cruises brand, we own a number of registered trademarks relating to, among other things, the names “OCEANIA CRUISES” and its logo, “REGATTA,” “INSIGNIA,” and “YOUR WORLD. YOUR WAY.”

Under the Regent brand, we own registered trademarks relating to, among other things, the names “SEVEN SEAS CRUISES” and “AN UNRIVALED EXPERIENCE” as well as the names of our ships (except where trademark applications have been filed and are pending).

We also claim common law rights in trademarks and trade names used in conjunction with our ships, incentive programs, customer loyalty program and specialty services rendered onboard our ships for each of our brands. Our

19

Table of Contents

material intellectual property, including trade names, as of May 14, 2020 has been pledged as collateral for the 2024 Senior Secured Notes issued by NCLC.

The Regent ships have been operating under the Regent brand since 2006. We entered into a trademark license agreement with Regent Hospitality Worldwide, Inc., which we amended in February 2011, granting us the right to use the “Regent” brand family of marks. The amended trademark license agreement allows Regent to use the Regent trade name, in conjunction with cruises, in perpetuity, subject to the terms and conditions in the agreement.

Regulatory Matters

Registration of Our Ships

Nineteen of the ships that we currently operate are registered in the Bahamas. One of our ships, Pride of America, is a U.S.-flagged ship. Eight of our ships are registered in the Marshall Islands. Our ships registered in the Bahamas and the Marshall Islands are inspected at least annually pursuant to Bahamian and Marshall Islands requirements and are subject to International laws and regulations and to various U.S. federal regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, the U.S. Public Health Service and the U.S. Coast Guard. Our U.S.-registered ship is subject to laws and regulations of the U.S. federal government, including, but not limited to, the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”), the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Department of Labor. The international, national, state and local laws, regulations, treaties and other legal requirements applicable to our operations change regularly, depending on the itineraries of our ships and the ports and countries visited.

Our ships are subject to inspection by the port regulatory authorities in the various countries that they visit. Such inspections include verification of compliance with the maritime safety, security, environmental, customs, immigration, health and labor regulations applicable to each port as well as with international requirements.

Economic Substance Requirements

NCLH and NCLC are exempted companies formed under the laws of Bermuda and some of their subsidiaries have been formed in Bermuda, Guernsey, Isle of Man, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands or the Bahamas. In June 2018, the European Union issued a scoping paper which set out economic substance requirements that targeted international financial centers, including the jurisdictions listed above, were required to adopt before 2019 with regard to relevant entities based in those jurisdictions. Pursuant to the legislation passed in each jurisdiction, entities subject to each jurisdiction’s laws that carry out relevant activities as specified in such laws, are required to demonstrate substantial economic substance in that jurisdiction.  In general terms, substantial economic substance means: (i) the entity is actually directed and managed in the jurisdiction; (ii)  core income-generating activities relating to the applicable relevant activity are performed in the jurisdiction; (iii) there are adequate employees in the jurisdiction; (iv) the entity maintains adequate physical presence in the jurisdiction; and (v) there is adequate operating expenditure in the jurisdiction. We have evaluated the activities of NCLH, NCLC and their subsidiaries and have concluded that in some cases, those activities are 'relevant activities' for the purposes of the applicable economic substance laws and that, consequently, certain entities within our organization will be required to demonstrate compliance with these economic substance requirements. We may be subject to increased costs and our management team may be required to devote significant time to satisfying economic substance requirements in certain of these jurisdictions.  If such entities cannot establish compliance with these requirements, we may be liable for penalties and fines in the applicable jurisdictions and/or required to re-domicile such entities to different jurisdictions.

Environmental Protection

Our ships are subject to various international, national, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including those that govern air emissions, waste discharge, wastewater management and disposal, and use and disposal of hazardous substances such as chemicals, solvents and paints. Under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into waterways, and we must adhere to various water and air quality-related requirements.

20

Table of Contents

With regard to air quality requirements, the IMO convention entitled Prevention of Pollution from Ships (“MARPOL”) set a global limit on fuel sulfur content of 0.5%. Various compliance methods, such as the use of alternative fuels, or exhaust gas cleaning systems that reduce an equivalent amount of sulfur emissions, may be utilized.

MARPOL also requires stricter limitations on sulfur emissions within designated Emission Control Areas (“ECAs”), which include the Baltic Sea, the North Sea/English Channel, North American waters and the U.S. Caribbean Sea. Ships operating in these waters are required to use fuel with a sulfur content of no more than 0.1% or use approved alternative emission reduction methods. ECAs have also been established to limit emissions of oxides of nitrogen from newly built ships. Additional ECAs may also be established in the future, with areas around Norway, Japan, and the Mediterranean Sea being considered.

Ballast water discharges are governed by the MARPOL Ballast Water Management Convention, which came into force in 2017 (“The Convention”), and which governs the discharge of ballast water from ships. Ballast water, which is seawater held onboard ships and used for stabilization, may contain a variety of marine species. The Convention is designed to regulate the treatment and discharge of ballast water to avoid the transfer of marine species to new, different, or potentially unsuitable environments. Applicable vessels sailing in specific itineraries have also been upgraded with ballast water treatment systems to further prevent the spread of invasive species.

MARPOL also sets forth requirements for discharges of garbage, oil and sewage from ships, including regulations regarding the ships’ equipment and systems for the control of such discharges, and the provision of port reception facilities for sewage handling. Ships are generally prohibited from discharging sewage into the sea within a specified distance from the nearest land. Governments are required to ensure the provision of adequate reception facilities at ports and terminals for the reception of sewage, without causing delay to ships. Ships are generally required to be equipped with either approved sewage treatment plants, disinfecting systems or sewage holding tanks.

Recently adopted amendments to MARPOL will make the Baltic Sea a “Special Area” where sewage discharges from passenger ships will be prohibited unless they comply with Resolution MEPC 227(64) adopted by the Marine Environmental Protection Committee (“MEPC”) of the IMO. Stricter discharge restrictions went into effect for new passenger ships in 2019, and for existing passenger ships starting in 2021.

These requirements may impact our operations unless suitable port waste facilities are available, or new technologies for onboard waste treatment are developed. Accordingly, the cost of complying with these requirements is not determinable at this time.

In the U.S., the Clean Water Act of 1972, and other laws and regulations, provide the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) and the U.S. Coast Guard with the authority to regulate commercial vessels’ incidental discharges of ballast water, bilge water, gray water, anti-fouling paints and other substances during normal operations while a vessel is in inland waters, within three nautical miles of land, and in designated federally-protected waters. The U.S. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) program, authorized by the Clean Water Act, was established to reduce pollution within U.S. territorial waters. For our affected ships, all of the NPDES requirements are set forth in the EPA’s Vessel General Permit (“VGP”). The VGP establishes effluent limits for 26 specific discharge streams incidental to the normal operation of a vessel. In addition to these discharge- and vessel-specific requirements, the VGP includes requirements for inspections, monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping.

The Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships, which implements certain elements of MARPOL in the U.S., provides for potentially severe civil and criminal penalties related to ship-generated pollution for incidents in U.S. waters within three nautical miles of land and, in some cases, within the 200-nautical mile Exclusive Economic Zone (“EEZ”).

The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”) provides for strict liability for water pollution caused by the discharge of oil in the 200-nautical mile EEZ of the U.S., subject to defined monetary limits. OPA 90 requires that in order for us to operate in U.S. waters, we must have Certificates of Financial Responsibility (“COFR”) from the U.S. Coast Guard for each ship.  Our continued OPA 90 certification signifies our ability to meet the requirements for related OPA 90 liability in the event of an oil spill or release of a hazardous substance.

21

Table of Contents

Many coastal U.S. states have also enacted environmental regulations that impose strict liability for removal costs and damages resulting from a discharge of oil or a release of a hazardous substance. These laws may be more stringent than U.S. federal law and, in some cases, the laws have no statutory limits of liability. Among the most stringent requirements are those set by the State of Alaska, which has enacted legislation that prohibits certain discharges in designated state waters and requires that certain discharges be monitored to verify compliance with the established standards. The legislation also provides that repeat violators of the regulations could be prohibited from operating in Alaskan waters.

The European Union (“E.U.”) has also adopted a substantial and diverse range of environmental measures aimed at maintaining or improving the quality of the environment. To support the implementation and enforcement of European environmental legislation, the E.U. has adopted directives on environmental liability and enforcement as well as a recommendation providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections.

With regard to air emissions from seagoing ships, the E.U. requires the use of low sulfur (less than 0.1%) marine gas oil in E.U. ports. As of January 1, 2020, all non-ECA waters have a 0.5% fuel sulfur limit.

In addition to the existing legal requirements, we are committed to helping to preserve the environment, because a clean, unspoiled environment is a key element that attracts guests to our ships. Furthermore, NCL (Bahamas) Ltd. and NCL America LLC are certified under the International Organization for Standardization’s 14001 Standard. This voluntary standard sets requirements for establishment and implementation of a comprehensive environmental management system which we have adopted for our operations. Currently we operate under an Environmental Management System that is incorporated into the Company’s SMS and promote environmental awareness among our stakeholders both through our corporate global sustainability program, Sail & Sustain, and our annual Stewardship Report.

If we violate or fail to comply with environmental laws, regulations or treaties, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with changing environmental laws, regulations and treaties. Any fines or other sanctions for violation or failure to comply with environmental requirements or any expenditures required to comply with environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, cash flow or financial condition.

Permits for Glacier Bay, Alaska

In connection with certain Alaska cruise operations, we rely on concession permits from the U.S. National Park Service to operate our ships in Glacier Bay National Park and Preserve. We currently hold a concession permit allowing for 41 calls annually through September 30, 2029.

Passenger and Crew Well-Being

In the U.S., we must meet the U.S. Public Health Service’s requirements, which include vessel ratings by inspectors from the Vessel Sanitation Program of the CDC and the FDA. We rate at the top of the range of CDC and FDA scores achieved by the major cruise lines. In addition, the cruise industry and the U.S. Public Health Service have agreed on regulations for food, water and hygiene, aimed at proactively protecting the health of travelers and preventing illness transmission to U.S. ports.

We refer you to “—Strategy for COVID-19—Roadmap to Relaunch” for further information.

Security and Safety

The IMO has adopted safety standards as part of the SOLAS convention, which apply to all our ships. SOLAS establishes requirements for vessel design, structural features, construction methods and materials, refurbishment standards, life-saving equipment, fire protection and detection, safe management and operation and security in order to help ensure the safety and security of our guests and crew. All our crew undergo regular security and safety training exercises that meet all international and national maritime regulations.

22

Table of Contents

SOLAS requires that all cruise ships are certified as having safety procedures that comply with the requirements of the International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (“ISM Code”). All of our ships are certified as to compliance with the ISM Code. Each such certificate is granted for a five-year period and is subject to periodic verification.

The SOLAS requirements are amended and extended by the IMO from time to time. For example, the International Port and Ship Facility Code (“ISPS Code”) was adopted by the IMO in December 2002 with the goal of strengthening maritime security by placing new requirements on governments, port authorities and shipping companies.

Amendments to SOLAS required that ships constructed in accordance with pre-1974 SOLAS requirements install automatic sprinkler systems. IMO adopted an amendment to SOLAS which requires partial bulkheads on stateroom balconies to be of non-combustible construction. The SOLAS regulation implemented Long-Range Identification and Tracking. All our ships are in compliance with the requirements of SOLAS as amended and/or as applicable to the keel-laying date.

In addition to the requirements of the ISPS Code, the U.S. Congress enacted the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”) which implements a number of security measures at ports in the U.S. including measures that apply to ships registered outside the U.S. while docking at ports in the U.S. The U.S. Coast Guard has published MTSA regulations that require a security plan for every ship entering the territorial waters of the U.S., provide for identification requirements for ships entering such waters and establish various procedures for the identification of crew members on such ships. The Transportation Workers Identification Credential is a U.S. requirement for accessibility into and onto U.S. ports and U.S.-flagged ships.

Maritime-Labor

In 2006, the International Labor Organization (“ILO”), an agency of the United Nations that develops and oversees international labor standards, adopted a new Consolidated Maritime Labor Convention (“MLC 2006”). MLC 2006 contains a comprehensive set of global standards based on those that are already found in 68 maritime labor Conventions and Recommendations adopted by the ILO since 1920. MLC 2006 includes a broad range of requirements, such as a broader definition of a seafarer, minimum age of seafarers, medical certificates, recruitment practices, training, repatriation, food, recreational facilities, health and welfare, hours of work and rest, accommodations, wages and entitlements. MLC 2006 added requirements not previously in effect, in the areas of occupational safety and health. MLC 2006 became effective in certain countries commencing August 2013. The Standard of Training Certification and Watch Keeping for Seafarers, as amended (“STCW”), establishes minimum standards relating to training, certification and watch-keeping for our seafarers.

Financial Requirements

The Federal Maritime Commission (“FMC”) requires evidence of financial responsibility for those offering transportation on passenger ships operating out of U.S. ports to indemnify passengers in the event of non-performance of the transportation. Accordingly, each of our three brands are required to maintain a $32.0 million third-party performance guarantee in respect of liabilities for non-performance of transportation and other obligations to passengers. The guarantee requirements are subject to additional consumer price index-based adjustments.

In addition, our brands have a legal requirement to maintain security guarantees based on cruise business originated from the U.K., and certain jurisdictions require us to establish financial responsibility to meet liability in the event of non-performance of our obligations to passengers from those jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2020, we have in place approximately £39.3 million of security guarantees for our brands as well as a consumer protection policy covering up to £48.3 million. The Company has provided approximately $30.5 million in cash to secure all the financial security guarantees required.

Compliance with these regulations has had an impact on our financial condition. From time to time, various other regulatory and legislative changes have been or may in the future be proposed that may have an effect on our operations in the U.S. and the cruise industry in general. We cannot estimate the expenses we may incur to comply with potential new laws or changes to existing laws, or the other potential effects these laws may have on our business.

23

Table of Contents

For information regarding risks associated with our compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, see Part I Item 1A-Risk Factors in this annual report on Form 10-K, including the risk factor titled “We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety, labor, data privacy and protection and maritime laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our operations and any changes in the current laws and regulations could lead to increased costs or decreased revenue.”

Taxation

U.S. Income Taxation

The following discussion is based upon current provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative rulings and court decisions, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. Changes in these authorities may cause the tax consequences to vary substantially from the consequences described below.

Exemption of International Shipping Income under Section 883 of the Code

Under Section 883 of the Code (“Section 883”) and the related regulations, a foreign corporation will be exempt from U.S. federal income taxation on its U.S.-source income derived from the international operation of ships (“shipping income”) if: (a) it is organized in a qualified foreign country, which is one that grants an “equivalent exemption” from tax to corporations organized in the U.S. in respect of each category of shipping income for which exemption is being claimed under Section 883; and (b) either: (1) more than 50% of the value of its stock is beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by qualified shareholders, which includes individuals who are “residents” of a qualified foreign country; (2) one or more classes of its stock representing, in the aggregate, more than 50% of the combined voting power and value of all classes of its stock are “primarily and regularly traded on one or more established securities markets” in a qualified foreign country or in the U.S. (the “publicly traded test”); or (3) it is a “controlled foreign corporation” (a “CFC”) for more than half of the taxable year and more than 50% of its stock is owned by qualified U.S. persons for more than half of the taxable year (the “CFC test”). In addition, U.S. Treasury Regulations require a foreign corporation and certain of its direct and indirect shareholders to satisfy detailed substantiation and reporting requirements.

NCLH is incorporated in Bermuda, a qualified foreign country which grants an equivalent exemption, and NCLH meets the publicly traded test because its ordinary shares were primarily and regularly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). The NYSE is considered to be an established securities market in the U.S. Therefore, we believe that NCLH qualifies for the benefits of Section 883.

We believe and have taken the position that substantially all of NCLH’s income, including the income of its ship-owning subsidiaries, is properly categorized as shipping income, and that we do not have a material amount of non-qualifying income. It is possible, however, that the IRS interpretation of shipping income could differ from ours and that a much larger percentage of our income does not qualify (or will not qualify) as shipping income. Moreover, the exemption for shipping income is only available for years in which we will satisfy complex tests under Section 883. There are factual circumstances beyond our control, including changes in the direct and indirect owners of NCLH’s ordinary shares, which could cause NCLH or its subsidiaries to lose the benefit of the exemption under Section 883. Further, any changes in our operations could significantly increase our exposure to taxation on shipping income, and we can give no assurances on this matter.

Under certain circumstances, changes in the identity, residence or holdings of NCLH’s direct or indirect shareholders could cause NCLH’s ordinary shares not to be regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of the regulations under Section 883. Therefore, as a precautionary matter, NCLH has provided protections in its bye-laws to reduce the risk of such changes impacting our ability to meet the publicly traded test by prohibiting any person from owning, directly, indirectly or constructively, more than 4.9% of NCLH’s ordinary shares unless such ownership is approved by NCLH’s Board of Directors (the “4.9% limit”). Any outstanding shares held in excess of the 4.9% limit will be transferred to and held in a trust.

24

Table of Contents

For 2020, 2019 and 2018, both Regent and Oceania Cruises relied on NCLH’s ability to meet the requirements necessary to qualify for the benefits of Section 883 as discussed above.

Taxation of International Shipping Income Where Section 883 of the Code is Inapplicable

Unless exempt from U.S. federal income taxation, a foreign corporation is subject to U.S. federal income tax in respect of its “shipping income” that is derived from sources within the U.S. If we fail to qualify for the exemption under Section 883 in respect of our U.S.-sourced shipping income, or if the provision was repealed, then we will be subject to taxation in the U.S. on such income.

Generally, “shipping income” is any income that is derived from the use of vessels, from the hiring or leasing of vessels for use on a time, voyage or bareboat charter basis or from the performance of services directly related to those uses. For these purposes, shipping income attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the U.S., which we refer to as “U.S.- source shipping income,” will be considered to be 50% derived from sources within the U.S.

If we do not qualify for exemption under Section 883, or if the provision was repealed, then any U.S.-sourced shipping income or any other income that is considered to be effectively connected income would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income taxation on a net basis (generally at a 21% rate) and state and local taxes, and our effectively connected earnings and profits may also be subject to an additional branch profits tax of 30%, unless a lower treaty rate applies (the “Net Tax Regime”). Our U.S. source shipping income is considered effectively connected income if we have, or are considered to have, a fixed place of business in the U.S. involved in the earning of U.S. source shipping income, and substantially all of our U.S. source shipping income is attributable to regularly scheduled transportation, such as the operation of a vessel that follows a published schedule with repeated sailings at regular intervals between the same points for voyages that begin or end in the U.S.

If we do not have a fixed place of business in the U.S. or substantially all of our income is not derived from regularly scheduled transportation, the income will generally not be considered to be effectively connected income. In that case, we would be subject to a special 4% tax on our U.S. source shipping income (the “4% Tax Regime”).

Other United States Taxation

U.S. Treasury Regulations list several items of income which are not considered to be incidental to the international operation of ships and, to the extent derived from U.S. sources, are subject to U.S. federal income taxes under the Net Tax Regime discussed above. Income items considered non-incidental to the international operation of ships include income from the sale of single-day cruises, shore excursions, air and other transportation, and pre- and post-cruise land packages. We believe that substantially all of our income currently derived from the international operation of ships is shipping income.

Income from U.S.-flagged Operation under the NCL America

Income derived from our U.S.-flagged operation generally will be subject to U.S. corporate income taxes both at the federal and state levels.  We expect that such income will not be subject to U.S. branch profits tax nor a U.S. dividend withholding tax under the U.S.-U.K. Income Tax Treaty.

U.K. Income Taxation

NCLH and NCLC are tax residents of the U.K. and are subject to normal U.K. corporation tax.

U.S. Taxation of Gain on Sale of Vessels

Gains from the sale of vessels should generally also be exempt from tax under Section 883 provided NCLH qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 in respect of our shipping income. If, however, our gain does not qualify for

25

Table of Contents

exemption under Section 883, or if the provision was repealed, then such gain could be subject to either the Net Tax Regime or the 4% Tax Regime.

Certain State, Local and Non-U.S. Tax Matters

We may be subject to state, local and non-U.S. income or non-income taxes in various jurisdictions, including those in which we transact business, own property or reside. We may be required to file tax returns in some or all of those jurisdictions. Our state, local or non-U.S. tax treatment may not conform to the U.S. federal income tax treatment discussed above. We may be required to pay non-U.S. taxes on dispositions of foreign property, or operations involving foreign property may give rise to non-U.S. income or other tax liabilities in amounts that could be substantial.

Changes in Tax Laws

The various tax regimes to which we are currently subject result in a relatively low effective tax rate on our worldwide income. These tax regimes, however, are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect. For example, legislation has been proposed in the past that would eliminate the benefits of the exemption from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 and subject all or a portion of our shipping income to taxation in the U.S. Moreover, we may become subject to new tax regimes and may be unable to take advantage of favorable tax provisions afforded by current or future law including exemption of branch profits and dividend withholding taxes under the U.S.-U.K. Income Tax Treaty on income derived in respect of our U.S.-flagged operation.

Human Capital

At NCLH, our culture is defined by our corporate values of flawless execution, dedication to family and community, spirit of entrepreneurship, financial excellence and environmental stewardship. These values were internally developed and are authentic to our Company as they define success in our culture and establish the foundation upon which it is built. We believe our culture and commitment to our team members attract and retain top talent, while simultaneously providing robust career development opportunities that ultimately results in significant value to our Company and its shareholders.

Demographics

As of December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 3,300 full-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations and approximately 31,000 shipboard employees. Regent and Oceania Cruises’ ships use a third party to provide additional hotel and restaurant staffing onboard. We refer you to “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or the loss of key personnel or employee relations issues may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations” for more information regarding our relationships with union employees and our collective bargaining agreements that are currently in place.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Our Company is committed to fostering an inclusive workforce, where diverse backgrounds are represented, engaged and empowered to generate and execute on innovative ideas.  Our commitment to diversity and inclusion is demonstrated by our Board of Directors, which is 30% female and 50% diverse. Our commitment to seeking female and minority candidates as well as candidates with diverse backgrounds is formalized in our Corporate Governance Guidelines.

Our Company operates globally, with team members representing more than 120 countries. To foster a diverse and inclusive culture, we seek to leverage the talents of all team members, commit to equal employment opportunity (“EEO”) as detailed in our Company’s EEO policy, and deliver unconscious bias, microaggressions and diversity and inclusion training. We have long-term partnerships with the National Diversity Council, sponsoring the Florida Diversity Council and its South Florida local chapter. We also partner with the prestigious International Women’s Forum Fellows Program.  

26

Table of Contents

As of December 31, 2020, the composition of our workforce was as follows:

	

	

Gender diversity (1)
	

Male %
	

Female %

All shoreside team members
	

41%
	

59%

Shoreside Managers/above
	

51%
	

49%

All shipboard team members
	

77%
	

23%

3-stripe/above (equivalent to Manager level)
	

85%
	

15%

 
	

	

Ethnic diversity (2)
	

Non-URMs %
	

URMs %

All shoreside team members in the U.S. who have self-identified
	

36%
	

64%

Shoreside Managers/above in the U.S. who have self-identified
	

53%
	

47%
(1)	While we present male and female, we acknowledge this is not fully encompassing of all gender identities.
(2)	Under-represented minority (“URM”) is used to describe diverse populations, including Native American, Asian, Black, Hispanic/Latino and Native Hawaiian team members in the U.S. We do not generally track ethnicity/race for our shipboard team members as the majority are URMs from a U.S. perspective.

Compensation and Benefits

Critical to our success is identifying, recruiting, retaining top talent and incentivizing existing and future team members.  We attract and retain talented team members by offering competitive compensation and benefits.  Our pay-for-performance compensation philosophy for our shoreside team is based on rewarding each team member’s individual contributions. We use a combination of fixed and variable pay components including base salary, bonus, equity, commissions and merit increases. We maintain a long-term incentive plan for our manager-level team members and above that allows us to provide share-based compensation to enhance our pay-for-performance culture and to support our attraction, retention and motivational goals. Our compensation programs for our shipboard team are similarly competitive and for the majority of this team, negotiated with various unions and documented in collective bargaining agreements.

The success of our Company is connected to the well-being of our team members, such that we offer a competitive benefits package including physical, financial and emotional well-being benefits. We offer our full-time U.S. shoreside team members a choice of Company-subsidized medical and dental programs to meet their needs and those of their families.  In addition, we offer health savings and flexible spending accounts, vision cover, paid time off, employee assistance programs, short term disability and voluntary long-term disability insurance, term life and business travel insurance.  Additionally, we offer a 401(k) retirement savings plan, education assistance including tuition reimbursement and student loan repayment. Our benefits vary by location and are designed to meet or exceed local requirements and to be competitive in the marketplace.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we repatriated our non-essential crew members and transitioned our shoreside team to a remote work environment, which currently remains in place. Our crew repatriation was carried out as quickly as possible given constraints presented by travel restrictions, regulatory requirements and other challenges. We utilized air charters and commercial flights as well as certain of our own vessels to transport crew home. During this time, our crew were compensated according to their respective Collective Bargaining Agreements and were provided WiFi, medical care, accommodations and a daily onboard stipend when in stand down status after the conclusion of their contract. They had continual access to medical professionals to support their physical and mental well-being. The Company also funded housing expenses if quarantine was required upon arrival. While crew members are at home the Company maintains regular contact and provides business updates on our Company as well as the state of the industry to keep them informed.

Due to the global suspension of our cruise voyages since March 13, 2020, we took certain actions to preserve liquidity.  We reduced our salary and benefit expense to a level more commensurate with our operations by reducing salaries and hours worked by 20% across the board during 2020, furloughing certain shoreside team members and generally not backfilling vacated positions. The furlough program was chosen over a reduction in force as it facilitated retention of our valued team members while we await a return to sailing.  Consistent with our family-centric culture, we continued the 

27

Table of Contents

employer subsidy for medical cover for our furloughed team members, and in addition, funded the team member’s portion for our furloughed team and their dependents. We also participated in short time compensation programs in Florida and Arizona to support our team members on 20% reduced hours to receive benefits from their state unemployment offices. Our shoreside offices monitor and follow government legislation and guidance and are prepared to return to our office environments when it is deemed safe to do so. For the protection of our shipboard team members, guests, and communities we visit, our Healthy Sail Panel has developed a comprehensive and multi-faceted health and safety strategy to enhance our already rigorous protocols and address the unique public health challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Training and Development

The opportunity to grow and develop skills and experience, regardless of job role, division or geographic location is critical to the success of the Company as a global organization. We actively foster a culture of learning and offer a variety of developmental courses for our team members. We provide a mentorship program where even our most senior leaders actively participate.  Succession planning is part of our culture.  We have a year-round focus on providing team members with opportunities to develop their leadership skills and add to our bench of talent through various training initiatives. Succession planning and talent review programs allow us to continuously calibrate and evaluate high potential talent, offering talent rotations and investing in development for long-term success.

Shipboard team members have the opportunity to learn the skills and responsibilities of another position in a different department, either to increase their effectiveness in the Company, or to give them the opportunity to shift their career path.

Retention and Engagement

We have a history of strong retention rates across our shoreside and shipboard teams which we attribute to our culture that allows our team members to thrive and achieve their career goals.  Our voluntary retention rate throughout 2020 remained at historical levels despite the impact that the COVID-19 pandemic has had on our Company and industry. We implemented a Standby Pay program in 2020 to retain our key shipboard officers who are off their normal contract rotation, which will facilitate our return to service with our experienced team. 

Exceptional team members are recognized by a robust annual Award of Excellence recognition program which acknowledges and rewards individual team members and teams for their demonstration of Company values.  We recently developed the Kloster Visionary Award which honors the Company’s founder, Knut Kloster, by recognizing a team member whose spirit of innovation follows in the footsteps of this visionary. Through the shipboard Vacation Hero Awards program, shipboard supervisors and management recognize select shipboard team members that have proven to be outstanding in selected categories. This award program is designed to provide recognition and promote total guest satisfaction by encouraging and rewarding team members for demonstrating excellence in service, teamwork, attitude and leadership.

Ports and Facilities

We own a private island in the Bahamas, Great Stirrup Cay, which we utilize as a port-of-call on certain itineraries. We also operate a cruise destination in Belize, Harvest Caye, which we introduced in November 2016. We have developed, in conjunction with PortMiami, a new terminal, which will be our primary facility at the port. In addition, we have entered into various agreements relating to port or berthing rights for our ships, which include the following:
	●	an agreement with the Government of Bermuda whereby we are permitted weekly calls in Bermuda through 2028 from Boston and New York.
	●	contracts for the Port of New Orleans, PortMiami, Port Canaveral, Manhattan Cruise Terminal, A.J. Juneau Dock, Ogden Point Cruise Ship Terminal in Victoria, BC, Port of Southampton, Puerto Costa Maya, Port of Roatan, Puerto Plata, and various Hawaiian ports pursuant to which we receive preferential Berths to the exclusion of other vessels for certain specified days of the week at the terminals.

28

Table of Contents
	●	a concession permit with the U.S. National Park Service whereby our ships are permitted to call on Glacier Bay during each summer cruise season through September 30, 2029.
	●	an agreement with the British Virgin Islands Port Authority granting priority berthing rights for a 15-year term through April 2032 with options to extend the agreement for two additional five-year terms.
	●	an agreement with the West Indian Company Limited granting priority berthing rights in St. Thomas for a 10-year term through September 2026 with an option to extend the agreement for an additional five years.
	●	an agreement with the Port of Seattle for a 15-year lease through October 2030 with an option to extend the agreement for an additional five years.
	●	an agreement with the Huna Totem Corporation that includes preferential berthing rights, for which a second pier in Icy Strait Point, Alaska has been developed.

	●	a 30-year preferential berthing agreement with Ward Cove Dock Group, LLC, who has constructed a new double ship pier in Ward Cove, Ketchikan, Alaska. The pier has been built to simultaneously accommodate two of Norwegian Cruise Line’s 4,000 passenger Breakaway Plus Class Ships.

Available Information

We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Our SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov.

We also maintain an Internet site at http://www.nclhltdinvestor.com. We will, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements and amendments to those reports, if applicable, make available such reports free of charge on our website. Our website also contains other items of interest to our investors, including, but not limited to, investor events, press and earnings releases and sustainability initiatives. References to our website throughout this annual report and the information contained therein or connected thereto are provided for convenience only and the content thereof is not incorporated into, and does not constitute a part of, this annual report on Form 10-K.

Information about our Executive Officers

The following table sets forth certain information regarding NCLH’s executive officers as of February 16, 2021.

	

	

	

	

Name
	

    
	

Age
	

    
	

Position

Frank J. Del Rio
	

 
	

66
	

 
	

Director, President and Chief Executive Officer

Mark A. Kempa
	

 
	

49
	

 
	

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Robert Binder
	

 
	

56
	

 
	

Vice Chairman Oceania Cruises and Regent, President and Chief Executive Officer, Oceania Cruises brand

Jason M. Montague
	

 
	

47
	

 
	

President and Chief Executive Officer, Regent brand

Harry Sommer
	

 
	

53
	

 
	

President and Chief Executive Officer, Norwegian brand

Daniel S. Farkas
	

 
	

52
	

 
	

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary

T. Robin Lindsay
	

 
	

63
	

 
	

Executive Vice President, Vessel Operations

Faye L. Ashby
	

 
	

49
	

 
	

Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer

All the executive officers listed above hold their offices at the pleasure of our Board of Directors, subject to rights under any applicable employment agreements. There are no family relationships between or among any directors and executive officers.

Frank J. Del Rio has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of NCLH since January 2015 and became a director of NCLH in August 2015. Mr. Del Rio has been responsible for the successful integration of NCLH and Prestige

29

Table of Contents

and oversees the financial, operational and strategic performance of the Norwegian, Regent and Oceania Cruises brands. Mr. Del Rio founded Oceania Cruises in October 2002 and served as Chief Executive Officer of Prestige or its predecessor from October 2002 through September 2016. Mr. Del Rio was instrumental in the growth of Oceania Cruises and Regent. Prior to founding Oceania Cruises, Mr. Del Rio played a vital role in the development of Renaissance Cruises, serving as Co-Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1993 to April 2001. Mr. Del Rio holds a B.S. in Accounting from the University of Florida and is a Certified Public Accountant (inactive license).

Mark A. Kempa has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since August 2018. Prior to that, he served as Interim Chief Financial Officer from March 2018 to August 2018 and as NCLH’s Senior Vice President, Finance, from November 2014 to August 2018. From September 2008 to November 2014, he served as Vice President, Corporate and Capital Planning, and was an instrumental figure in the completion of NCLH’s IPO in 2013 and the Acquisition of Prestige in 2014. From January 2007 to August 2008, he served as Director, Corporate and Capital Planning. From January 2003 to December 2006, he served as Director, Newbuild Cost and Control. In this role, he spent almost three years representing the financial interests of the Company’s expansive newbuild program while positioned overseas in Germany. From May 1998 to December 2002, he served in various roles in accounting and internal audit. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Kempa served as the Assistant Controller for International Voyager Media, a travel portfolio company. Mr. Kempa holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting from Barry University.

Robert J. Binder has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Oceania Cruises brand since September 2016 and as Vice Chairman, Oceania Cruises and Regent since May 2015. He served as President of International Operations from February 2015 until May 2015. Prior to the Acquisition of Prestige in November 2014, Mr. Binder served as the Vice Chairman of Prestige since May 2011 and as President of Prestige since January 2008, where he oversaw the global expansion of the Prestige brands and was responsible for sales, marketing and branding efforts internationally. Mr. Binder is co-founder of Oceania Cruises and previously served as President of Oceania Cruises. Before launching Oceania Cruises, Mr. Binder was the President of Meadowoods Consulting, which provided consulting services to the financial and travel services industries. From 1992 to 2001, he held several executive positions in the cruise industry. Mr. Binder also held senior management positions at JP Morgan Chase, where he was a Strategic Planning Officer, and at Renaissance Cruises, where he was Vice President of Sales. Mr. Binder earned master’s degrees in both Finance and Marketing from Cornell University and did his undergraduate studies at Purdue University.

Jason M. Montague has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Regent brand since September 2016. In this role, he is responsible for financial and day-to-day operations of the Regent brand. Previously, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer for the Oceania Cruises and Regent brands from December 2014 until September 2016, where he successfully oversaw the launch of Sirena for the Oceania Cruises brand and the Seven Seas Explorer for the Regent brand. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Integration Officer for NCLH during the Acquisition of Prestige. Before the acquisition by NCLH, he served as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President for Prestige, from September 2010 until November 2014. During his 12-year tenure at Prestige, Mr. Montague helped build the business plan for the launch of Oceania Cruises in 2002, including oversight for the purchase of its initial three R-class vessels, was involved with the equity investment by Apollo Global Management, LLC and acquisition of Regent Seven Seas Cruises, and drove financing and delivery of Oceania Cruises’ newbuilds, Marina and Riviera. Mr. Montague served as Oceania Cruises’ Vice President and Treasurer from 2004 to 2007 and Senior Vice President of Finance from 2008 to 2010. Prior to joining Oceania Cruises, Mr. Montague operated a successful consulting practice focused on strategic planning and development of small to medium-sized companies. Previously, he held the position of Vice President, Finance for Alton Entertainment Corporation, a brand equity marketer that was majority owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies. Mr. Montague holds a B.B.A. in Accounting from the University of Miami.

Harry Sommer has served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Norwegian Cruise Line, since January 2020 and was President, International, from January 2019 to January 2020. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, International Business Development from May 2015 to January 2019. From February 2015 until May 2015, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Integration Officer for NCLH. Mr. Sommer previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of Prestige from October 2013 until February 2015, Senior Vice President, Finance, and Chief Information Officer of Prestige from September 2011 until October 2013 and Senior Vice President,

30

Table of Contents

Accounting, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller of Prestige from August 2009 until August 2011. Prior to joining Prestige, Mr. Sommer was the co-founder and President of Luxury Cruise Center, a high-end travel agency and prior to that, held various marketing and finance roles at Renaissance Cruises. Mr. Sommer holds an M.B.A. from Pace University and a B.B.A. from Baruch College.

Daniel S. Farkas has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of NCLH since January 2019. He has also served as Assistant Secretary of the Company since 2013. Since Mr. Farkas joined the Company in January 2004, he has held the positions of Secretary from 2010 to 2013, Senior Vice President and General Counsel from 2008 through 2018, Vice President and Assistant General Counsel from 2005 to 2008, and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2005 and was instrumental in the Company’s IPO and the Acquisition of Prestige. Mr. Farkas was formerly a partner in the Miami offices of the law firm Mase and Gassenheimer specializing in maritime litigation. Before that he was an Assistant State Attorney for the Eleventh Judicial Circuit in and for Miami-Dade County, Florida. Mr. Farkas currently serves as Chairman of the board of directors of the Cruise Industry Charitable Foundation and on the board of directors of the Steamship Mutual Underwriting Association Limited. Mr. Farkas earned a B.A., cum laude, in English and American Literature from Brandeis University and a J.D. from the University of Miami.

T. Robin Lindsay has served as Executive Vice President, Vessel Operations, for NCLH since January 2015. From November 2014 until January 2015, Mr. Lindsay served as Executive Vice President, Newbuild, for Prestige. Prior to the Acquisition of Prestige, he served as the Executive Vice President of Vessel Operations for Prestige from January 2008 until November 2014 and Senior Vice President of Hotel Operations from February 2003 until January 2008 and oversaw all marine, technical and hotel operations. Mr. Lindsay was instrumental in the extensive refurbishment and launch of Oceania Cruises’ Regatta, Insignia and Nautica and the development of the Marina and Riviera. Mr. Lindsay possesses a substantial amount of experience in the cruise industry and has overseen the design and construction of many of the industry’s most acclaimed cruise ships. Prior to joining Oceania Cruises in 2003, Mr. Lindsay was the Senior Vice President of Vessel Operations at Silversea Cruises and, prior to that, Vice President of Operations at Radisson Seven Seas Cruises. Mr. Lindsay earned his B.S. degree from Louisiana Tech University.

Faye L. Ashby has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of NCLH since February 2016. She joined NCLH as Controller in November 2014 after the Acquisition of Prestige and served in that position until February 2016. From January 2012 to November 2014, Ms. Ashby served as Controller for Prestige, where she managed and developed the Accounting and External Financial Reporting teams. From March 2010 to December 2011, Ms. Ashby held the position of Senior Director of Financial Reporting with Prestige, where she started the Financial Reporting Department and was responsible for the preparation of annual financial statements, coordination of external audits and researching technical accounting issues. Before joining Prestige, Ms. Ashby was a Senior Manager at the international public accounting firm of Deloitte. She has an M.B.A. and B.B.A. with concentrations in accounting from the University of Miami and is a Certified Public Accountant in Florida.
