NISOURCE INC.
NiSource Inc. is an energy holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 whose primary subsidiaries are fully regulated natural gas and electric utility companies, serving approximately 3.7 million customers in six states. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to NiSource on April 14, 1999.
NiSource’s principal subsidiaries include NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., a natural gas distribution holding company, and NIPSCO, a gas and electric company. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating results of these rate-regulated businesses.
On February 26, 2020, NiSource and Columbia of Massachusetts entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with Eversource (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"). Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Asset Purchase Agreement, NiSource and Columbia of Massachusetts agreed to sell to Eversource, with certain additions and exceptions: (1) substantially all of the assets of Columbia of Massachusetts and (2) all of the assets held by any of Columbia of Massachusetts’ affiliates that primarily relate to the Massachusetts Business, and (3) Eversource agreed to assume certain liabilities of Columbia of Massachusetts and its affiliates. The closing of the transaction occurred on October 9, 2020. Refer to Note 1-A, "Company Structure and Principles of Consolidation," Note 7, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," Note 20-C. "Legal Proceedings," and Note 20-E. "Other Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
The COVID-19 pandemic has had widespread effects, including impacts on the communities in which we serve as well as our business operations. NiSource has been pro-active in adjusting its operating procedures in response to the pandemic, including customer facing and field activities as well as our back-office support. Through 2020, we have not experienced material impacts to our ongoing or planned construction, replacement and maintenance activities as a result of the pandemic. Please refer to specific and potential impacts of the pandemic in Item 1A, "Risk Factors", Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
NiSource’s reportable segments are: Gas Distribution Operations and Electric Operations. The following is a summary of the business for each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 24, "Segments of Business," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information for each segment.
Gas Distribution Operations
Our natural gas distribution operations serve approximately 3.2 million customers in six states. We operate approximately 53,700 miles of distribution main pipeline plus the associated individual customer service lines and 1,700 miles of transmission main pipeline located in our service areas described below. Throughout our service areas we also have gate stations and other operations support facilities. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary NiSource Gas Distribution Group, Inc., we own five distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to approximately 2.4 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Kentucky, and Maryland. Additionally, we distribute natural gas to approximately 848,000 customers in northern Indiana through our wholly-owned subsidiary NIPSCO.
Rates include provisions to adjust billings for fluctuations in the cost of natural gas. Revenues are adjusted for differences between actual costs, subject to reconciliation, and the amounts billed in current rates.
Electric Operations
We generate, transmit and distribute electricity through our subsidiary NIPSCO to approximately 479,000 customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and also engage in wholesale electric and transmission transactions. NIPSCO owns and operates two coal-fired electric generating stations: four units at R.M. Schahfer located in Wheatfield, IN and one unit at Michigan City located in Michigan City, IN. The two operating facilities have a generating capacity of 2,080 MW. NIPSCO also owns and operates (i) Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant located in West Terre Haute, IN with generating capacity of 571 MW; (ii) two gas-fired generating units located at R.M. Schahfer with a generating capacity of 155 MW; and (iii) two hydroelectric generating plants with a generating capacity of 10 MW (Oakdale located at Lake Freeman in Carroll County, IN and Norway located at Lake Schahfer in White County, IN). These facilities provide for a total system operating generating capacity of 2,816 MW. NIPSCO is the managing partner in Rosewater Wind Generation LLC, a joint venture that owns and operates 102 MW of nameplate generating capacity in White County, IN. Refer to Note 4 "Variable Interest Entities" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.
In May 2018, NIPSCO completed the retirement of two coal-burning units at Bailly Generating Station, located in Chesterton, IN. These units had a generating capacity of approximately 460 MW, which was replaced through various electric purchase agreements.
6
Table of Contents

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
NISOURCE INC.
NIPSCO’s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 765,000 volts, consists of 3,009 circuit miles. NIPSCO is interconnected with eight neighboring electric utilities. During the year ended December 31, 2020, NIPSCO generated 68.8% and purchased 31.2% of its electric requirements.
NIPSCO participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with FERC regulations to improve the flow of electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO is responsible for managing energy markets, transmission constraints and the day-ahead, real-time, Financial Transmission Rights and ancillary markets. NIPSCO transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to MISO, and transmission service for NIPSCO occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.
Business Strategy
We focus our business strategy on providing safe and reliable service through our core, rate-regulated asset-based utilities, which generate substantially all of our operating income. Our utilities continue to move forward on core safety, infrastructure and environmental investment programs supported by complementary regulatory and customer initiatives across all six states in which we operate. Our goal is to develop strategies that benefit all stakeholders as we (i) address changing customer conservation patterns, (ii) align our price structures with our cost structure, and (iii) embark on long-term investment programs. These strategies focus on improving safety and reliability, enhancing customer service, lowering customer bills and reducing emissions while generating sustainable returns.
The safety of our customers, communities and employees remains our top priority. The SMS transitioned in 2020 from an accelerated project launch to an established operating model within NiSource. With the continued support and advice from the Quality Review Board, a panel of third parties with safety operations expertise engaged by management to advise on safety matters, we are continuing to mature our SMS processes, capabilities and talent as we collaborate within and across industries to enhance safety and reduce operational risk.
In its 2018 Integrated Resource Plan submission to the IURC, NIPSCO laid out a plan to retire the R.M. Schahfer Generating Station by 2023 and Michigan City Generating Station by 2028. These units represent 72% of NIPSCO’s remaining generation capacity. The current replacement plan includes renewable sources of energy, including wind, solar, and battery storage, to be obtained through a combination of NIPSCO investment and PPAs. Refer to Note 20-E, "Other Matters," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these plans.
Rate Case Actions
The following table describes current rate case actions as applicable in each of our jurisdictions net of tracker impacts. See "Cost Recovery and Trackers" below for further detail on trackers.
																							
(in millions)						
Company	Proposed ROE	Approved ROE	Requested Incremental Revenue	Approved Incremental Revenue	Filed	Status	Rates
Effective
NIPSCO - Electric(1)
	10.80 	%	9.75 	%	$	21.4 		$	(53.5)		October 31, 2018	Approved
December 4, 2019	January 2020
Columbia of Pennsylvania(2)
	9.86 	%	N/A	$	76.8 		In process	April 24, 2020	Order Expected
Q1 2021	January 2021
Columbia of Maryland	10.95 	%	
None specified(3)
	$	5.0 		$	2.0 		May 15, 2020	Approved
November 7, 2020	December 2020
(1)Rates were implemented in two steps, with implementation of step 1 rates effective on January 2, 2020 and step 2 rates effective on March 2, 2020.
(2)On December 4, 2020, a Recommended Decision was issued by the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) for the PUC to "deny the Company's request in its entirety because it has not met its burden of providing, by substantial evidence, that the proposed base rate revenue increase will result in just and reasonable rates, as required by 66 Pa.C.S.A. § 1301 during the current Coronavirus-2019 pandemic." Columbia of Pennsylvania filed Exceptions to the ALJ’s Recommended Decision on December 22, 2020 in which the Company proposed an increase of $76.8 million to be implemented in two steps: (1) an increase of $38.4 million to be effective January 23, 2021 through June 30, 2021, and defer revenue related to the remaining increase to regulatory assets during this phase, and (2) the remaining increase of $38.4 million to be implemented on July 1, 2021. Columbia of Pennsylvania proposed to recover the revenue deferred to a Regulatory Asset during the initial phase over a one-year period beginning January 1, 2022 and ending December 31, 2022. A Final Order from the PUC is expected during the first quarter of 2021 for rates effective retroactively on January 23, 2021.
(3)Columbia of Maryland's rate case resulted in a black box settlement, representing a settlement to a specific revenue increase but not a specified ROE. The settlement provides use of a 9.60% ROE for future Make Whole and Infrastructure Tracker filings.
7
Table of Contents

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
NISOURCE INC.
Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment
The regulatory frameworks applicable to our operations, including environmental regulations, at both the state and federal levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on our operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be more competitive and profitable in this environment. We believe we are, in all material respects, in compliance with such laws and regulations and do not expect continued compliance to have a material impact on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. We continue to monitor existing and pending laws and regulations, and the impact of regulatory changes cannot be predicted with certainty. Refer to Note 20-D, "Environmental Matters" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding environmental regulations that are applicable to our operations.
The Gas Distribution Operations utilities have pursued non-traditional revenue sources within the evolving natural gas marketplace. These efforts include (i) the sale of products and services upstream of the companies’ service territory, (ii) the sale of products and services in the companies’ service territories, and (iii) gas supply cost incentive mechanisms for service to their core markets. The upstream products are made up of transactions that occur between an individual Gas Distribution Operations utility and a buyer for the sales of unbundled or rebundled gas supply and capacity. The on-system services are offered by us to customers and include products such as the transportation and balancing of gas on the Gas Distribution Operations utility's system. The incentive mechanisms give the Gas Distribution Operations utilities an opportunity to share in the savings created from such situations as gas purchase prices paid below an agreed upon benchmark and their ability to reduce pipeline capacity charges with their customers.
Increased efficiency of natural gas appliances and improvements in home building codes and standards has contributed to a long-term trend of declining average use per customer. While historical rate design at the distribution level has been structured such that a large portion of cost recovery is based upon throughput rather than in a fixed charge, operating costs are largely incurred on a fixed basis and do not fluctuate due to changes in customer usage. As a result, Gas Distribution Operations have pursued changes in rate design to more effectively match recoveries with costs incurred. Each of the states in which Gas Distribution Operations operate has different requirements regarding the procedure for establishing changes to rate design. Columbia of Ohio has adopted a decoupled rate design that closely links the recovery of fixed costs with fixed charges. Columbia of Maryland and Columbia of Virginia have regulatory approval for weather and revenue normalization adjustments for certain customer classes, which adjust monthly revenues that exceed or fall short of approved levels. Columbia of Pennsylvania continues to operate its pilot residential weather normalization adjustment. Columbia of Kentucky incorporates a weather normalization adjustment. In a prior gas base rate proceeding, NIPSCO implemented a higher fixed customer charge for residential and small customer classes moving toward recovering more of its fixed costs through a fixed recovery charge, but has no weather or usage protection mechanism.
Cost Recovery and Trackers. Comparability of our line item operating results are impacted by regulatory trackers that allow for the future recovery in rates of certain costs as described below. Increases in expenses that are the subject to approved regulatory tracker mechanisms generally lead to increased regulatory assets, which ultimately result in a corresponding increase in operating revenues and, therefore, have essentially no impact on total operating income results. Certain approved regulatory tracker mechanisms allow for abbreviated regulatory proceedings in order for the operating companies to quickly implement revised rates and recover associated costs.
A portion of the Gas Distribution revenue is related to the recovery of gas costs, the review and recovery of which occurs through standard regulatory proceedings. All states in our operating area require periodic review of actual gas procurement activity to determine prudence and confirm the recovery of prudently incurred energy commodity costs supplied to customers.
A portion of the Electric Operations revenue is related to the recovery of fuel costs to generate power and the fuel costs related to purchased power. These costs are recovered through a FAC, which is updated quarterly to reflect actual costs incurred to supply electricity to customers.
Natural Gas Competition.    Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the deregulation of the gas supply has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC customers can purchase gas directly from producers and marketers in an open, competitive market. This separation or “unbundling” of the transportation and other services offered by LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent of services provided by LDCs. LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the associated costs from their customers. Our Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries are involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas requirements from third parties and use our Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries for transportation services.
8
Table of Contents

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
NISOURCE INC.
Gas Distribution Operations competes with (i) investor-owned, municipal, and cooperative electric utilities throughout its service areas, (ii) other regulated and unregulated natural gas intra and interstate pipelines and (iii) other alternate fuels, such as propane and fuel oil. Gas Distribution Operations continues to be a strong competitor in the energy market as a result of strong customer preference for natural gas. Competition with providers of electricity has traditionally been the strongest in the residential and commercial markets of Kentucky, southern Ohio, central Pennsylvania and western Virginia due to comparatively low electric rates.
Electric Competition.    Indiana electric utilities generally have exclusive service areas under Indiana regulations, and retail electric customers in Indiana do not have the ability to choose their electric supplier. NIPSCO faces non-utility competition from other energy sources, such as self-generation by large industrial customers and other distributed energy sources. 
Seasonality
A significant portion of our operations are subject to seasonal fluctuations in sales. During the heating and cooling seasons, revenues from gas and electric sales, respectively, are more significant than in other months. The heating season is primarily from November through March, and the cooling season is primarily from June through September.
Human Capital
Human Capital Goals and Objectives. We have aligned our human capital goals to achieve the overall company objectives by driving an enhanced talent strategy, elevating support for front-line leaders, fostering a culture of rigor and accountability and strengthening our Human Resources function as a whole.
Workforce Composition. As of December 31, 2020, we had 7,301 full-time and 88 part-time employees. 2,728 employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements with various labor unions. Six of these agreements covering 527 employees are set to expire within one year.
Diversity. Our talent acquisition teams hired 612 external candidates in 2020 across all business segments. 35% of external hires were female and 18% were racially or ethnically diverse. In 2020, we engaged with community-based organizations, conducted career interest workshops in local schools, and focused our employee mentorship program on females. We also led a separate targeted development program for select employees to support the growth and development of female and ethnically diverse talent. We offered several employee resource groups (“ERGs”) and hosted mostly virtual activities throughout 2020. We have ERGs set up to support African-American, LatinX, veterans, LGBTQ+, female and Asian employees, among others, and held several sponsored conversations between senior executives and the ERGs.
The following provides the diversity breakdown of NiSource as of December 31, 2020:
nix-20201231_g1.jpg
Talent Development. We offer leadership development programs to enhance the behaviors and skills of our existing and future leaders. In 2020, we had participation from employees of all levels. We also offer extensive technical and non-technical
9
Table of Contents

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
NISOURCE INC.
employee training programs. Additionally, we strive to provide promotion and advancement opportunities for employees. In 2020, 84% of all leadership positions at the supervisor and above level were filled internally. Succession planning is regularly conducted to ensure bench strength for leadership positions. We utilize retention bonuses and conduct stay conversations in order to retain talent. Retention at NiSource in 2020 was over 93%. Retention is calculated using the total number of terminations divided by the average headcount for the annual period, not including the impacts from the sale of the Massachusetts Business and voluntary separation programs.
Employee Safety and Wellness. We have a number of programs to support employees and their families’ physical, mental, and financial well-being. These programs include a paid wellness day, telemedicine services, an Employee Assistance Program, Integrated Health Management navigation services, employee paid sick/disability leave and paid illness in family days, competitive medical, dental, vision, life and long term disability programs including employee health savings account company contributions and no cost registered financial planner counseling.
In response to COVID-19, we have implemented procedures designed to protect our employees who work in the field and who continue to work in operational and corporate facilities, including social distancing, wearing face coverings, temperature checks and more frequent cleaning of equipment and facilities. We have also implemented work-from-home policies and practices. We have minimized non-essential work that requires an employee to enter a customer premise and limited company vehicle occupancy to one person, where possible. We continue to employ physical and cybersecurity measures to ensure that our operational and support systems remain functional. Our actions to date have mitigated the spread of COVID-19 amongst our employees. We will continue to follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ("CDC") guidance and implement safety measures intended to ensure employee and customer safety during the pandemic.
Other Relevant Business Information
Our customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a significant portion of revenues.
For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21.
We electronically file various reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports, as well as our proxy statements for the Company's annual meetings of stockholders at http://www.sec.gov. Additionally, we make all SEC filings available without charge to the public on our web site at http://www.nisource.com. The information contained on our website is not included in, nor incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
