“Newell Brands” or the “Company” refers to Newell Brands Inc. alone or with its wholly owned subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words “we,” “us” or “our,” it refers to the Company and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. The Company was founded in Ogdensburg, New York in 1903 and is incorporated in Delaware.

Website Access to Securities and Exchange Commission Reports

The Company makes available free of charge on or through its website its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as practicable after the Company files them with, or furnishes them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company’s Internet website can be found at www.newellbrands.com. The information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual report on Form 10-K.

GENERAL

Newell Brands is a leading global consumer goods company with a strong portfolio of well-known brands, including Rubbermaid®, Paper Mate®, Sharpie®, Dymo®, EXPO®, Parker®, Elmer’s®, Coleman®, Marmot®, Oster®, Sunbeam®, FoodSaver®, Mr. Coffee®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Graco®, Baby Jogger®, NUK®, Calphalon®, Contigo®, First Alert®, Mapa®, Spontex® and Yankee Candle®. Newell Brands is committed to enhancing the lives of consumers around the world with planet-friendly, innovative and attractive products that create moments of joy and provide peace of mind. The Company sells its products in nearly 200 countries around the world and has operations on the ground in over 40 of these countries, excluding third-party distributors.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

The Company is continuing to execute on its turnaround strategy of building a global, next generation consumer products company that can unleash the full potential of its brands in a fast moving omni-channel environment. The strategy, developed in 2019, is designed to drive sustainable top line growth, improve operating margins, accelerate cash conversion cycle and strengthen the portfolio, organizational capabilities and employee engagement, while addressing key challenges facing the Company. These challenges include: shifting consumer preferences and behaviors; a highly competitive operating environment; a rapidly changing retail landscape, including the growth in e-commerce; continued macroeconomic and political volatility; and an evolving regulatory landscape. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and its impact to the Company’s business resulted in the acceleration of these initiatives in many respects.

The Company has made significant progress on the following imperatives it previously identified as part of its turnaround strategy:

•Strengthening the portfolio by investing in attractive categories aligned with its capabilities and strategy;
•Driving sustainable profitable growth by focusing on innovation, as well as growth in digital marketing, e-commerce and its international businesses;
•Improving margins by driving productivity and overhead savings, while reinvesting into the business;
•Enhancing cash efficiency by improving key working capital metrics, resulting in a lower cash conversion cycle; and
•Building a winning team through engagement and focusing the best people on the right things.

Continued execution of these strategic imperatives will better position the Company for long-term sustainable growth.

Coronavirus (COVID-19)

Beginning late in the fourth quarter of 2019 through 2020 and into 2021, COVID-19 emerged and subsequently spread globally, ultimately being declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. The pandemic resulted in various federal, state and local governments, as well as private entities, mandating restrictions on travel and public gatherings, closure of non-essential commerce, stay at home orders and quarantining of people to limit exposure to the virus. The Company's global operations, similar to those of many large, multi-national corporations, experienced significant COVID-19 related disruption to its business in three primary areas:

•Supply chain. While the majority of the Company’s factories are considered essential in their applicable jurisdictions and have remained operational, the Company experienced disruption at certain of its facilities. Of its 135 manufacturing and distribution facilities, approximately 20 were temporarily closed at the end of the first quarter of 2020, the most significant of which were its South Deerfield, MA, Home Fragrance plant, its Mexicali, Mexico and India Writing facilities and its
1

Juarez, Mexico Connected Home and Security facility, all of which were closed in accordance with state government guidelines. By the end of the third quarter of 2020, substantially all of the Company's manufacturing and distribution facilities reopened and were operating at or near capacity. Since then, the Company's facilities have replenished most of the inventory levels that were depleted by lost production during the temporary closure period. The Company does, however, continue to face intermittent supply and labor shortages, capacity constraints, and transportation and logistical challenges and expects this to persist until the current economic and public health conditions improve globally.

•Retail. While the Company’s largest retail customers experienced a surge in sales as their stores remained open, a number of secondary customers, primarily in the specialty and department store channels, temporarily closed their brick and mortar doors in March 2020, and began to reopen in certain regions where conditions improved towards the end of the second quarter of 2020. These dynamics, in combination with some retailers’ prioritization of essential items, have had a meaningful impact on the Company's traditional order patterns. In addition, the Company temporarily closed its Yankee Candle retail stores in North America as of mid-March. All of these stores reopened by the end of the third quarter and have remained open since.

•Consumer demand patterns. During the quarantine phase of the pandemic, consumer purchasing behavior strongly shifted to certain focused categories. While certain of the Company’s product categories in the Food, Commercial and Appliances and Cookware business benefited from this shift, others, particularly the Writing business, experienced significant slowing. Changes in consumer purchasing patterns, temporary office closures, as well as the shift to remote learning for schools and other higher education programs in the Fall semester of 2020 adversely impacted the performance of the Writing business during 2020.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company focused on protecting the health and well-being of its employees; maintaining financial viability and business continuity; and keeping manufacturing facilities and distribution centers operating, where permitted and deemed prudent, to provide products to our consumers. The Company put in place internal protocols including the establishment of a COVID-19 task force to monitor the situation, as well as communications and guidance issued by foreign, federal, state and local governments. The Company instituted mandatory work-from-home policies for employees able to work from home in various locations around the world and implemented a number of precautionary measures at its manufacturing plants, warehouses, distribution centers and R&D centers to reduce person-to-person contact and improve the personal safety for our front-line employees. Furthermore, the Company temporarily closed all of the world-wide Yankee Candle retail stores. By the end of the third quarter of 2020, all of the Company’s temporarily closed manufacturing and distribution sites reopened and were operating at or near capacity. In addition, most of the Company's office locations have reopened on a limited basis.

The Company continues to monitor developments, including government requirements and recommendations at the national, state, and local level to evaluate possible cessation or extensions to all or part of such COVID-19 precautionary initiatives. As part of the Company's efforts to contain costs and maintain financial liquidity and flexibility, it instituted a hiring freeze for non-essential roles, furloughed all field-based and most corporate retail employees in North America, from April 1, 2020 through the third quarter of 2020, tightened discretionary spending, reduced non-essential travel and optimized advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, the Company announced a restructuring program during the second quarter of 2020 to reduce overhead costs, streamline certain underperforming operations and improve future profitability.

While the negative effects from the COVID-19 global pandemic in the first half of 2020 were material to the Company's operating results, the Company saw positive momentum, which included sales growth during the second half of the year and strong liquidity with over $1.4 billion in operating cash flow for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company believes, however, the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to its businesses, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition will be primarily driven by the severity and duration of the pandemic, the impact of new strains and variants of the coronavirus, the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies and the timing, scope and effectiveness of federal, state and local governmental plans to administer vaccines to the general public, especially in areas where conditions have recently worsened and lockdowns or travel bans have been reinstituted. Those primary drivers are beyond the Company's knowledge and control, and as a result, at this time it is difficult to predict the cumulative impact, both in terms of severity and duration, COVID-19 will have on its future sales, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, the impact to the Company's businesses, operating results, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition may be further adversely impacted if the COVID-19 global pandemic continues to exist or worsens for a prolonged period of time or if plans to administer vaccines are delayed.

See Recent Developments, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Critical Accounting Estimates in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Footnotes 1 and 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

2

Organizational Structure

The Company’s five primary operating segments are as follows:

														
Segment		Key Brands		Description of Primary Products
Appliances and Cookware		Calphalon®, Crock-Pot®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster® and Sunbeam®		Household products, including kitchen appliances, gourmet cookware, bakeware and cutlery
Commercial Solutions		BRK®, First Alert®, Mapa®, Quickie®, Rubbermaid®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, and Spontex®		Commercial cleaning and maintenance solutions; closet and garage organization; hygiene systems and material handling solutions; connected home and security and smoke and carbon monoxide alarms
Home Solutions		Ball® (1), Chesapeake Bay Candle®, FoodSaver®, Rubbermaid®, Sistema®, WoodWick® and Yankee Candle®		Food and home storage products; fresh preserving products, vacuum sealing products and home fragrance products
Learning and Development		Aprica®, Baby Jogger®, Dymo®, Elmer’s®, EXPO®, Graco®, Mr. Sketch®, NUK®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Prismacolor®, Sharpie®, Tigex® Waterman® and X-Acto®		Baby gear and infant care products; writing instruments, including markers and highlighters, pens and pencils; art products; activity-based adhesive and cutting products and labeling solutions
Outdoor and Recreation		Coleman®, Contigo®, ExOfficio®, Marmot®		Products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities
(1) nwl-20201231_g1.gif and Ball®, TMs Ball Corporation, used under license.

This structure reflects the manner in which the chief operating decision maker regularly assesses information for decision-making purposes, including the allocation of resources. The Company also provides general corporate services to its segments which is reported as a non-operating segment, Corporate. See Footnote 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Appliances and Cookware

The Appliances and Cookware segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes a diverse line of household products. Kitchen appliances are primarily sold under the Crock-Pot®, Mr. Coffee®, Oster® and Sunbeam® trademarks. Aluminum and stainless-steel cookware and bakeware are sold under the Calphalon® trademark. The Appliances and Cookware segment also has rights to sell various small appliance products in substantially all of Europe under the Breville® brand name.

The Appliances and Cookware segment primarily markets its products directly to warehouse clubs, department stores, drug/grocery stores, home centers, mass merchants, specialty retailers, distributors and e-commerce companies.

Commercial Solutions

The Commercial Solutions segment designs, manufactures, sources, and distributes commercial cleaning and maintenance solutions products, closet and garage organization products; hygiene systems and material handling solutions primarily under the Quickie®, Mapa®, Rubbermaid®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products® and Spontex® trademarks. The Company also manufactures and distributes connected home and security products as well as smoke and carbon monoxide alarms mostly under the BRK® and First Alert® trademarks.

The Commercial Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to warehouse clubs, department stores, home centers, commercial products distributors, mass merchants, specialty retailers, distributors, e-commerce companies, select contract customers and other professional customers.

Home Solutions

The Home Solutions segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes a diverse line of household products. Food storage products are sold primarily under the FoodSaver®, Rubbermaid® and Sistema® trademarks. The Company also sells certain home canning and food storage products under the Ball® trademark, pursuant to a license from Ball Corporation. Home fragrance products are sold primarily under the Chesapeake Bay Candle®, WoodWick® and Yankee Candle® trademarks.

3

The Home Solutions segment primarily markets its products directly to warehouse clubs, department stores, grocery stores, home centers, mass merchants, specialty retailers, distributors and e-commerce companies, as well as direct to consumers online and in Yankee Candle retail stores.

Learning and Development

The Learning and Development segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes writing instruments, including markers and highlighters, pens and pencils; art products; activity-based adhesive and cutting products; labeling solutions; baby gear and infant care products. Writing instruments, activity-based adhesive and cutting products and labeling solutions products are sold primarily under the Dymo®, Elmer’s®, EXPO®, Mr. Sketch®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Prismacolor®, Sharpie®, Waterman® and X-Acto® trademarks. Baby gear and infant care and health products are sold primarily under the Baby Jogger®, Graco®, NUK® and Tigex® trademarks.

The Learning and Development segment primarily markets its products directly to mass merchants, warehouse clubs, drug/grocery stores, office superstores, office supply stores, contract stationers, travel retail, distributors and e-commerce companies, and direct to consumers online.

Outdoor and Recreation

The Outdoor and Recreation segment designs, manufactures, sources, markets and distributes global consumer active lifestyle products for outdoor and outdoor-related activities. Active lifestyle products are sold primarily under the Coleman®, Contigo®, ExOfficio® and Marmot® trademarks.

The Outdoor and Recreation segment primarily markets its products directly to warehouse clubs, department stores, grocery stores, mass merchants, sporting goods and specialty retailers, distributors and e-commerce companies, as well as direct to consumers online.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion.

OTHER INFORMATION

Multi-Product Offering

The Company’s broad product offering in multiple categories permits it to more effectively meet the needs of its customers. With families of leading brand names and profitable and innovative new products, the Company can assist volume purchasers in selling a more profitable product mix. As a potential single source for an entire product line, the Company can use program merchandising to improve product presentation, optimize display space for both sales and income, and encourage impulse buying by retail consumers.

Raw Materials and Sourced Finished Goods

The Company has multiple foreign and domestic sources of supply for substantially all of its material requirements. The raw materials and various purchased components required for its products have generally been available in sufficient quantities, although the Company did experience capacity constraints around certain raw materials and finished goods in 2020 driven largely by demand volatility related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company’s product offerings require the purchase of resin, corrugate, glass, plastic, expanded polystyrene, extinguisher powder, nylon, paper, plastic resin, sawdust, tin plate, wax and wood, natural rubber, electrical components, glass fiber, magnesium, adhesives, various paper-related packaging materials and metals, including steel, stainless steel, aluminum and copper. The Company’s resin purchases are principally comprised of polyethylene, polypropylene and copolyester.

The Company also relies on third-party manufacturers as a source for finished goods. Historically, the Company has experienced inflation in sourced product costs due to currency fluctuations and increased input and labor costs. For a limited number of product lines, a single manufacturer or a limited number of manufacturers may supply substantially all the finished goods for a product line. In particular, certain businesses within the Company’s Learning and Development segment rely on third-party manufacturers for substantially all of their products. Specifically, the Baby business unit has a single source of supply for products that comprise a majority of its sales and which owns the intellectual property for many of those products.

Backlog

The dollar value of unshipped orders is not material.
4


Seasonal Variations

Sales of the Company’s products tend to be seasonal, with sales, operating income and operating cash flow in the first quarter generally lower than any other quarter during the year, driven principally by reduced volume and the mix of products sold in the first quarter. The seasonality of the Company’s sales volume combined with the accounting for fixed costs, such as depreciation, amortization, rent, personnel costs and interest expense, impacts the Company’s results on a quarterly basis. In addition, the Company tends to generate the majority of its operating cash flow in the third and fourth quarters of the year due to seasonal variations in operating results, the timing of annual performance-based compensation payments, customer program payments, working capital requirements and credit terms provided to customers.

In 2020, the Company's sales and operating results were disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic, negatively impacting the Company's performance during the first half of the year, partially offset by positive performance during the second half of the year. The Company believes the seasonality of its businesses will revert back to historical patterns as the impact of the global pandemic lessens.

Patents and Trademarks

The Company has many patents, trademarks, brand names and tradenames that are, in the aggregate, important to its business. The Company’s most significant registered trademarks include Aprica®, Baby Jogger®, Calphalon®, Campingaz®, Coleman®, Contigo®, Crock-Pot®, Dymo®, Elmer’s®, EXPO®, First Alert®, FoodSaver®, Graco®, Mapa®, Marmot®, Mr. Coffee®, NUK®, Oster®, Paper Mate®, Parker®, Quickie®, Rubbermaid Commercial Products®, Rubbermaid®, Sistema®, Spontex®, Sunbeam®, WoodWick®, Sharpie® and Yankee Candle®.

Customers/Competition

The Company’s principal customers are large mass merchandisers, such as discount stores, home centers, warehouse clubs, office superstores, direct-to-consumer channels, specialty retailers and wholesalers, commercial distributors and e-commerce companies. The dominant share of the market represented by large mass merchandisers, together with consumer shopping patterns, contributes to a market environment in which dominant multi-category retailers and e-commerce companies have strong negotiating power with suppliers. This environment may limit the Company’s ability to recover cost increases through pricing.

Current trends among retailers and e-commerce companies include fostering high levels of competition among suppliers, reducing current inventory levels, demanding innovative new products and products tailored to each of their unique requirements and requiring suppliers to maintain or reduce product prices and deliver products with shorter lead times. Other trends, in the absence of a strong new product development effort or strong end-user brands, are for retailers and e-commerce companies to import generic products directly from foreign sources and to source and sell products under their own private label brands, which compete with the Company’s products. The combination of these market influences has created an intensely competitive environment in which the Company’s principal customers continuously evaluate which product suppliers to use, resulting in downward pricing pressures and the need for big, consumer-meaningful brands, the ongoing introduction and commercialization of innovative new products, continuing improvements in category management and customer service, and the maintenance of strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company competes with numerous manufacturers and distributors of consumer products, many of which are large and well-established. Our Yankee Candle retail stores compete primarily with specialty candle and personal care retailers and a variety of other retailers, including department stores, gift stores and national specialty retailers that sells candles.

The Company’s principal methods of meeting its competitive challenges are creating and maintaining leading brands and differentiated products that deliver superior value and performance; delivering superior customer service and consistent on-time delivery and producing and procuring products at a competitive cost. In addition, the Company has experienced management that focuses on building consumer loyalty and increased consumer demand through increased investment in consumer insights and using those insights to develop innovative products and product features that meet consumers’ needs.

The Company has also positioned itself to respond to the competitive challenges in the retail environment by developing strong relationships with large, high-volume purchasers. The Company markets its strong multi-product offering through virtually every category of high-volume retailers, including discount, drug/grocery and variety chains; warehouse clubs; department, hardware and specialty stores; home centers; office superstores; contract stationers; and e-commerce companies. The Company’s largest customer, Walmart Inc. and subsidiaries (“Walmart”), accounted for approximately 15% of net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Amazon, the Company's second largest customer, accounted for 12%, 9%, and 8% of net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company’s top-ten customers in 2020 included (in alphabetical order): Amazon, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Costco, Lowe’s, Kroger, Office Depot, Staples, Target, The Home Depot and Walmart.

5

Environmental Matters

Information regarding the Company’s environmental matters is included in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in Footnote 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated by reference herein.

Research and Development

The Company’s research and development efforts focus on developing new, differentiated and innovative products to meet consumers’ needs. The Company’s product development efforts begin with consumer insights. The Company continues to invest to strengthen its product design, research and development capabilities and has consolidated its design and innovation capabilities and consumer marketing and insight capabilities into a global center of excellence to further strengthen these capabilities.

Human Capital Management

Newell Brands is committed to creating a workplace where it supports the success of its people by investing in their personal development and career growth. The Company has employees located throughout the world. At December 31, 2020, the Company employed approximately 31,000 people worldwide. Approximately 3,300 were in the Asia-Pacific region, 4,600 were in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, 7,700 were in the Latin America region and 15,400 were in the North America region. Of the Company's total employees, approximately 16,000 were employed in manufacturing and supply chain roles. The Company's strong employee base, along with its commitment to uncompromising values, provides the foundation of the Company’s success.

The Company's employees are responsible for upholding the Company's goal of creating a safer, sustainable, productive, and consumer-focused future. The Company's values of Transparency, Truth, Trust and Teamwork guide our own actions as well as our relationships with consumers, customers, suppliers and each other. They are grounded in a people-first philosophy enabling the Company to deliver results, drive long-term sustainability and promote a winning culture. The Company tracks and reports internally on key talent metrics including workforce demographics, critical role pipeline data, diversity data, and engagement and inclusion indices.

The Company embraces diversity, inclusion and belonging, and strongly believes that a truly consumer-focused workforce should be as diverse as the customers it serves and leverage the skills and perspectives of a wealth of backgrounds of all team members. To attract a global and diverse workforce, the Company strives to build a culture where employees can bring their whole selves to work. Employee resource groups (“ERGs”) are Company-sponsored groups of employees that support and promote certain mutual objectives of both the employees and the Company, including inclusion and diversity and the professional development of employees. The ERGs provide a space where employees can foster connections and develop in a supportive environment. At December 31, 2020, the Company had five ERGs:

•BEACON (Black and African ancestry);
•RAY (Women);
•OPEN (LGBTQ);
•NAAPA (Asian-American); and
•HOLA (Hispanic and Latinx).

The Company is focused on recruitment of diverse candidates and on internal talent development of its diverse leaders so they can advance their careers and move into leadership positions within the Company. The Company has adopted a policy requiring diverse slates for recruitment at the Director level and above. Also, during 2019, the Company conducted a fully digital, enterprise-wide engagement survey, which was given to all professional and clerical employees (excluding factory or hourly employees) and was available in 12 languages, which focused on measuring engagement and inclusion.

The Company continues to emphasize employee development and training, and strives to align and deliver its People Agenda with its business strategies to recruit, develop and retain the right talent, skills and capabilities to deliver on its commitments. To empower employees, the Company provides a range of development programs and opportunities, skills, and resources needed to be successful. Our Grow@Newell eLearning platform, which is an online portal, supplements the Company's talent development strategies with access to instructor-led classroom or virtual courses and self-directed web-based courses. The Company has a robust talent and succession planning process and has established specialized programs to support the development of its talent pipeline for critical roles in general management, engineering, and operations. On an annual basis, the Company conducts an Organization and Leadership Review process with its chief executive officer and all segment, business unit, and function leaders focusing on high -performing and high-potential talent, diverse talent, and the succession for its most critical roles.

6

The Company believes its management team has the experience necessary to effectively execute its strategy and advance its product and technology leadership. The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee Team have meaningful industry experience. They partner and work closely with an experienced and talented management team who is dedicated to maintaining and expanding our position as a global leader in the consumer products industry. For discussion of the risks relating to the attraction and retention of key management and executive employees, see the “Risk Factors” section below.
