Company Overview
NXP Semiconductors N.V. is a global semiconductor company and a long-standing supplier in the industry, with over 50 years of innovation and operating history. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we generated revenue of $8,612 million, compared to $8,877 million for the year ended December 31, 2019.

We provide leading solutions that leverage our combined portfolio of intellectual property, deep application knowledge, process technology and manufacturing expertise in the domains of cryptography-security, high-speed interface, radio frequency (RF), mixed-signal analog-digital (mixed A/D), power management, digital signal processing and embedded system design. Our product solutions are used in a wide range of end-market applications including: automotive, industrial & Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, and communication infrastructure. We engage with leading global original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and sell products in all major geographic regions.

Our legal name is NXP Semiconductors N.V. and our commercial name is “NXP” or “NXP Semiconductors.” We were incorporated in the Netherlands in 2006 as a Dutch public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap). We are a holding company (the “Holding Company”) whose only material assets are the direct ownership of 100% of the shares of NXP B.V., a Dutch private company with limited liability (besloten vennootschap met beperkte aansprakelijkheid). For additional information regarding the general development of the Company's business, see Part I, Item I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 as filed with the SEC on February 27, 2020.

Our corporate seat is in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. Our principal executive office is at High Tech Campus 60, 5656 AG Eindhoven, the Netherlands, and our telephone number is +31 40 2729999. Our registered agent in the United States is NXP USA, Inc., 6501 William Cannon Dr. West, Austin, Texas 78735, United States of America, phone number +1 512 9338214.

Semiconductor Market Overview
Semiconductors perform a broad variety of functions within electronic products and systems, including processing data, sensing, storing information and converting or controlling electronic signals. Semiconductors vary significantly depending upon the specific function or application of the end product in which the semiconductor is used and the customer who is deploying it. Semiconductors also vary on a number of technical characteristics including the degree of integration, level of customization, programmability and the process technology utilized to manufacture the semiconductor. Advances in semiconductor technology have increased the functionality and performance of semiconductors, improving their features and power consumption characteristics while reducing their size and cost. These advances have resulted in growth of semiconductors and electronic content across a diverse array of products. The semiconductor market totaled $440.4 billion in 2020.

Reporting Segments
Prior to January 1, 2019, High Performance Mixed Signal (HPMS) was our sole reportable segment. Corporate and Other represented the remaining portion to reconcile to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2019, NXP removed the reference to HPMS in its organizational structure in acknowledgement of the one reportable segment representing the entity as a whole and reflects the way in which our chief operating decision maker executes operating decisions, allocates resources, and manages the growth and profitability of the Company.

End-market Exposure
Our product groups are focused on four primary end-markets that we believe are characterized by long-term, attractive growth opportunities and where we enjoy sustained, competitive differentiation through our technology leadership. The four end-markets are Automotive, Industrial & IoT, Mobile, and Communication Infrastructure & Other.
3

														
	Automotive	Industrial & IoT	Mobile	Comm Infra & Other
Key Applications	ADAS/Radar
Connected Infotainment
Vehicle Networks
Electrification
Secure Car Access
eCockpit
Body Comfort & Convenience
Powertrain	Factory and Building Automation
Smart Home and Building Control
Home Entertainment
Power and Energy
Medical
Smart Retail
Smart Appliances

	Smartphones
Wearables
Tablets
Mobile Accessories	Wireless Basestations
Enterprise Data Center Network & Security
Wired and Wireless Service Provider Infrastructure
Banking Cards Government ID documents
Transit Cards
RFID Tagging
Growth Drivers	Vehicle electrification and automation
Government requirements & consumer demands for increased safety, reliability, comfort and efficiency
Increase need of security across all applications	Shift from mechanical to electronic equipment
Increasing processing and connectivity
Increasing use of low-power nodes
Energy efficiency
Predictive maintenance Automation
Machine Learning 	Mobile Wallet/Mobile Transit
Custom Interface/Power solutions	5G development/Massive MiMo and mmwave
Increasing demand for bandwidth, cloud computing
IoT

i.Automotive
Growth in automotive semiconductor sales relies on global vehicle sales and production trends and the increase in semiconductor content per vehicle, which is being driven by the proliferation of electronic features throughout the vehicle. Despite the decline in vehicles sales and production in 2020 due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 (the "COVID-19 Pandemic"), the increase in semiconductor content per vehicle continued.

We believe two mega-trends will drive the semiconductor content increase in the future: Electrification and autonomy. The path to full autonomy is driving the increase of driver assistance systems in the car already today. In the same way, tight emissions regulations are accelerating the penetration of electrification.

Semiconductor content per vehicle continues to increase due to government regulation of safety and emissions, standardization of higher-end options across a greater number of vehicle classes as well as consumer demand for greater fuel efficiency, advanced safety, multimedia applications and connectivity. Automotive safety features are evolving from passive safety systems to active safety systems with Advanced Driving Assisted Systems (ADAS) such as radar and vision systems. Semiconductor content is also increasing in engine management and fuel economy applications, like Battery Management Systems (BMS). Comfort and convenience systems and user interface applications, such as a digital cockpit with multiple large interactive screens, are also areas with high semiconductor content increases. In addition, the use of networking in automotive applications continues to increase as various subsystems communicate within the automobile and with external devices and networks. Smart car access and automotive Near-Field Communication (NFC) are gaining ground in automotive as well, enabling the connection of vehicles and car keys to portable devices and the infrastructure. Data integrity and security hardware features for safeguarding memory, communication and system data are also increasing in importance. 

Due to the high degree of regulatory scrutiny and safety requirements, the automotive semiconductor market is characterized by stringent qualification processes, zero defect quality processes, functionally safe design architecture, high reliability, extensive design-in timeframes and long product life cycles which results in significant barriers to entry.

ii.Industrial & IoT
The world is becoming smarter, more connected and more data driven, and the Industrial & IoT market sits at the center of this global digital transformation. The Industrial & IoT market is highly fragmented with a diverse collection of products and applications such as factory automation, power and energy, medical electronics, smart retail, smart home, smart appliances and home entertainment.

Growth in the Industrial market is driven by the replacement of traditional mechanical equipment by smart and connected electronic equipment using various sensors, processors, connectivity and security chipsets that align well with NXP’s ability to provide a complete range of processing, connectivity and secure solutions. In IoT, growth is driven by the increasing use of high-performance edge and media devices (e.g. home entertainment, connected home assistants, home control and security) and low power IoT nodes (e.g. smart
4

home, hearables, health trackers) where NXP scalable solutions across the entire embedded processing spectrum are ideally suited. Working from home strongly increased in 2020 due to the COVID-19 outbreak and this had a positive impact on some applications (e.g. smart home devices, home entertainment and gaming consoles) within our Industrial & IoT business.

The increase in productivity with real-time insights and efficient processes for factory automation, the enhancement in consumer convenience, security and comfort for smart homes, the reduction of resource consumption and better energy efficiency for smart appliances, the increase in performance of rich media content in smart consumer devices and the need for better health prevention and monitoring solutions (wearables, smart patches and smart drug delivery devices) to help ensure the future health of millions of people are some of the key use-cases driving growth in Industrial & IoT.

Finally, with the growing number of connected devices, latency, privacy and bandwidth become critical limiting factors and Edge computing solves this by bringing the intelligence closer to the source. Security and tamper-detection capabilities are also becoming essential features of these Industrial & IoT solutions.

iii.Mobile
Mobile includes applications such as smartphones, feature phones, tablets, wearables and mobile accessories. NXP has a strong focus on mobile wallet and specialty custom analog solutions. The demand for faster speeds, improved battery life, fast charging, mobile wallet, mobile transit and authentication is driving increased semiconductor content for NXP. The growth in this market is mainly driven by the increasing attach rate of these features across devices, vendors and regions, from flagship smartphones down to feature phones, from developed countries to emerging regions. The introduction of new technologies and new use-cases around secured connectivity, high-speed interfaces and charging creates additional opportunities for NXP.

iv.Communication Infrastructure & Other
Growth in the network communication market is driven by strong demand for digital content, ubiquitous access, security, increased enterprise adoption of advanced video communication and the trend towards an increasingly global and mobile workforce. These factors have driven greater adoption of both mobile and fixed Internet services and smart devices, cloud computing environments, Internet Protocol television and online gaming. With the trend toward increasingly media-rich applications such as video sharing platforms, social networks, high definition (HD) movie downloads, video conferencing, wireless connectivity and enterprise access, Internet traffic is increasing continuously. The growth in data traffic is resulting in service providers, enterprises and consumers demanding an increase in the amount of wireless infrastructure, networking and electronic equipment. Providers of wireless infrastructure, networking and storage equipment are introducing new technologies and products with enhanced performance and functionality while reducing design and manufacturing costs. As more and more data is being exchanged and consumed by billions of connected devices, 5G, the new mobile communication technology, enables fast data transfer, low latency and reliability. 5G can support services that require immediate and uninterrupted connectivity. More bandwidth and higher frequencies are needed, requiring more compute power. More base stations are needed and massive multi-chip modules (MIMO) - which provides better throughput and better spectrum efficiency - will greatly expand the number of antennas needed. Small cells will also be deployed to improve coverage and capacity of wireless networks. The COVID-19 pandemic is showing the critical role of digital networking in today’s society. Workplaces have changed en masse from office to home. Consumers and enterprise need to adapt to changing working conditions, leading to increasing demand for better digital communication capabilities.

In secure identification solutions, the demand for applications requiring the highest security and reliability shifts towards solutions with a contactless RF interface driven by the increasing adoption of contactless ePassports, eID credentials, transportation and payment cards. Radio-Frequency IDentification (RFID) can be used to identify and authenticate objects and is designed to fulfill the requirements of a wide range of applications across numerous vertical markets. RFID technology is entering new markets, such as interactive gaming and toys, and various applications to track goods through the supply chain and keep track of inventory. In addition, there is an increasing demand for authentication and anti-counterfeit solutions to protect manufacturers and consumers.
5


Products
We offer customers a broad portfolio of semiconductor products including microcontrollers, application processors, communication processors, connectivity chipsets, analog and interface devices, RF power amplifiers, security controllers and sensors. A key element of our strategy is to offer highly integrated and secure solutions that are increasingly sought by our customers to simplify their development efforts and shorten their time to market. We believe we have the broadest ARM processor portfolio in the industry from microcontrollers to crossover processors and from application processors to communication processors.

i.Microcontrollers
We have been a provider of MCU solutions for more than 40 years. MCUs integrate all the major components of a computing system onto a single semiconductor device. Typically, this includes a programmable processor core, memory, interface circuitry and other components. MCUs provide the digital logic, or intelligence, for electronic applications, controlling electronic equipment or analyzing sensor inputs. We are a trusted, long-term supplier of MCUs to many of our customers, especially in the automotive, smartcards and industrial markets. Our MCU product portfolio ranges from 8-bit products to higher performance 16-bit and 32-bit products with on-board flash memory. Our portfolio is highly scalable, and is coupled with our extensive software and design tools. This enables our customers to design-in and deploy our MCU families, leveraging a consistent software development environment. Due to the scalability of our portfolio we are able to help future-proof our customer’s products as their systems evolve, becoming more complex or requiring greater processing capabilities over time. For automotive applications, our microcontrollers deliver the required reliability, security and functional safety to address current and future automotive challenges. In an increasingly connected and networked society, where security is playing a more important role, our MCU families are equipped with varying security features (such as remote authentication, system/data integrity, secure communication and anomaly detection) to address different type of security risks. Our new i.MX RT crossover processors are built using applications processors chassis, delivering a high level of integration, high speed peripherals, enhanced security, and engines for enhanced user experience (for example, 2D/3D graphics), but powered by a low-power MCU core running a real-time operating system like Amazon Free RTOS or Zephyr RTOS. The i.MX RT series offers the high performing Arm Cortex-M core, real-time functionality, and MCU usability at an affordable price.

ii.Application Processors
Application processors consist of a computing core with embedded memory and special-purpose hardware and software for secure multimedia applications such as graphics and video. Our products focus on consumer devices, industrial applications and automotive applications, like driver information systems, ADAS and vehicle networking that require processing and multimedia capabilities. We provide highly integrated ARM-based i.MX application processors with integrated audio, video and graphics capability that are optimized for low-power and high-performance applications. Our i.MX family of processors are designed in conjunction with a broad suite of additional products including power management solutions, audio codecs, touch sensors and accelerometers to provide full systems solutions across a wide range of operating systems and applications. Our i.MX 8 family of applications processors is a feature and performance scalable multi-core platform that includes single, dual and quad-core families based on the Arm Cortex architecture for advanced graphics, imaging, machine vision, audio, voice, video, and safety-critical applications. Together, these products provide a family of applications processors featuring software, power and pin compatibility across single, dual and quad core implementations. Software support includes Linux and Android implementations. Our S32x Automotive Processing Platform offers scalability across products and multiple application domains based on Arm Cortex-A, Cortex-R, and Cortex-M cores with Automotive Safety Integrity Level (ASIL-D) capabilities.

iii.Communication Processors
Communication processors combine a computing core, caches and other memories, with high-speed networking and input/output interfaces, such as Ethernet and PCI Express. Our portfolio includes 64-bit Arm-based Layerscape processors with up to 16 CPUs and Ethernet ports running at up to 100Gbps. Software support includes Linux and commercial real-time operating systems. Within enterprise and data-center communications infrastructure, our processors are used in switches, routers, SD-WAN access devices, Wi-Fi access points, and network security systems. Within service-provider communications infrastructure, our processors are used in cellular base stations, fixed wireless access Customer Premises Equipment (CPE), residential gateways,
6

broadband aggregation systems, and core networking equipment. Although designed for use in communications infrastructure, these processors also find widespread use in other types of equipment, including industrial automation for control, edge computing nodes, cloud computing servers for offloading networking functions, and automobiles for communications and some ADAS functions. We also offer Layerscape Access processors, which implement baseband functions, principally for wireless systems such as 5G fixed wireless access, using programmable vector signal processors.

iv.Wireless Connectivity
We offer a broad portfolio of connectivity solutions, including Near Field Communications (NFC), Ultra-wideband (UWB), Bluetooth low-energy (BLE), Zigbee as well as Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi/Bluetooth integrated SoCs. These products are integrated into a wide variety of end devices, such as mobile phones, wearables, enterprise access points, home gateways, voice assistants, multimedia devices, gaming consoles, printers, automotive infotainment and smart industrial devices.

v.Analog and Interface Products
We have a very broad portfolio of Analog and Interface products that are used in many markets, particularly automotive, industrial/IoT and mobile. In automotive we are the market leader in most of the applications, with integrated 77Ghz Radar solution for ADAS, battery management products for Electrification, audio processing solutions and amplifiers for car entertainment, Controller Area Network (CAN), Local Interconnect Network (LIN), FlexRay and Ethernet solutions for in-vehicle networking and two-way secure products for secure car access. In Industrial/IoT and mobile, we are a major supplier in interface, power and high-performance analog products. Our product portfolios includes I2C/I³C, General Purpose Input/Output (GPIO), LED controllers, real-time clocks, signal and load switches, signal integrity products, wired charging solutions, fast charging solutions, DC-DC, AC-DC converters and high-performance RF amplifiers. We have also successfully engaged with leading OEMs to drive custom and semi-custom products which in turn allow us to refine and accelerate our innovation and product roadmaps.

vi.Radio Frequency Devices
NXP is the market leader in High-Performance Radio Frequency (HPRF) power amplifiers. We have an extensive portfolio of LDMOS, GaN and GaAs RF transistors. NXP’s solutions range from sub-6GHz to 40GHz and from milliwatts to kilowatts. For base stations, NXP offers a full range of solutions addressing 5G RF power amplification needs from MIMO to massive MIMO based active antenna systems for cellular and millimeter Wave (mmWave) spectrum bands. We are engaged with the majority of the largest customers in mobile base stations and in several other application areas. In low and medium Power Amplification, NXPs low noise amplifier (LNA) portfolio offers solutions to meet future design needs in a wide range of applications. Two technologies serve the LNA portfolio, each with distinct advantages for their applications. Wireless infrastructure applications and many general wireless applications are served with III-V technology LNAs. Advanced SiGe technology is utilized in LNAs designed for wireless communication, cellular, consumer, automotive and industrial applications.

vii.Security Controllers
NXP is the market leader in security controller ICs. Our security controller ICs are embedded in smart cards (ePassports, electronic ID credentials, payment cards and transportation cards), as well as in consumer electronic and smart devices, for example in smartphones, tablets and wearables. These security controller ICs are suited for applications demanding the highest security and reliability. Nearly all of our security products consist of multi-functional solutions comprised of passive RF connectivity devices facilitating information transfer from the user document to reader infrastructure; secure, tamper-proof microcontroller devices in which information is securely encrypted (“secure element”); and secure real-time operating system software products to facilitate the encryption-decryption of data, and the interaction with the reader infrastructure systems. Our solutions are developed to provide extreme levels of security of user information, undergoing stringent and continued global governmental and banking certification processes, and to deliver a high level of device performance enabling significant throughput and productivity to our customers.


7

viii.Sensors
Sensors serve as a primary interface in embedded systems for advanced human interface and contextual awareness that mimic the human “5 senses” interaction with the external environment. We provide several categories of semiconductor-based environmental and inertial sensors for the Automotive market, including pressure, inertial, magnetic and gyroscopic sensors that provide orientation detection, gesture recognition, tilt to scroll functionality and position detection.

Manufacturing
We manufacture integrated circuits and discrete semiconductors through a combination of wholly owned manufacturing facilities, a manufacturing facility operated jointly with another semiconductor company and third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. We manage our manufacturing assets together through one centralized organization to ensure we realize scale benefits in asset utilization, purchasing volumes and overhead leverage across businesses.

In the future, we expect to outsource an increased part of our internal demand for wafer foundry and packaging services to third-party manufacturing sources in order to increase our flexibility to accommodate increased demand.

The manufacturing of a semiconductor involves several phases of production, which can be broadly divided into “front-end” and “back-end” processes. Front-end processes take place at highly complex wafer manufacturing facilities (called fabrication plants or “wafer fabs”), and involve the imprinting of substrate silicon wafers with the precise circuitry required for semiconductors to function. The front-end production cycle requires high levels of precision and involves as many as 300 process steps. Back-end processes involve the assembly, test and packaging of semiconductors in a form suitable for distribution. In contrast to the highly complex front-end process, back-end processing is generally less complicated, and as a result we tend to determine the location of our back-end facilities based more on cost factors than on technical considerations.

We primarily focus our internal and joint venture wafer manufacturing operations on running proprietary specialty process technologies that enable us to differentiate our products on key performance features, and we generally outsource wafer manufacturing in process technologies that are available at third-party wafer foundries when it is economical to do so. In addition, we increasingly focus our in-house manufacturing on our competitive 8-inch wafer facilities, which predominantly run manufacturing processes in the 140 nanometer, 180 nanometer and 250 nanometer process nodes. This focus increases our return on invested capital and reduces capital expenditures.

Our front-end manufacturing facilities use a broad range of production processes and proprietary design methods, including complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS), bipolar, bipolar CMOS (BiCMOS) and double-diffused metal on silicon oxide semiconductor (DMOS) technologies. Our wafer fabs produce semiconductors with line widths ranging from 90 nanometers to 3 microns for integrated circuits and 0.5 microns to greater than 4 microns for discretes. This broad technology portfolio enables us to meet increasing demand from customers for system solutions, which require a variety of technologies.

Our back-end manufacturing facilities test and package many different types of products using a wide variety of processes. To optimize flexibility, we use shared technology platforms for our back-end assembly operations. Most of our assembly and test activities are maintained in-house.


8

The following table shows selected key information with respect to our major front-end and back-end facilities:
																										
Site		Ownership		Wafer sized used		Line widths used (vm)		Technology/Products
					(Microns)		
Front-end								
Singapore (SSMC)¹⁾		61.2 	%		8”		0.14-0.25		CMOS, eNVM, Power, BCDMOS, RF
Nijmegen, the Netherlands		100 	%		8”		0.14-1.00		CMOS, BCDMOS, RF, Power MOSFET
Austin (Oak Hill), United States		100 	%		8”		0.25-1.50		CMOS, Sensors, RF, Power MOSFET
Chandler, United States		100 	%		8”		0.25-0.50		CMOS, eNVM, BCDMOS
Chandler RF, United States		100 	%		6”		0.25-0.40		GaN
Austin (Ed Bluestein), United States		100 	%		8”		0.09-0.18		CMOS, eNVM, BCDMOS, Radar
								
Back-end
								
Kaohsiung, Taiwan		100 	%		— 			— 			NFC, Automotive Car-access, Micro-controllers
Bangkok, Thailand		100 	%		— 			— 			Automotive In-Vehicle Networking and Sensors, Banking and e-Passport modules
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia		100 	%		— 			— 			Micro-processors, Micro-controllers, Power Management, Analog and Mixed Signal, RF devices
Tianjin, China		100 	%		— 			— 			Micro-controllers, Analog and Sensors
1)    Joint venture with TSMC; we are entitled to 60% of the joint venture’s annual capacity.

We use a large number of raw materials in our front- and back-end manufacturing processes, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases, lead frames, substrates, molding compounds and various types of precious and other metals. Our most important raw materials are the raw, or substrate, silicon wafers we use to make our semiconductors. We purchase these wafers, which must meet exacting specifications, from a limited number of suppliers in the geographic region in which our fabrication facilities are located. At our wholly owned fabrication plants, we use raw wafers ranging from 6 inches to 8 inches in size. Our SSMC wafer fab facility, which produces 8 inch wafers, is jointly owned by TSMC and ourselves. Emerging fabrication technologies employ larger wafer sizes and, accordingly, we expect that our production requirements will in the future shift towards larger substrate wafers.

We typically source our other raw materials in a similar fashion as our wafers, although our portfolio of suppliers is more diverse. Some of our suppliers provide us with materials on a just-in-time basis, which permits us to reduce our procurement costs and the negative cash flow consequences of maintaining inventories, but exposes us to potential supply chain interruptions. We purchase most of our raw materials on the basis of fixed price contracts, but generally do not commit ourselves to long-term purchase obligations, which permits us to renegotiate prices periodically.

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, semiconductor supply chains have been under more pressure. As a result, there has been a tendency towards longer term contracts with suppliers in exchange for capacity. From an operational perspective, all of our manufacturing facilities continue to operate around the world in accordance with guidance issued by local and national government authorities.


9

Sales, Marketing and Customers
We market our products and solutions worldwide to a variety of OEMs, Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers and distributors. We generate demand for our products by delivering product solutions to our customers, and supporting their system design-in activities by providing application architecture expertise and local field application engineering support.

Our sales and marketing teams are organized into five regions, which are EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa), the Americas, Japan, South Korea and Greater China (including Asia Pacific). These sales regions are responsible for managing customer relationships and creating demand for our solutions through the full ecosystem development, including our distributors and at our large number of mass market customers.

Our sales and marketing strategy focuses on key defined verticals in Automotive, Mobile, Industrial & IoT and Communication Infrastructure, deepening our relationship with our top OEMs and electronic manufacturing service customers, expanding our reach to our mass market customers, startups and our distribution partners and becoming their preferred supplier, which we believe assists us in reducing sales volatility in challenging markets. We have long-standing customer relationships with most of our customers. Our 10 largest OEM end customers, some of whom are supplied by distributors, in alphabetical order, are Apple, Aptiv, Bosch, Continental, Denso, Ericsson, Huawei, LG, Samsung and Visteon. We also have a strong position with our distribution partners, including our three largest, Arrow, Avnet and SAC.

Our revenue is primarily the sum of our direct sales to OEMs plus our distributors’ resale of NXP products. Avnet accounted for 17% of our revenue in 2020 and 14% in 2019. No other distributor accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue. Continental accounted for less than 10% of our revenue in 2020 and 11% in 2019. No other OEM for which we had direct sales to accounted for more than 10% revenue in 2020 or 2019.

Research and Development
We believe that our future success depends on our ability to both improve our existing products and to develop new products for both existing and new markets. We direct our research and development efforts largely to the development of new semiconductor solutions where we see significant opportunities for growth. We target applications that require stringent overall system and subsystem performance. As new and challenging applications proliferate, we believe that many of these applications will benefit from our solutions. We have assembled a global team of highly skilled semiconductor and embedded software design engineers with expertise in RF, analog, power management, interface, security and digital processing.

To outpace market growth we invest in research and development to extend or create leading market positions, with an emphasis on fast growing sizable market segments, such as ADAS, in-vehicle networks and power management, as well as Edge computing to support the successful deployment in the IoT with our cross-over processing technology, but also in emerging markets, such as massive MIMO in RF Power and mmWave for 5G. In addition, we invest a few percent of our total research and development expenditures in research activities that develop fundamental new technologies or product categories that could contribute significantly to our company's growth in the future.

We annually perform a fundamental review of our business portfolio and our related new product and technology development opportunities in order to decide on changes in the allocation of our research and development resources. For products targeting established markets, we evaluate our research and development expenditures based on clear business need and risk assessments. For break-through technologies and new market opportunities, we look at the strategic fit and synergies with the rest of our portfolio and the size of the potential addressable market. Overall, we allocate our research and development to maintain a healthy mix of emerging growth and mature businesses.

Intellectual Property
The creation and use of intellectual property is a key aspect of our strategy to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies by obtaining patents, trademarks, domain names, retaining trade secrets and defending, enforcing and utilizing our intellectual property rights, where appropriate.
10

We believe this strategy allows us to preserve the advantages of our products and technologies, and helps us to improve the return on our investment in research and development. We have a broad portfolio of approximately 9,500 patent families (each patent family includes all patents and patent applications originating from the same invention). To protect confidential technical information and software, we rely on copyright and trade secret law and enter into confidentiality agreements as applicable. In situations where we believe that a third party has infringed on our intellectual property, we enforce our rights through all available legal means to the extent that we determine the benefits of such actions to outweigh the costs and risks involved.

We own a number of trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business. Where we consider it desirable, we develop names for our new products and secure trademark protection. Our trademarks allow us to further distinguish our company and our products and are important in our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and end-users.

While our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights constitute valuable assets, we do not view any individual right or asset as material to our operations as a whole. We believe it is the combination of our proprietary technology, patents, know-how and other intellectual property rights and assets that creates an advantage for our business.

In addition to obtaining our own patents and other intellectual property rights, we have entered into licensing agreements and other arrangements authorizing us to use intellectual property rights, confidential technical information, software and other technology owned by third parties. We also engage, in certain instances, in licensing and selling of certain of our technology, patents and other intellectual property rights.

Competition
We compete with many different semiconductor companies, including multinational companies with integrated research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations across a broad spectrum of product lines, “fabless” semiconductor companies, and companies that are focused on a single application market segment or standard product. Most of these competitors compete with us with respect to some, but not all, of our businesses.

Our key competitors in alphabetical order include Analog Devices, Inc, Infineon Technologies AG, Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Mediatek, Microchip Technology Inc., Nordic Semiconductor ASA, Power Integrations Inc, Qorvo, Qualcomm, Inc, Renesas Electronics Corp, Silicon Laboratories, STMicroelectronics NV and Texas Instruments Incorporated.

The basis on which we compete varies across end markets and geographic regions. This includes competing on the basis of our ability to timely develop new products and the underlying intellectual property and on meeting customer requirements in terms of cost, product features, quality, warranty and availability. In addition, our system solutions businesses require in-depth knowledge of a given application market in order to develop robust system solutions and qualified customer support resources.

Seasonality
Historically, our net revenue has typically been higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, accelerating in the third and fourth quarters.

Government Regulation, including Environmental Regulation
The information set forth under the “Environmental remediation” caption of Note 16 of our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with government and environmental regulation, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors.


11

Board of Directors
Our Board of Directors, including their ages and positions as of February 25, 2021 are as follows:
														
Name		Age		Position
Kurt Sievers		51		Executive Director, President and chief executive officer
Sir Peter Bonfield		76		Non-Executive Director and Chairman and Member of the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee and of the Board’s Compensation Committee
Kenneth A. Goldman		71		Non-Executive Director and Member of the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee
Josef Kaeser		63		Non-Executive Director and Member of the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee
Lena Olving		64		Non-Executive Director and Member of the Board’s Compensation Committee
Peter Smitham		78		Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Board’s Compensation Committee
Julie Southern		61		Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board’s Audit Committee
Jasmin Staiblin		50		Non-Executive Director and Member of the Board’s Audit Committee
Gregory L. Summe		64		Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board’s Nominating and Governance Committee
Karl-Henrik Sundström		60		Non-Executive Director and Member of the Board’s Audit Committee and the Board’s Compensation Committee

There are no family relationships among our directors or between any director and any of our executive officers.

•Kurt Sievers (1969, German). Mr. Sievers is executive director, president and chief executive officer since May 2020, after a successful track record as the president of NXP, overseeing all the company’s business lines, since 2018. Mr. Sievers joined NXP in 1995, and rapidly moved through a series of Marketing & Sales, Product Definition & Development, Strategy and General Management leadership positions across a broad number of market segments. He has been a member of the executive management team since 2009, where he has been instrumental in the definition and implementation of the NXP High-Performance Mixed Signal strategy. In 2015, Mr. Sievers was influential in the merger of NXP and Freescale Semiconductor. Mr. Sievers serves on the Board of the German National Electrical and Electronics Industry Association (ZVEI) and chairs the Advisory Board of the international trade-fair Electronica. He also serves as a board member of AENEAS, the cluster for application and technology research in Europe on nano-electronics. Mr. Sievers serves as a member of the Asia-Pacific-Committee of German Business (APA) and as a member of the Board at the German Asia-Pacific Business Association (OAV), acting as the spokesperson for the Republic of Korea. Mr. Sievers earned a master’s degree in physics and information technology from Augsburg University, Germany.
•Sir Peter Bonfield CBE FREng (1944, British). Sir Peter was appointed a non-executive director and the chairman of our board of directors in August 2010. Prior to that, Sir Peter was the chairman of the supervisory board of NXP B.V. from September 29, 2006. Sir Peter served as chief executive officer and chairman of the executive committee for British Telecom plc from 1996 to 2002 and prior to that was chairman and chief executive officer of ICL plc (now Fujitsu Services Holdings Ltd.). Sir Peter also worked in the semiconductor industry during his tenure as a divisional director at Texas Instruments Incorporated, for whom he held a variety of senior management positions around the world. In addition, Sir Peter has served as a director of twelve large technology companies. Sir Peter currently holds non-executive directorships at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Imagination Technologies, is Chair of Council and Senior Pro-Chancellor at Loughborough University, Board Director at East West Institute USA and Board Mentor at CMi in London. He is Advisor to Longreach LLP in Hong Kong, Alix Partners UK LLP in London and is a Fellow of The Royal Academy of Engineering. Sir Peter is named Outstanding Director for 2019 by the Financial Times.
•Kenneth A. Goldman (1949, American). Mr. Goldman was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective August 6, 2010. Mr. Goldman is former chief financial officer of Yahoo!, Inc. Prior to October 2012, Mr. Goldman served as senior vice president, finance and administration, and chief financial officer of Fortinet, Inc, a provider of unified threat management solutions, from September 2007 to September 2012. From November 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Goldman served as
12

executive vice president and chief financial officer of Dexterra, Inc. From August 2000 until March 2006, Mr. Goldman served as senior vice president, finance and administration, and chief financial officer of Siebel Systems, Inc., and from December 1999 to December 2003, Mr. Goldman served on the Financial Accounting Standards Board’s primary advisory group. Mr. Goldman currently serves on the board of directors of GoPro, Inc., RingCentral, Inc., Zuora, Inc., Fortinet, Inc. and several private companies, including serving as President of Hillspire, LLC. Mr. Goldman also is a member of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Foundation, and in 2015 was appointed to a three-year term on the Standards Advisory Group which advises the PCAOB. Mr. Goldman was a member of board of trustees of Cornell University from 2005 to 2013 and was designated as Emeritus Trustee. He was formerly a member of the Treasury Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession, a public committee that made recommendations in September 2008 to encourage a more sustainable auditing profession. Mr. Goldman holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School.
•Josef Kaeser (1957, German). Mr. Kaeser was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective September 1, 2010. Mr. Kaeser was the president and chief executive officer of Siemens AG from August 2013 until February 2021. Prior to this, from May 2006 to August 2013, he was member of the managing board and chief financial officer of Siemens AG. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Kaeser served as chief strategy officer for Siemens AG and as the chief financial officer for the mobile communications group from 2001 to 2004. Mr. Kaeser additionally held various other positions within the Siemens group since he joined Siemens in 1980. Mr. Kaeser serves on the managing board of Daimler AG.
•Lena Olving (1956, Swedish). Mrs. Olving was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors in June 2019. She served as President and CEO of Mycronic AB (listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm), between 2013 and 2019 a Swedish high-tech equipment company serving the electronics industry. Before that Ms. Olving worked at Saab AB, a listed Defence and Security company, as Deputy CEO and Chief Operating Officer. Her earlier career also includes various managerial positions within Volvo Car Corporation, in total 25 years, of which 5 years in Asia Pacific and 7 years in the Executive Management Team. Ms. Olving is a board member of Assa Abloy AB, Investment AB Latour, Munters Group AB (all public listed), Chairman of Academic Work Holding AB, Chairman of the Board at the Royal Swedish Opera and ScandiNova Systems AB and board member of Stena Metall AB. She is elected as a fellow of IVA the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. She holds a Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering from Chalmers in Gothenburg, Sweden. In January 2018, Ms. Olving was presented H.M. The King’s Medal of the 12th size with blue ribbon for outstanding efforts within Swedish business sector. In October 2019, she was awarded IVA’s Gold Medal for pioneering and outstanding leadership within the tech sector.
•Peter Smitham (1942, British). Mr. Smitham was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective December 7, 2015. Mr. Smitham retired from his position as a partner of the private equity firm Permira on December 31, 2009, but until August 1, 2015, he was a member of Permira Advisers LLP, which he joined in 1985, the year the London office was founded. Mr. Smitham was the managing partner of the London office from 1994 until 1998 and led Permira’s European business from 1996 until 2000. He has worked on numerous transactions focusing on technology, including Memec Group Holdings Limited, The Roxboro Group, Solartron Group and Technology plc. Until its merger with NXP, Mr. Smitham was a director of Freescale. He joined the Freescale board in June 2007 and was a member of the Compensation and Leadership Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Freescale board. He has a degree in Geography from Swansea University, Wales, and attended the Senior Executive Program at Stanford Business School.
•Julie Southern (1959, British). Mrs. Southern was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors in October 2013. She was with Virgin Atlantic Limited (UK) from 2000 to May 2013. From 2010 to 2013 Ms. Southern was chief commercial officer and from 2000 to 2010 she was chief financial officer of Virgin Atlantic. Prior to joining Virgin Atlantic, she was group finance director at Porsche Cars Great Britain and finance and operations director at W H Smith—H J Chapman & Co Ltd. Prior to that, she was a chartered accountant at Price Waterhouse Coopers. Ms. Southern currently holds non-executive directorships at Rentokil-Initial plc, Ocado Group plc and easyJet plc, and is Chair of the respective Audit Committees. Ms. Southern is also a member of the Remuneration Committees at Ocado and easyJet.
•Jasmin Staiblin (1970, German). Mrs. Staiblin was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors in June 2019. She served between 2013 and 2018 as Chief Executive Officer of Alpiq, a
13

leading Swiss energy services provider and power producer in Europe. She successfully led the company through a major transformation in a fundamentally changing energy market. She began her career in 1997 at the ABB Group, the Swedish-Swiss global technology company, starting in ABB’s group research center. From 1999 to 2005 she served in various global functions and as a member of the management team for ABB’s power technologies division. She held the position of chief executive officer of ABB Switzerland from 2006 to 2012. Ms. Staiblin is a board member of Georg Fischer AG, Schaffhausen, Rolls-Royce plc, London and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd. Ms. Staiblin studied Physics and Electrical Engineering at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany and the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden. She completed her studies with a Degree in Physics and has a Master of Science in electrical engineering.
•Gregory L. Summe (1956, American). Mr. Summe was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective December 7, 2015. Mr. Summe is the Co-Chairman of NextGen Acquisition Corporation and the Managing Partner of Glen Capital Partners, an investment fund. Mr. Summe was the managing director and vice chairman of Global Buyout at The Carlyle Group, a leading global private equity firm, from 2009 to 2014. Prior to joining Carlyle, he was the chairman and chief executive officer of PerkinElmer, Inc., a global leader in Health Sciences, a company he led from 1998 to May 2009. He also served as a senior advisor to Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, from 2008 to 2009. He was a director of Freescale Semiconductor from 2010 until its merger with NXP in 2015 and served as Chairman of the Freescale board from 2014-2015. Prior to PerkinElmer, Mr. Summe was with AlliedSignal, now Honeywell International, serving as the president of General Aviation Avionics, president of the Aerospace Engines Group and president of the Automotive Products Group. Before joining AlliedSignal, he was the general manager of Commercial Motors at General Electric and was a partner with the consulting firm of McKinsey & Company, Inc. Mr. Summe holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Kentucky and the University of Cincinnati, and an M.B.A. with distinction from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He is in the Engineering Hall of Distinction at the University of Kentucky. Mr. Summe also serves on the board of directors of the State Street Corporation, Avantor Corporation and NextGen Acquisition Corporation and two private companies, Ohana Biosciences, and Pella Corporation.
•Karl-Henrik Sundström (1960, Swedish). Mr. Sundström was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors in June 2019. He served as CEO of Stora Enso from 2014 until his retirement in 2019. He joined Stora Enso in August 2012 as CFO and member of the Group Leadership Team. In June 2013 he took on the role as Executive Vice President for division Paper and Wood Products. Prior to joining Stora Enso, Mr. Sundström held the role as CFO of NXP Semiconductors N.V. (2008–2012). Before that, he held several managerial positions in Ericsson, including CFO. He is member of the board of Vestas AS, Mölnlycke AB and chairman of the tax delegation for Swedish Business and Commerce and member of the board of the Marcus Wallenberg Foundation, Baffin Bay Networks AB and Tracklib Holdings AB. Mr. Sundström participated in an Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School in 1997 and holds a degree in Business Administration, Finance and Accounting from the Uppsala University, Sweden.

Information about our Executive Officers
The names, ages and positions as of February 25, 2021, of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, Mr. Sievers, are as follows:
														
Name		Age		Position
Kurt Sievers		51		Executive Director, President and chief executive officer
Peter Kelly		64		Executive vice president and chief financial officer
Christopher Jensen		51		Executive vice president and chief human resources officer
Stephen Owen		60		Executive vice president sales & marketing
David Reed		62		Executive vice president technology and operations
Jennifer Wuamett		55		Executive vice president and general counsel

There are no family relationships among our executive officers or between any executive officer and any of our directors.

14

•Peter Kelly (1957, American). Mr. Kelly is executive vice president, chief financial officer and a member of the management team. He joined NXP in March, 2011 and serves as NXP’s chief financial officer. Mr. Kelly has over 30 years of applicable experience in the global technology industry and has extensive financial expertise having worked in financial management positions in several other companies, including as CFO of UGI Corp. and Agere Systems Inc. Mr. Kelly also serves on the board of Plexus, Corp and is on the Audit Committee and Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee.
•Christopher Jensen (1969, American). Mr. Jensen is executive vice president, chief human resources officer and a member of the management team. In this role, he is responsible for all aspects of the company’s global human resources function, driving programs and process to enable NXP’s business performance. Mr. Jensen has been with NXP since the merger of Freescale and NXP in 2015, having been a key leader in the integration of the two companies. He has extensive experience in leading the various functions across human resources, with strength in change management, compensation and benefits design, and mergers and acquisitions. Prior to Freescale, Mr. Jensen held executive human resources positions at Applied Materials and Tandem Computers. Mr. Jensen also serves as a part-time adjunct professor at Baylor University, teaching in their Executive MBA Program.
•Stephen Owen (1960, Dutch). Mr. Owen is executive vice president, global sales & marketing and member of the management team. He has extensive experience in developing business internationally and served in various marketing and sales leadership positions at NXP and Philips since 1998.
•David Reed (1958, American). Mr. Reed is executive vice president of Technology and Operations at NXP. He joined NXP in 2015, having served as general manager at Freescale until the merger with NXP. He has 30 years of extensive international experience with global execution of fabs, assembly/test, packaging, R&D, foundries and joint ventures for Analog, Automotive, Logic and Wireless customers. He joined Freescale Semiconductor in 2012 as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Operations. Previously he was vice president and general manager at GLOBALFOUNDRIES. He began his career at Texas Instruments in 1984 where he held multiple overseas and leadership assignments.
•Jennifer Wuamett (1965, American). Ms. Wuamett is executive vice president, general counsel, secretary of our board of directors and member of the management team, and has served in this role since September 2018. Previously, Ms. Wuamett served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel at NXP. Prior to that, she was Freescale’s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and has served in various positions at Freescale and Motorola since 1997.

Human Capital
At NXP, our diverse and talented employees drive the innovation that sets our company apart and fuels our success in the market. Our foundation is built on our customer-focused passion to win, core values and commitment to innovation, personal accountability, trust, transparency and collaboration.
Across the globe, we have policies and programs to find and maintain the best talent possible. We focus on building thought leadership, providing talent development opportunities, rewarding individual and collective performance, ensuring health, safety and human rights, and investing in future talent. We monitor our talent pool, assess turnover trends closely and gather and analyze employee feedback, and are committed to encouraging and supporting a diverse workforce.
The nature of the NXP workforce includes direct labor (DL) and indirect labor (IDL). DL are those employees who are directly involved in the manufacture of our products, while IDL consists of individual contributors, managers and executives in other functions such as Research & Development (R&D) and selling, general and administrative (SG&A). At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 29,000 employees, which includes approximately 1,500 employees in our joint venture. Our NXP global workforce spans three regions encompassing +30 countries and includes approximately 8,800 employees dedicated to research and development of our products and solutions.
15

nxpi-20201231_g1.jpg
We monitor voluntary attrition closely as a key indicator of employee engagement. This attrition is also compared to industry norms to ensure we are effectively retaining our employees throughout the world. During calendar 2020, our voluntary attrition rate was 5% for IDL and 10% for our DL population. While attrition rates vary by region, in 2020 we are trending below the benchmark using third party survey sources.

nxpi-20201231_g2.jpg
Diversity, Equality and Inclusion
At NXP, we embrace an inclusive culture, comprised of talented individuals from diverse backgrounds. Our global workforce values diversity, equality and inclusion by respecting unique experiences, backgrounds, cultures and ideas regardless of race, gender, sexual orientation, nationality and social or economic background.
The center of our diversity, equality and inclusion strategy is to give employees a voice and to engage them to help drive our focus in this important space. NXP is contributing more resources to increase its focus on driving cultural intelligence globally, which is being spearheaded by NXP’s Head of Diversity, Equality and Inclusion.
NXP Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are enablers to our culture and inclusive work environment, as we work to ensure diversity of thought throughout our company and bring unique perspectives and skills to help those in our communities. Today, we have six primary ERGs, with representation in Asia, Europe and the United States. Membership and participation in ERGs is open to all employee and global engagement is encouraged.
At NXP, women represent 36% of our global workforce and we continue to make and aim for improvements in hiring across all global sites. We are committed to developing and promoting more women into technical and leadership positions. In addition, we are committed to increasing the number of women within our R&D organization. We monitor gender statistics on a global basis and look for ways to continuously improve the results.
16

																	
	Executive	Manager	Individual Contributor - IDL	Individual Contributor - DL	Grand Total
Female	13%	16%	24%	58%	36%
Male	87%	84%	76%	42%	64%

While we present male and female, we acknowledge this is not fully encompassing of all gender identities.

Corporate Values and Employee Engagement
NXP’s values are the foundation of what makes us an extraordinary company. Engaging, developing and valuing employees is how we create long-term value for our stakeholders. Our values guide our decision-making process and speak to how we operate, our inherent beliefs and how we engage and respect each employee’s contribution and push the boundaries of creativity and innovation. We use these values specifically in our performance evaluation process to hold ourselves accountable that these words align to our actions.

nxpi-20201231_g3.gif

To assess and improve the engagement of our employees, NXP conducts an annual global employee survey called the Winning Culture Survey.

Talent Development
NXP has a commitment to ongoing learning, including mechanisms for learning from others, formal training opportunities and a variety of on-the-job development experiences. Using a blend of internally designed and externally sourced courses and learning resources, we bring learning to our employees real-time in support of key business processes, requirements & initiatives. We also provide a library of on-demand skills development and microlearning resources to all of our employees.
We work to create developmental opportunities for our associates through stretch assignments, project roles, cross-functional interactions, cross-geography engagements, and both temporary and longer-term job rotations – all of which are used to stimulate core skill and leadership competency development, to provide on-the-job learning experience, and to fuel employee career growth.

Compensation and Benefits
We provide total rewards packages which include market competitive base pay, as well as opportunities to earn bonuses and stock awards. In addition, in an effort to meet the specific needs of our employees and their families, we offer benefits programs, which vary by country/region, and include an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, retirement programs, healthcare and insurance benefits, allowances, paid time off, family leaves, flexible work schedules, and other employee assistance programs.
NXP’s compensation programs are designed to attract the best talent and drive performance across all areas of our diverse workforce. We don’t believe rewarding high performance is enough, equally important is our investment in our employees’ future. NXP’s compensation practices empower leaders to recognize both individual and team accomplishments through a variety of programs offered. Rewards decisions are linked to the annual performance evaluation process which includes an assessment of both the corporate values demonstrated and the delivery of specific goals.
NXP is committed to managing all reward-based compensation programs, including merit increases, annual incentive program payouts and long-term incentive awards, to deliver our strong pay-for-performance philosophy.
17

Employee Health and Safety
Through our focus on our well-established safety program and related initiatives, we are committed to the safety of our employees and we continuously assess safety risk globally to ensure workplace risks are mitigated.
With the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic that we faced in 2020, the health and safety of our employees became even more important than ever before. In response to local requirements and in an effort to keep employees safe, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, including successfully transitioning a majority of our non-essential workers to safely work from home at the peak of the pandemic. The essential employees, who remained working on-site, were provided additional personal protective equipment and the utmost attention was given to implementing site entry and office protocols and procedures to keep employees safe.

Employee Representation
A number of our employees are members of a labor union and in various countries, local law requires us to inform and consult with employee representatives on matters relating to labor conditions. We have not experienced any material strikes or labor disputes in the past and consider our employee relations to be good.
We also have employee lead worker’s councils in various countries that provide input and oversight to many of the decisions made on behalf of employees.

Available Information
Our main corporate website address is www.nxp.com. Copies of our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), are available free of charge on our website within the "Investors Relations" section as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The information contained on these websites as referenced is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, the Company’s references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only.
