Omnicom is a strategic holding company providing advertising, marketing and corporate communications services to clients through our branded networks and agencies around the world. We operate in a highly competitive industry and compete against other global, national and regional advertising and marketing services companies, as well as technology, social media and professional services companies. The proliferation of media channels, including the rapid development and integration of interactive technologies and media, has fragmented consumer audiences targeted by our clients. These developments make it more complex for marketers to reach their target audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to global service providers such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing services designed to optimize their total marketing expenditure. As discussed below, in 2020 the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our business.
On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our networks and agencies provide a comprehensive range of services in the following fundamental disciplines: advertising, customer relationship management, or CRM, which includes CRM Consumer Experience and CRM Execution & Support, public relations and healthcare. Advertising includes creative services, as well as strategic media planning and buying and data analytics services. CRM Consumer Experience includes Omnicom’s Precision Marketing Group and digital/direct agencies, as well as our branding, shopper marketing and experiential marketing agencies. CRM Execution & Support includes field marketing, sales support, merchandising and point of sale, as well as other specialized marketing and custom communications services. Public relations services include corporate communications, crisis management, public affairs and media and media relations services. Healthcare includes advertising and media services to global healthcare clients. Our business model was built and continues to evolve around our clients. Our fundamental business principle is that our clients’ specific marketing requirements are the central focus of how we structure our service offerings and allocate our resources. This client-centric business model requires that multiple agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual client networks utilizing our key client matrix organization structure. This collaboration allows us to cut across our internal organizational structures to execute our clients’ marketing requirements in a consistent and comprehensive manner. We use our client-centric approach to grow our business by expanding our service offerings to existing clients, moving into new markets and obtaining new clients. In addition to collaborating through our client service models, our agencies and networks collaborate across internally developed technology platforms. Annalect, our proprietary data and analytics platform, serves as the strategic resource for all of our agencies and networks to share when developing client service strategies across our virtual networks. Omni, our people-based precision marketing and insights platform, identifies and defines personalized consumer experiences at scale across creative, media and CRM, as well as other disciplines.
Driven by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient marketing activities, we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to meet specific client objectives. Our service offerings include:
								
advertising		investor relations
branding		marketing research
content marketing		media planning and buying
corporate social responsibility consulting		merchandising and point of sale
crisis communications		mobile marketing
custom publishing		multi-cultural marketing
data analytics		non-profit marketing
database management		organizational communications
digital/direct marketing		package design
digital transformation		product placement
entertainment marketing		promotional marketing
experiential marketing		public affairs
field marketing		public relations
financial/corporate business-to-business advertising		retail marketing

1

								
graphic arts/digital imaging		sales support
healthcare marketing and communications		search engine marketing
instore design		shopper marketing
interactive marketing		social media marketing
		sports and event marketing
Certain business trends had positively impacted our business and industry. These trends include clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to pan-regional and global markets and integrating traditional and non-traditional marketing channels, as well as utilizing new communications technologies and emerging digital platforms. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency, they continue to consolidate their business within one or a small number of service providers in the pursuit of a single engagement covering all consumer touch points. We have structured our business around these trends. We believe that our key client matrix organization structure approach to collaboration and integration of our services and solutions provides a competitive advantage to our business in the past and we expect this to continue over the medium and long term. Our key client matrix organization structure facilitates superior client management and allows for greater integration of the services required by the world’s largest brands. Our overarching strategy is to continue to use our virtual client networks to grow our business relationships with our largest clients by serving them across our networks, disciplines and geographies.
In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our business and results of operations. Efforts to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, including government actions to restrict travel, limit public gatherings, shelter-in-place orders and mandatory closures of businesses, resulted in many of our clients reducing or suspending their spending for our advertising, marketing and corporate communication services. As a result, for the year ended December 31, 2020, revenue decreased 11.9%, compared to 2019, primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We anticipate that the negative impact from the pandemic on our revenue will continue through the first quarter of 2021 as compared to the prior year period. However, we expect organic revenue growth for the first half of 2021. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our revenue has been, and may continue to be, material, depending on several factors, including the potential for prolonged or additional governmental actions to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. It is possible that the COVID-19 pandemic will accelerate certain trends that began pre-pandemic, particularly those relating to online commerce, brand building and how we deploy our personnel. We expect that some of these trends will benefit our agencies and provide revenue growth opportunities, as well as increasing flexibility with respect to our use of physical locations and our cost structure, but some trends may negatively affect us including potential disruption by new participants and technologies (see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” or MD&A, of this report).
We continually evaluate our portfolio of businesses to identify areas for investment and acquisition opportunities, as well as to identify non-strategic or underperforming businesses for disposition. For information about our acquisitions and dispositions, see MD&A - Acquisitions and Goodwill and Notes 5 and 13, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements. None of our acquisitions or dispositions, individually or in the aggregate, was material to our results of operations or financial position in the three years ended December 31, 2020.
The various components of our business, including revenue by discipline and geographic area, and material factors that affected us in 2020 are discussed in the MD&A.
Our Clients
Our clients operate in virtually every sector of the global economy. In many cases, multiple agencies or networks serve different brands, product groups or both within the same client. For example, in 2020 our largest client represented 3.4% of revenue and was served by more than 110 of our agencies. Our 100 largest clients, many of which represent the largest global marketers, represented approximately 54% of revenue and were each served, on average, by more than 50 of our agencies.
Government Regulations
We are subject to various local, state and federal laws and regulations in the countries in which we conduct business. Compliance with these laws and regulations in the normal course of business did not have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Additional information regarding the impact of government regulations on our business is included in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the heading Regulatory Risks.
Human Capital Resources
Our employees are our most important assets. We believe a critical component to our success depends on the ability to attract, develop and retain key personnel. The skill sets of our workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is the ability to understand a client’s brand or product and its selling proposition and to develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand or product to the client’s target audience, whether through traditional channels or emerging digital platforms. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we support and develop our employees through training and development programs that build and strengthen employees’ leadership and professional skills.

2

Human capital management strategies are developed collectively by senior management, including the management teams of the Company’s networks and practice areas, and are overseen by the Company’s Board of Directors. We are committed to efforts that ensure that the workplace is equitable, ethical, fosters an inclusive work environment across our global workforce and respects human rights. Our human capital management priorities include, among other things, providing competitive wages and benefits, succession planning, promoting diversity and inclusion and adopting codes of conduct and business ethics to be implemented throughout the Company.
At December 31, 2020, we employed approximately 64,100 people worldwide. The United States, our largest employee base, employed about 20,800 people. None of our regular employees in the United States is represented by a labor union. The approximate number of employees in our principal geographic regions were 27,100 in the Americas, 25,800 in Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and 11,200 in Asia Pacific. Certain employees in a few countries outside of the United States, primarily in Europe, are represented by work councils. See the MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs on our results of operations.
Information About Our Executive Officers
At February 11, 2021, our executive officers were:
								
Name	Position	Age
John D. Wren	Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer	68
Philip J. Angelastro	Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	56
Michael J. O’Brien	Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary	59
Andrew L. Castellaneta	Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer	62
Peter L. Swiecicki	Senior Vice President, Finance and Controller	62
Rochelle M. Tarlowe	Senior Vice President and Treasurer	50
Jonathan B. Nelson	CEO, Omnicom Digital	53
Each executive officer has held their present position for at least five years, except Mr. Wren was named Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in May 2018 and previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer from 1997 to May 2018; and Ms. Tarlowe was named Senior Vice President and Treasurer in May 2019 and previously served as Senior Vice President and Treasurer of Avis Budget Group from 2007 until April 2019. Additional information about our directors and executive officers will appear in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, by March 25, 2021.
Available Information
We file annual, quarterly and current reports and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Documents we file with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at http://investor.omnicomgroup.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with the SEC. The information included on or available through our website is not part of this or any other report we file with the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC is available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.
