Overview

We are a leading provider of a comprehensive, cloud-based human capital management (“HCM”) solution delivered as Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”). We provide functionality and data analytics that businesses need to manage the complete employment lifecycle, from recruitment to retirement. Our solution requires virtually no customization and is based on a core system of record maintained in a single database for all HCM functions, including talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and human resources (“HR”) management applications. Our user-friendly software allows for easy adoption of our solution by employees, enabling self-management of their HCM activities in the cloud, which reduces the administrative burden on employers and increases employee productivity.

We were founded in 1998 and became a publicly traded company through our initial public offering in 2014. Since our founding, we have focused on providing an innovative SaaS HCM solution. Organizations need sophisticated, flexible and intuitive applications that can quickly adapt to their evolving HCM requirements, streamline their HR processes and systems and enable them to control costs. We believe the HCM needs of most organizations are currently served either by multiple providers in an attempt to replicate a comprehensive SaaS product or, to a lesser extent, by legacy providers offering outdated on-premise products. These approaches often result in challenges with system integration and data integrity, low scalability, high costs, extended delivery times and large up-front capital requirements.

Because our solution was developed in-house and is based on a single platform, there is no need to integrate, update or access multiple databases, which are common issues with competitor offerings that use multiple third-party systems in order to link together their HCM offerings. Additionally, our solution maintains data integrity for accurate, actionable and real-time analytics and business intelligence and helps clients minimize the risks of compliance errors due to inaccurate or missing information. We deliver feature-rich applications while maintaining excellence in information security and quality management standards, as evidenced by our International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) certifications.

We sell our solution directly through our internally trained, client-focused and highly skilled sales force based in offices across the United States. As a part of our client retention effort, a specialist within a dedicated team is assigned to each client to provide industry-leading, personalized service. We have approximately 31,000 clients, none of which constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. We believe that as a result of our focus on client experience, we enjoy high client satisfaction as evidenced by an annual revenue retention rate of 93%, 93% and 92% from existing clients for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We believe our revenue retention rate understates our client loyalty because this rate is decreased by former clients that were acquired or otherwise ceased operations.

We currently derive the majority of our revenues from payroll processing. We are able to determine revenues from payroll processing because all of our clients are required to utilize our payroll application in order to access our other applications. We generally do not separately track our revenues across our other applications because we often sell applications in various groupings and configurations for a single price.

The Paycom Solution

We offer an end-to-end SaaS HCM solution that provides our clients and their employees with immediate access to accurate and secure information and analytics at any time from any location where internet service is available. We believe our solution delivers the following benefits:

Comprehensive HCM Solution

Our solution offers functionality that manages the entire employment lifecycle for employers and employees, from recruitment to retirement. Our user-friendly applications streamline client processes and provide clients and their employees with the ability to directly access and manage administrative processes, including applications that identify candidates, on-board employees, manage time and labor, administer payroll deductions and benefits, manage performance, terminate employees and administer post-termination health benefits such as COBRA. The widespread employee usage of our applications further integrates our solution into the administrative processes of our clients. Our solution also has the advantage of being built in-house by our highly trained and skilled team of software developers, thereby minimizing data integrity issues across applications.

Core System of Record

Our solution is based on a core system of record that contains payroll and HR information in one convenient database, thereby reducing costs and eliminating the need for multiple software products and vendors and the maintenance of employee data in numerous databases. This core system of record enables our clients to input employee data one time and enjoy seamless functionality across our applications. When a revision is made to the file of an employee, all appropriate personnel have access to the change in real time. In addition, our core system of record helps clients minimize the risk of compliance errors due to inaccurate or missing

4

 

 

 

information that results from maintaining multiple databases. Through accurate tracking and management of employee payroll and other HR data, such information can be compiled for comprehensive and consistent reporting for our clients.

Data Analytics and Business Intelligence

Our solution’s core system of record allows clients to strategically analyze comprehensive and accurate employee information to make informed business decisions based upon actionable, real-time analytics provided through our client dashboard. This functionality allows our clients to operate with a more complete and accurate picture of their organization, as our solution’s embedded analytics capture the content and context of everyday business events, facilitating fast and informed decision-making from any location. Our industry first employee usage management analytics tool, Direct Data Exchange™ (DDX™), provides employers insights into efficiencies gained through employee usage of HR technology and generates a real-time estimate of the savings realized from that usage. We help clients reduce administrative and operational costs and better manage talent.

Enhanced Employee Experience

The employees of our clients also benefit from our HCM applications. As workforces transition from technology–savvy to technology-dependent, employees expect mobile technology and the resources necessary to readily access information and control their professional development. Through our employee self-service technology, employees can view real-time HR information, including pay stubs, W-2s and benefits information, as well as manage their schedules and vacation time and update W-4 contact information. Our mobile app makes it easier for employees to access their self-service information. Our app has fingerprint and facial recognition capabilities, aiding employers in their efforts to engage technology-dependent workers. Our system also allows employers to engage their workforce through learning management courses and training paths, surveys, and performance goals and reviews.

To further enhance the effectiveness of management throughout our clients’ organizations, we also offer easy to use software with Manager on-the-Go™. Built within our mobile app, this tool allows for 24/7 accessibility to essential manager-side functionality, giving supervisors and managers the ability to perform a variety of tasks, such as approving time-off requests and expense reimbursements – anytime, anywhere.

In addition to our self-service, app-based functionality, we also provide our clients with a strategy to drive usage among their employees. This strategy includes training clients’ employees how to use the Paycom app during implementation and providing additional training from our client relations representatives. Allowing employees to make changes directly to our database creates efficiencies for both the employer and employee. Today’s employees have little tolerance for complexity, and with our solution, employees have become accustomed to having a direct relationship with their HR database. This relationship is directly correlated with our single-database that is key to increasing usage. Our strategy to promote employee usage of the Paycom system elevates HR personnel to focus on the human element of their jobs, creating a more positive culture and giving HR personnel more time to engage with their employees.

Personalized Support Provided by Trained Personnel

Our applications are supported by one-on-one personal assistance from trained specialists. Service specialists are assigned to specific clients and are trained across all of our applications, ensuring they provide comprehensive, expert-level service. Our client service is ISO 9001:2015 certified on the basis of its quality and consistency. We strive to provide our clients with high levels of service and support to ensure their continued use of our solution for all of their HCM needs.

Software-as-a-Service Delivery Model

Our SaaS delivery model allows clients with geographically dispersed and mobile workforces to operate more efficiently, and allows these clients to implement, access and use our client-oriented internet solution on demand and remotely through standard web browsers, smart phones, tablets and other web-enabled devices. Our SaaS solution reduces the time, risk, headcount and costs associated with installing and maintaining applications for on-premise products within the information technology (“IT”) infrastructure of our clients.

Secure Cloud-Based Architecture

Our cloud-based architecture allows our solution to be implemented remotely with minimal client interaction. Updates such as software enhancements and newly developed applications can be deployed without client interaction, disruption or involvement, allowing our clients to make a smaller investment in hardware, personnel, implementation time and consulting. Additionally, we own and maintain all of the infrastructure technology to host our solution and to maximize system availability for clients. Our focus on, and investment in, technology and data security has been recognized with ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certified security standards that provide our clients with a “best-in-class” level of data security.

5

 

 

 

Scalability to Grow with our Clients

Our solution is highly scalable. We serve a diversified client base ranging in size from one employee to many thousands of employees, while our target client size range is 50 to 5,000 employees. We calculate the number of clients’ employees based on parent company grouping. Our clients are able to use the same solution while their businesses grow by deploying applications as-needed in real-time. Pricing is determined based on employee headcount and the number of applications utilized, enabling our clients to align HCM spending with their evolving HCM needs as compared to traditional HCM products that require clients to migrate to new software as they grow but retain fixed costs even if the client shrinks in size.

Efficient and Productive Research and Development

We believe we benefit from a competitive advantage with our research and development investments, people and processes. Early investments in our proprietary, cloud-based architecture enable us to develop and deploy applications in a timely and cost-effective manner. We have also chosen to base our research and development team in Oklahoma and Texas, which we believe provides us with high-quality talent at a lower cost compared to other locations in the United States where there is more competition for technology talent. These strategic decisions have enabled us to have a highly productive research and development function.

Our Strategy for Growth

Our strategy is to continue to establish our solution as the HCM industry standard by increasing our presence in existing markets and expanding into additional markets. We intend to continue to increase our domestic sales capacity as well as potentially expand over the longer term into international markets. We will also execute our strategy for growth by targeting larger clients, expanding our inside sales organization and strengthening and extending our solution.

Increase Our Presence in Existing Markets

We believe a significant market opportunity exists to increase our presence within markets where we currently have a sales office. Each sales office is typically staffed with one sales team, with each team comprised of a sales manager and approximately six to eight other sales professionals. Although we have a sales office in 38 of the 50 largest metropolitan statistical areas (“MSAs”) in the United States based on July 2019 U.S. Census Bureau estimates, only five of these MSAs are currently served by multiple Paycom sales teams. We plan to further penetrate and more effectively capture existing markets by adding sales offices, leveraging virtual sales meetings, and increasing the number of sales teams in such markets.

Expand Into Additional Markets

We plan to continue expanding our sales capability by opening sales offices and leveraging virtual sales meetings in certain metropolitan areas where we currently have no sales teams. We have historically selected new locations based on potential client and employee demographics as well as business density. When opening a new sales office, we typically relocate a proven sales manager from an existing territory who then recruits a team of high-performing sales representatives. It typically takes a new sales office 24 months to reach maturity.

Enlarge our Existing Client Relationships

We dedicate our resources to helping our clients facilitate their goals, whether through helping our clients execute better hiring decisions, manage compensation more effectively or simply operate more efficiently. We believe a significant growth opportunity exists in selling additional applications to our current clients. Many clients have subsequently deployed additional applications as they recognize the benefits of our comprehensive solution. As we extend and enhance the functionality of our solution, we will continue to invest in initiatives to increase the adoption of our solution and maintain our high levels of client satisfaction.

Target Larger Clients and Capture Incremental Small Business Demand

The average size of our clients has grown significantly as we have organically grown our operations and increased the number of applications we offer. We believe larger employers represent a substantial opportunity to increase the number of clients and to increase our revenues per client, with limited incremental cost to us. To further capitalize on this opportunity, we intend to continue targeting larger businesses opportunistically where our current sales model is effective.

We also receive inbound leads from businesses below our target client size range, who can be onboarded through our inside sales organization. We intend to continue to expand our inside sales capabilities to opportunistically capture inbound demand for our solution.

Maintain Our Leadership in Innovation by Strengthening and Extending our Solution

Our ability to develop and deploy new applications and updates rapidly and cost-effectively has been integral to the results that we have achieved to date. We intend to continue extending the functionality and range of our solution in the future. Our development efforts are performed exclusively in-house and are heavily based upon proactive research and client input. We are focusing our

6

 

 

 

investments on the development of new applications, enhancements and learning courses that are responsive to the needs of our clients, which are garnered through ongoing client interaction and collaboration.

Our Applications and Tools

Our HCM solution offers a full suite of applications and tools that generally fall within the following categories: talent acquisition, time and labor management, payroll, talent management and HR management.

Talent Acquisition

 

	

 
	

Applicant Tracking. Our applicant tracking application simplifies the recruiting processes needed to hire the most qualified employees. By using our all-in-one system, our clients can move candidates from the application process through new employee on-boarding without re-keying data. Organizations can maintain and easily access a list of potential employees from a talent pool with real-time candidate, recruiter and manager retrieval while eliminating manual redundancies. Clients can also distribute job openings and reach a wider candidate audience with tools to reach unlimited postings on a network of free job boards and manage fee-based job board accounts. The application’s enhanced career site analytics reveal which job boards and marketing efforts produce the best return on investment. Our applicant tracking application not only sends candidates automated job alerts to notify them of a client’s newly posted positions, but allows them to provide their availability upfront to discuss potential job opportunities, thereby saving a step for recruiters.

	

 
	

Candidate Tracker. Our candidate tracker application enables recruiters to track and stay connected to potential talent through an online database of top candidates. This application helps clients fill future positions faster and without the cost of professional recruiting firms. This feature allows clients to assemble a contact history searchable by school, degree, skill set, previous employer, ZIP code radius and follow-up date.

	

 
	

Enhanced Background Checks™. Our background check application helps clients easily screen prospective new hires or employees. Employers can choose the specific service or package of services desired for each individual, including verification of education, employment, driving history, criminal history, and drug and health screening, among others. Based on client research and feedback, the efficiencies in our system have produced faster turnaround times by as much as three days over our competitors’ offerings.

 
	

 

	

 
	

On-Boarding. Our on-boarding application streamlines the hiring and termination processes for employees of our clients by creating online checklists of tasks to be assigned to an employee or group of employees. With our application, this process can begin even before a new hire’s first day on the job, helping the new hire be more productive on his or her first day.

	

 
	

 

E-Verify®. By allowing electronic signature verification and online storage, our E-Verify application automates employment verification and reduces our clients’ exposure to audits and penalties that could result from I-9 violations.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Tax Credit Services. Our tax credit services application helps employers process and calculate the available federal tax credits associated with hiring employees who meet various qualifications, ensuring organizations opting into this service receive their share of government-appropriated funds. This application prescreens candidates to determine who is eligible for tax credits.

7

 

 

 

Time and Labor Management

 

	

 
	

Time and Attendance. Our time and attendance application allows our clients to accurately and efficiently manage when, where and how employees report their hours worked. Clients can apply customized rules, use batch editing and use timecard management tools to manage complex time and attendance needs. Employees can clock in and out at their desks with web-based time clocks or by using biometric, badgeswipe or other types of hardware terminals in a single or multi-clock environment. Our web time clock feature allows employees to clock in and out using their mobile device or any device with an internet connection, which automatically updates the payroll application when approved, eliminating the need to manually calculate timesheets and re-key information into payroll systems.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Scheduling/Schedule Exchange. Our scheduling application helps managers with employee scheduling through automated functionality that provides for a seamless workflow with the payroll and time and attendance applications. This application allows clients to create and edit templates for different pay classes. Our schedule exchange application allows employees and managers access to their schedules at any time and employees can approve, decline or swap their schedules and see what shifts are available for pickup. Email notifications are sent automatically to supervisors and employees when schedules are created, requests for shift exchanges are submitted or a shift change is approved or denied.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Time-Off Requests. Our time-off requests application automates and standardizes the time-off request procedure and helps employers remain effectively staffed. Managers can view an online time-off calendar to easily monitor and approve or deny time-off requests. Managers can review paid time off requests via email and approve or deny such requests with ease. Our Employee Self-Service® tool allows employees to view the time-off they have available, submit requests and view blackout dates, the status of requests and any manager comments.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Labor Allocation. Our labor allocation application simplifies the process of setting up and tracking employee hours based on the job the employee is working.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Labor Management Reports/Push Reporting®. Our labor management reports application provides clients with access to up-to-the-minute reports on the information they need to better manage their labor force, such as overtime and labor distribution. Our Push Reporting application also gives clients the ability to set up recurring reports and to schedule them to be run automatically and sent to users on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or yearly basis.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Geofencing/Geotracking. Enhancing our time and attendance solution, Paycom’s geofencing and geotracking location-based technology assist our clients in managing the whereabouts of employees while on the job. Geofencing allows employers to establish geographical boundaries within which their employees are authorized to clock in and out when using our web time clock on smartphones, tablets or other electronic devices. Once enabled, this time-theft-combatting tool supersedes IP address restrictions, meaning the system first checks for authorized geographical locations, rather than authorized IP addresses. In addition, the geotracking tool empowers clients to track employees’ geographical locations upon clocking in and out. The coordinates collected by the application can be entered into and viewed on a Google® display map.

8

 

 

 

Payroll

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Payroll and Tax Management. Our payroll application is the foundation of our solution and all of our clients are required to utilize this application in order to access our other applications. Our payroll application is automatically updated with changes in employee information and offers other time saving functionality such as batch editing and effective dating. Enhanced payroll grid functionality allows clients to automate and delegate payroll functions to accelerate the processes, giving clients repeatable, reliable payroll processing with additional controls. Our payroll application allows clients to customize the services to fit their specific needs. The application can be accessed at any time to make changes, run payroll and generate custom reports. We also help our clients by handling their payroll taxes and deposits, regulatory correspondence and amendments as well as assisting with penalty and interest disputes.

 

	

 
	

Paycom Pay®. Paycom Pay eliminates the tedious, risky job of check reconciliation by issuing checks to our clients’ employees that clear from a Paycom bank account, thereby reducing the number of transactions on a client’s general ledger and simplifying bank statement balancing.

 
	

 
	

	

 
	

Expense Management. Our expense management application eliminates the manual, paper-based processes associated with employee expense reimbursement and allows employers to control and monitor expenses by setting clearly defined rules and parameters for employee reimbursement. Employees can upload or email photos of receipts for reimbursement and expenses are automatically parsed when submitted. Employees can then access an expense dashboard where they can view the status of their submitted expenses through Employee Self-Service. Expenses seamlessly flow through virtual approvals to payroll and our application provides proper allocation of expenses to the general ledger, reducing manual work for accounting personnel. Organizations gain audit-ready reporting, which is critical when a client needs to know the critical attributes of the expense approval process.  

 

	

 
	

Mileage Tracker/FAVR. Our native mobile app includes mileage tracker capability, allowing employers to more accurately track, log and manage employees’ mileage reimbursements that are then automatically updated within our expense management applications. FAVR, which stands for Fixed and Variable Rate, allows our clients to customize their mileage reimbursement rate, according to IRS guidelines, to ensure accurate employee reimbursement for business miles without overpaying on reimbursements.  

 
	

 
	

	

 
	

Garnishment Management. Our garnishment management application mitigates the risk of penalties and lawsuits from employees and agencies, allowing clients to handle communications with garnishment payees and agencies and to calculate and track garnishment payments.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

GL Concierge. Our GL concierge application offers organizations more control and transparency into their payroll general ledger and gives finance professionals intuitive reporting, enriched audit trails, customizable file layouts and real-time alerts. Clients of all sizes can utilize a wide variety of general ledger maps along with an action-item alert system that improves the dynamics of their daily operations. With this simplified process, accounting departments can generate mapped GL reports for direct import into various accounting software packages.

Talent Management

 

	

 
	

Employee Self-Service. Available in English or Spanish, our Employee Self-Service application improves employee engagement by empowering employees to self-manage certain transactions, obtain quick answers to frequent payroll and HR questions, access their pay history, view performance goals and reviews and view total compensation reports that show their compensation and benefits package. Benefits information and paid time-off accruals also give employees the ability to make informed decisions regarding their benefit selections and time-off requests. Employees can access our self-service software through any device with an internet connection or by downloading the Paycom app on the Google Play™ store and the App Store® online store.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Compensation Budgeting. Our compensation budgeting application provides compensation and performance information in one system, providing clients valuable workforce insight to help manage and formulate salary budgets and establish merit-based compensation increases that automatically upload new rates to payroll once the merit increases are set. Having payroll linked with performance reviews is instrumental for compensation budgeting, which rewards employees fairly while staying within budget.

 
	

 
	

 

9

 

 

 

	

 
	

Performance Management. Our performance management application allows employees to set standardized pay grades and performance goals for positions across an organization, helping align company goals with workforce goals. It also helps streamline the performance review process with online facilitation of the review process and

links performance to pay.

 
	

 

	

 
	

My Analytics. The my analytics application offers powerful workforce insight in a variety of report formats. Because we offer an all-in-one solution in a single-database, the comprehensive report data provides the workforce intelligence needed to drive human capital decisions at all levels of management. As part of the my analytics application, we offer employment predictor reporting. This sophisticated machine learning technology gives an employer greater insight into employees at risk of leaving its organization.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Paycom Learning, Course Content and Subscriptions. Our learning management application delivers a smart, simple, data-driven experience that formalizes and standardizes our clients’ training processes, thereby allowing them to quickly adapt in an ever-changing business environment. Our application provides employees with “anytime, anywhere” access to a central knowledge base where they can access content, share expertise and measure their professional development progress, while performance video content creator allows subject-matter experts to share knowledge across the company by empowering them to create, upload and distribute engaging microlearning content quickly and easily. With performance evidence within Paycom learning, our clients can create a lesson tool that allows their employees to demonstrate knowledge and mastery of a specific skill to confirm they are truly grasping the course material. Managers or trainers then can provide direct input about the employee’s performance, creating a true feedback loop that promotes employee development. In addition to providing the ability to create and upload custom content, we created and launched our own proprietary eLearning content. Paycom learning clients have immediate access to a library of Paycom-created learning courses, which allow employers to educate their managers and employees quickly and consistently on foundational topics such as workplace violence, discrimination and harassment prevention. Paycom Content Subscriptions are also available with hundreds of courses in English and Spanish. These courses are tailored to organizations across multiple industries.

HR Management

 

	

 
	

Manager on-the-Go. Our Manager on-the-Go tool gives supervisors and managers the ability to perform a variety of tasks, such as approving time-off requests and expense reimbursements – anytime, anywhere. This feature enhances usage patterns and the interactions within organizations among leaders and employees, while distributing the approval responsibilities more broadly, freeing HR personnel. This tool allows managers and supervisors to, among other things: view their team’s time-off calendar; edit and approve punch-change requests; manage employees’ schedules; and respond to employee inquiries through Ask Here. Manager on-the-Go requires no additional login or user information, providing a seamless toggle between Manager on-the-Go, Employee Self-Service and mileage tracker.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Direct Data Exchange. Our comprehensive management analytics tool gives employers insights into efficiencies gained through employee usage of HR technology and provides a real-time return on investment on that usage (based on findings by EY). Using our Direct Data Exchange (DDX™) tool, employers not only can see the cost savings associated with changes made by employees, but they can also drill down into specific aspects of our software, including time and attendance, benefits, expenses, time-off requests, tax and payroll modifications, to determine exactly where additional savings can be achieved. This feature allows clients to see organizational employee usage trends arranged by their preferred time frame and total logins (filterable by individuals) to Employee Self-Service through any device.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Ask Here. Our Ask Here tool gives all client employees a direct line of communication to ask work-related questions of their company representatives, and receive timely answers, all through the convenience of our self-service technology. Ask Here’s functionality promotes increased engagement by ensuring all inquiries are addressed, any required actions are taken, and no follow-ups are required by the employee. This central repository for employee questions has a convenient dashboard, guided inquiry template, ability to attach documents and photos and auto saved responses for commonly asked questions.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Document and Checklist. Our document and checklist application is designed to manage employee files and allows employees to digitally sign and view company documents. We securely store client records to meet retention requirements and protect documents from unauthorized access and other disasters that can threaten businesses. Aside from expending fewer resources on paper, printing and file storage, our document and checklist application protects sensitive information and documents by customizing user access levels. In addition, clients can assign checklists to employees for the completion of certain tasks associated with processes such as on-boarding and off-boarding.

 
	

 

10

 

 

 

	

 
	

Government and Compliance. Our government and compliance application helps clients reduce exposure to violations, audits and penalties with respect to the employment laws impacting their business, such as the Fair Labor Standards Act, Family Medical Leave Act, Equal Employment Opportunity Act, COBRA and other state and federal regulations. A single-database keeps our clients’ employee data consistent and enhances reporting capabilities by providing better accuracy and real-time insight.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Benefits Administration/Benefits to Carrier. Our benefits administration application allows clients to customize benefit plan setup, deduction amounts, enrollment dates and new-hire waiting periods. Employers are provided census and reconciliation reports to ensure they do not overpay for benefits. Employers can also update deduction amounts for all employees or groups of employees at once and automatically updates all insurance carriers for any changes. This application also provides employees with online enrollment and helps educate them by allowing them to view per-pay-period deduction amounts and preview how these deductions would affect their take-home pay, driving better informed enrollment decisions for greater employee satisfaction. Our benefits to carrier application automatically updates insurance carriers regarding benefit deduction amounts, address changes, termination of benefits and qualifying events.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Benefits Enrollment Services. Our benefits enrollment service provides our clients with a dedicated coordinator to help make open enrollment even easier by developing tailored strategies and setting up plans and features within our benefits software offering. The coordinator helps reconcile enrollment and deductions to prepare the client for a successful first payroll of the new plan year.

 
	

 

	

 
	

COBRA Administration. Our COBRA administration application helps protect employers from COBRA violations and the associated fines and penalties by automatically initiating compliance measures upon entry of qualifying events into the application. In addition to sending required correspondence, this application also tracks important dates, collects and remits premiums and reports on all COBRA activity.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Personnel Action Forms and Performance Discussion Forms. Our personnel action forms (“PAF”) application helps our clients reduce the amount of time and paperwork required to make employee changes, such as pay rate, position and title changes, by allowing managers to complete and approve online personnel action forms, subject to necessary approvals from the HR department. This feature reduces errors, eliminates re-keying of data and automatically populates payroll with an effective date. Performance Discussion Forms, part of our PAF tool, allows clients to manage employee conversations related to a variety of topics, including workplace behavior, development opportunities and paths towards a promotion.

 
	

 

	

 
	

Surveys. Our surveys application allows employers to conduct confidential email surveys of employees on workplace matters, providing employers with candid feedback that otherwise may go undisclosed. From exit interviews and benefits assessments to rate-the-boss questionnaires, this valuable information can be used to drive decisions and realize company goals. Clients can analyze results by the demographics of the workforce and compare how results change over time.

 
	

 
	

 

	

 
	

Enhanced ACA. Our Affordable Care Act (“ACA”) application provides clients with access to a dashboard that tracks employee count, employee status, health care plan affordability and ACA periods all from one convenient location and enables Paycom to file IRS Forms 1094/1095-B and/or –C. Clients utilizing this application also have access to additional real-time compliance reports, alerts and historical data for audit trail purposes.

 

Our Clients

We serve a diverse client base in terms of size and industry. We have approximately 31,000 clients, or approximately 16,100 clients based on parent company grouping, none of which constituted more than one-half of one percent of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. We stored data for over 5.0 million persons employed by our clients during the year ended December 31, 2020.

Many small to mid-sized companies can typically make the decision to adopt our solution more quickly than larger companies, which we believe results in a shorter sales cycle and more closely corresponds to our target sales cycle of 30 to 90 days. As a result of the nature and size of our clientele, we maintain a diversified client base and very low revenue concentration among our clients. We believe, however, that larger employers represent a substantial opportunity to increase the number of clients we serve and to increase our revenues per client with limited incremental cost. As we attract clients at the higher end of our target client size range, we may face longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing some of our sales.

11

 

 

 

Competition

The market for HCM solutions is rapidly evolving, highly competitive and subject to changing technology, shifting client needs and frequent introduction of new products and services. Our competitors range from small, regional firms to large, well-established international firms with multiple product offerings.

We compete with firms that provide HCM solutions by various means. Many providers continue to deliver legacy enterprise software, but as demand for greater flexibility and access to information grows, we believe there will be increased competition in the delivery of HCM cloud-based solutions by other SaaS providers. Our competitors offer HCM solutions that may overlap with one, several or all categories of applications and include companies such as Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Ceridian HCM, Inc., Cornerstone OnDemand, Inc., Intuit, Inc., Insperity, Inc., Oracle Corporation, Paychex, Inc., Paylocity Holding Corporation, Paycor Inc., SAP SE, ServiceNow, Inc., Ultimate Kronos Group, Workday, Inc. and other local and regional providers.

Competition in the HCM solutions market is primarily based on service responsiveness, product quality and reputation, breadth of service, application offering and price. The importance of these factors depends on the size of the business. Price tends to be the most important factor of competition for smaller businesses with fewer employees, while the scope of features and customization is more important to larger businesses. Regardless of a company’s size, another important factor is the implementation experience, as all organizations are seeking a streamlined and simplified process.  

Sales and Marketing

We generate client leads and demo requests, accelerate sales opportunities and build brand awareness through our marketing programs that target senior finance and HR executives, technology professionals and senior business leaders of companies that perform HCM functions in-house or outsource these functions to one of our competitors. Our marketing programs include:

 
	

•
	

Podcast episodes, webinars, blogs, white papers and infographics;

 
	

•
	

National and local television advertising campaigns, personalized direct mail campaigns, email campaigns, social and digital media campaigns, industry-specific advertising and tradeshow exhibiting; and

 
	

•
	

Search engine marketing methods that include site optimization and pay-per-click searches.

We sell our solution exclusively through our captive sales force, substantially all of whom have a four-year college degree. We typically recruit sales candidates who have sales experience in non-HCM industries or, with respect to candidates recruited directly from colleges and universities, who have demonstrated an aptitude for sales. Our sales force is comprised of inside sales and field sales personnel, who are organized geographically, and client relations representatives (“CRRs”), who sell additional applications to existing clients. As of the filing of this Form 10-K, we have 50 sales teams (including one team consisting of CRRs and inside sales representatives) located in 27 states and plan to open additional sales offices to further expand our presence in the U.S. market.

When a new client processes payroll with us for an entire month, our sales representative receives a one-time commission based upon an estimate of future annual revenues from such client. Executive sales representatives receive a higher commission rate and base salary based upon both current year and career-to-date realized sales.

In addition to managing client relationships, our CRRs are focused on expanding the number of applications our clients purchase from us by introducing them to additional applications. When an existing client purchases and then utilizes a new application for one payroll cycle, a CRR receives a one-time commission based upon an estimate of future annual revenues from such client. 

Technology, Operations and Security

Technology

Our multi-tenant architecture enables us to deliver our solution across our client base from a single platform, while securely partitioning access to our clients’ respective application data. Because a single version of our solution is developed, supported and deployed across all of our clients, the Paycom solution is seamlessly scalable.

Operations

We physically host our solution for our clients in three secure data center facilities located in Oklahoma and Texas. Each of these data centers is owned and managed by Paycom, and Paycom is the only tenant occupying the data centers. All of our critical systems are fully redundant and backed up at regular intervals to these facilities, and backups are monitored for success and failure status daily. Client data is backed up in real-time among the three data centers. We maintain redundant load-balanced internet lines serviced by multiple service providers to each data center, to ensure optimized client access to our solution and the clients’ stored data. Our server and database clusters are fully redundant to ensure continuous service in the event of a disk failure.

12

 

 

 

Physical security includes biometric and dedicated ID-oriented access control, redundant alarm systems and continuous camera monitoring by our security guards. The data centers also have environmental monitoring and extensive environmental controls such as heat and fire protection, moisture, temperature, and humidity sensors, backup power supply and exterior reinforced concrete walls.

Security

We maintain a formal and comprehensive security program designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our clients’ data. During the regular course of business, we receive client data through our online system that we in turn process, record and store following ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certified controls and procedures. All communications with our servers must be encrypted and our servers are configured to only utilize high-grade encryption algorithms.

We strictly regulate and limit all access to servers and networks at each of our facilities. Local network access is restricted by domain authentication, using stringent access control lists. Remote network access is restricted by a defense-in-depth approach that includes redundant firewalls, preventing unauthorized access from external networks to systems within our local network. We also employ network and endpoint intrusion detection and prevention sensors throughout our infrastructure, systems that monitor our infrastructure and alert our continuously staffed security operations center of potential cybersecurity issues, a system for managing and installing patches for third-party applications, and highly restricted access to the internet for anyone who has access to client data. Our information security department regularly performs penetration testing and we retain a third-party penetration testing company to conduct penetration tests and periodic audits to identify and remediate any issues.

Our applications are secured using redundant code libraries, versioning, and secure coding practices that include a security review of developed code prior to release. Our IT infrastructure is secured and monitored using a number of best practices and tools at multiple layers of the physical and logical network. This security is also continually monitored by our information security department.

Software Development

Our application development team works closely with our clients to enhance our existing application offerings and develop new applications. This process is led by experienced product managers, who oversee the evolution of their respective applications within a focused timeframe of innovation and cultivation in order to deliver the well-developed applications and enhancements desired by our clients. Our product managers are proactive in their approach to assigning development requests based on research, trends and user feedback. A key element of our development process is the one-on-one personal interaction between clients and our CRRs, through whom our clients personally suggest new applications and features.

We develop our solution from the “ground up” with our internal development and engineering teams. Our development and engineering teams, along with our employees, conceive new applications and enhancements, review requests, schedule development in order of priority and subsequently develop the applications or enhancements. Our new applications and enhancements are independently reviewed by the quality assurance team, in accordance with our software development process, before being fully implemented. Any enhancements to our applications are released on a monthly scheduled release date to coordinate the communication and release to our clients.

Client Service

We are committed to providing industry-leading, client-centered service. For this reason, we assign each client a specialist within a dedicated team. This one-on-one service is a key part of our client service model and helps to ensure we are delivering an industry-leading solution and maintaining high client satisfaction. The primary elements of our client service model include the following:

Streamlined Setup and On-Boarding

After electing to deploy our solution, a new client begins our on-boarding process with assistance from a team of new client setup specialists and the sales representative responsible for obtaining the client’s business. In addition, we also have a team of transition specialists whose job it is to ensure that the process is performed smoothly, data is collected properly and all relevant employees are fully trained on the system. This team works closely with the client until the client is capable of managing our solution independently, at which time responsibility for the client relationship is transferred to our dedicated CRRs and service specialists. Unlike certain of our competitors, we do not outsource any of our on-boarding efforts.

Dedicated Service Specialists

After completing the on-boarding process, each client is assigned to a service specialist within a dedicated team. Clients can then contact their dedicated service specialist or a team member if any issues or questions arise. These specialists provide personalized service with actual knowledge of the clients’ business needs. When appropriate, client questions can be elevated to the specialists with

13

 

 

 

the appropriate application expertise. In addition, our CRRs proactively contact our clients to ensure satisfaction with our solution and introduce additional applications.

Expert Level Service

Our service specialists are trained across all of our applications to ensure that they can provide comprehensive, expert-level service. Our client service is ISO 9001:2015 certified and helps support our high client retention rate.

Regulatory and Certifications

We are subject to varying degrees of regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide services. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions. We are also subject to certain federal, state and local regulations based on the products we offer. For example, as a result of our background screening application, Enhanced Background Checks, we are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act and other federal and state background reporting laws. Further, our status as a government contractor subjects us to federal government contracting regulations including the adherence to heightened equal employment opportunity requirements, maintaining an affirmative action plan and other federal regulations.  

Data privacy has become a significant issue in the United States and in other countries. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations affecting or regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. In the United States, these include, for example, rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Family Medical Leave Act of 1993, the ACA, state breach notification laws and state privacy laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the “CCPA”), the California Privacy Rights Act (the “CPRA”) and the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (the “IBIPA”). Further, because some of our clients have establishments internationally, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) and other foreign data privacy laws may impact our processing of certain client and employee information.

We voluntarily obtain third-party security examinations relating to our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with System and Organization Controls Report, I (“SOC 1”). Our SOC 1 examination is conducted every six months by one of the four largest independent international auditing firms, and addresses, among other areas, our physical and environmental safeguards for production data centers, data availability and integrity procedures, change management procedures and logical security procedures. We also obtain third-party examinations relating to our internal controls over security and privacy in accordance with System and Organization Controls Report, II (“SOC 2”). Our SOC 2 examination is conducted every year by one of the four largest independent international auditing firms, and addresses, among other areas, internal controls around security, availability, processing integrity, confidentiality and privacy.

In April 2020, we renewed a certification based on ISO 9001:2015 criteria, a standard for the implementation of quality management processes published by ISO, covering our activities required to create and deliver our solution. This independent assessment of our conformity to the ISO 9001:2015 standard includes assessing the design and implementation of quality objectives to meet delivery standards on an ongoing basis. The certification is valid until April 2023, with continuing assessments taking place annually.

In January 2019, we obtained a certification based on ISO 22301:2012 criteria, a standard for implementing and managing an effective Business Continuity Management System (BCMS) published by ISO. This international standard for continuity management specifies requirements to plan, implement, operate and continually improve a documented management system to protect against, prepare for, respond to and recover from disruptive incidents when they arise. The certification is valid until January 2022, with continuing assessments taking place annually.  

In February 2020, we renewed a certification based on ISO/IEC 27001:2013 criteria, a security standard for Information Security Management Systems published by ISO covering our production, quality assurance and implementation environments. This independent assessment of our conformity to the ISO 27001 standard includes assessing security risks, designing and implementing comprehensive security controls and adopting an information security management process to meet security needs on an ongoing basis. The certification is valid through February 2023, with continuing assessments taking place annually.

Intellectual Property

We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We also have a number of registered and unregistered trademarks and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks as appropriate. We do not have any patents or patent applications pending.

14

 

 

 

Seasonality

Our revenues are seasonal in nature. Recurring revenues include revenues related to the annual processing of payroll forms, such as Form W-2 and Form 1099, and revenues from processing unscheduled payroll runs (such as bonuses) for our clients. Because payroll forms are typically processed in the first quarter of the year and many of our clients are also subject to ACA form filing requirements in the first quarter, first quarter revenues and margins are generally higher than in subsequent quarters. We anticipate that our revenues will continue to exhibit this seasonal pattern related to ACA form filings for so long as the ACA (or replacement legislation) includes employer reporting requirements. In addition, we often experience increased revenues during the fourth quarter due to unscheduled payroll runs for our clients that occur before the end of the year. Therefore, we expect the seasonality of our revenue cycle to decrease to the extent clients utilize more of our non-payroll applications.

Human Capital

As of December 31, 2020, we employed 4,218 people, substantially all of whom are full-time. Our human capital objectives include attracting, developing and retaining the best talent in the industry. We have been recognized both locally and nationally for providing our employees with an excellent work environment. We strive to provide a workplace that is free from harassment or discrimination, including harassment or discrimination involving race, color, sex, religion, gender, age, national origin, disability, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, veteran or marital status. We believe that creating this kind of work environment is fundamental to fostering diversity.

Diversity and Inclusion

Our commitment to diversity, inclusion and belonging starts with our goal to attract, retain and develop a workforce that is diverse in background, knowledge, skill and experience. As of December 31, 2020, women represented 51% and self-identified racial and ethnic minorities represented 31% of the Company’s workforce, respectively. Approximately 18% of our employees serve in a managerial role, defined as team leader or above. As of December 31, 2020, women held 47% and self-identified racial and ethnic minorities held 20% of the Company’s managerial roles, respectively. We recognize Paycom plays an important part in the lives of our employees and strive to create an inclusive workplace where employees feel heard, valued and appreciated for who they are.

 

Training and Development

Through the use of our Paycom learning tool, we empower our employees by providing tailored learning paths in areas such as leadership, diversity and inclusion, technical skills and compliance. During 2020, our employees completed thousands of unique courses utilizing our Paycom learning tool.

We provide our sales force with an intensive ten-week training course. Our unique training program includes instruction in accounting, business metrics, application features and tax matters relevant to our target market and we believe it fosters loyalty and helps maintain our corporate culture. Our training continues for our sales force through weekly strategy sessions and leadership development training. Executive sales representatives are also required to attend quarterly conferences to share best practices and receive legal and business updates.

Health, Safety and Wellness

We believe that our employees are the summation of our successes, which is why we offer an excellent health and benefits program to our employees and their families. We offer our employees comprehensive health insurance as well as optional dental and vision coverage. Additionally, we provide our employees several opportunities to focus on physical, mental and financial wellness by maintaining a fully equipped on-site gym, 401(k) matching, an employee stock purchase plan, and paid vacation, holiday, family leave and sick leave, with numerous other benefits offered to our employees.

Beginning in February 2020, we took various actions in order to minimize the risk of COVID-19 to our employees, our clients, and the communities in which we operate, and in March 2020, we prohibited all business-related travel until further notice and began transitioning our employees to work-from-home arrangements. Our sales employees have been conducting all meetings with current and prospective clients virtually since March 2020, and we expect this practice to continue for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2020, 96% of our employees were working remotely. Despite having the majority of our workforce working remotely, we continue to maintain our commitment to ensuring our employees’ health, safety and wellness. We have offered our employees online exercise classes and remote work resources and encourage employee feedback utilizing our Paycom surveys tool. Refer to “Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic” included in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information about the impact that COVID-19 has had on our business.

Segment Information

We operate in a single operating segment and a single reporting segment. Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is regularly evaluated by the chief operating decision maker function (which is

15

 

 

 

fulfilled by our chief executive officer) in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. Our chief executive officer allocates resources and assesses performance based upon financial information at the consolidated level. Since we operate in one operating segment, all required financial segment information is presented in the consolidated financial statements.

Available Information

Our internet address is www.paycom.com and our investor relations website is located at investors.paycom.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports can be found on our investor relations website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. The SEC maintains a public website, www.sec.gov, which includes information about and the filings of issuers that file electronically with the SEC.
