We were incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1985 and our principal executive offices are located at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102. We principally conduct our business through two direct wholly owned subsidiaries, PSE&G and PSEG Power, each of which also has its principal executive offices at 80 Park Plaza, Newark, New Jersey 07102.
We are an energy company with a diversified business mix. Our operations are located primarily in the Northeastern and Mid- Atlantic United States. Our business approach focuses on operational excellence, financial strength and disciplined investment. As a holding company, our profitability depends on our subsidiaries’ operating results. Below are descriptions of our two principal direct operating subsidiaries.
 
														
	PSE&G		PSEG Power	
			
	
A New Jersey corporation, incorporated in 1924, which is a franchised public utility in New Jersey. It is also the provider of last resort for gas and electric commodity service for end users in its service territory.
 
Earns revenues from its regulated rate tariffs under which it provides electric transmission and electric and natural gas distribution to residential, commercial and industrial customers in its service territory. It also offers appliance services and repairs to customers throughout its service territory.
 
Also invests in regulated solar generation projects and regulated energy efficiency and related programs in New Jersey.
		
A Delaware limited liability company formed in 1999 as a result of the deregulation and restructuring of the electric power industry in New Jersey. It integrates the operations of its merchant nuclear and fossil generating assets with its power marketing businesses and fuel supply functions through competitive energy sales in well-developed energy markets. 
Earns revenues from the generation and marketing of power and natural gas to hedge business risks and optimize the value of its portfolio of power plants, other contractual arrangements and oil and gas storage facilities. This is achieved primarily by selling power and transacting in natural gas and other energy-related products, on the spot market or using short-term or long-term contracts for physical and financial products.
Also earns revenues from solar generation facilities under long-term sales contracts for power and environmental products.

	
				
1
Table of Contents


Our other direct wholly owned subsidiaries are: PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), which operates the Long Island Power Authority’s (LIPA) electric transmission and distribution (T&D) system under a contractual agreement; PSEG Energy Holdings L.L.C. (Energy Holdings), which earns its revenues primarily from its portfolio of lease investments and holds our investments in offshore wind ventures; and PSEG Services Corporation (Services), which provides us and our operating subsidiaries with certain management, administrative and general services at cost.
BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND STRATEGY
PSE&G
Our regulated T&D public utility, PSE&G, distributes electric energy and natural gas to customers within a designated service territory running diagonally across New Jersey where approximately 6.2 million people, or about 70% of New Jersey’s population resides.
pseg-20201231_g1.gif
Products and Services
Our utility operations primarily earn margins through the T&D of electricity and the distribution of gas.
•Transmission—the movement of electricity at high voltage from generating plants to substations and transformers, where it is then reduced to a lower voltage for distribution to homes, businesses and industrial customers. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
•Distribution—the delivery of electricity and gas to the retail customer’s home, business or industrial facility. Our revenues for these services are based upon tariffs approved by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU).
The commodity portion of our utility business’ electric and gas sales is managed by basic generation service (BGS) and basic gas supply service (BGSS) suppliers. Pricing for those services is set by the BPU as a pass-through, resulting in no margin for our utility operations.
We also earn margins through competitive services, such as appliance repair, in our service territory.
2
Table of Contents


In addition to our current utility products and services, we have implemented several programs to invest in regulated solar generation within New Jersey, including:
•programs to help finance the installation of solar power systems throughout our electric service area, and
•programs to develop, own and operate solar power systems.
We have also implemented a set of energy efficiency programs to encourage conservation and energy efficiency by providing energy and cost-saving measures directly to businesses and families.
How PSE&G Operates
We are a transmission owner in PJM Interconnection, L.L.C. (PJM) and we provide distribution service to 2.3 million electric customers and 1.9 million gas customers in a service area that covers approximately 2,600 square miles running diagonally across New Jersey. We serve the most densely populated, commercialized and industrialized territory in New Jersey, including its six largest cities and approximately 300 suburban and rural communities.
Transmission
We use formula rates for our transmission cost of service and investments. Formula rates provide a method of rate recovery where the transmission owner annually determines its revenue requirements through a fixed formula that considers Operation and Maintenance expenditures, rate base and capital investments and applies an approved return on equity (ROE) in developing the weighted average cost of capital. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are subsequently trued up to reflect actual annual expenses and capital expenditures. Our current approved rates provide for a base ROE of 11.18% on existing and new transmission investment, while certain investments are entitled to earn an additional incentive rate. See Item 7. MD&A—Executive Overview of 2020 and Future Outlook.
We continue to invest in transmission projects that are included for review in the FERC-approved PJM transmission expansion process. These projects focus on reliability improvements and replacement of aging infrastructure with planned capital spending of $2.5 billion for transmission in 2021-2023 as disclosed in Item 7. MD&A—Capital Requirements.    
Distribution
PSE&G distributes electricity and natural gas to end users in our respective franchised service territories. In October 2018, the BPU issued an Order approving the settlement of our distribution base rate proceeding with new rates effective November 1, 2018. The Order provides for a distribution rate base of $9.5 billion, a 9.60% ROE for our distribution business and a 54% equity component of our capitalization structure. The BPU has also approved a series of PSE&G infrastructure, energy efficiency, electric vehicle and renewable energy investment programs with cost recovery through various clause mechanisms. For a discussion of proposed and approved programs, see Item 7. MD&A—Executive Overview of 2020 and Future Outlook. Our load requirements are split among residential, commercial and industrial (C&I) customers, as described in the following table for 2020:
																				
						
			% of 2020 Sales	
	Customer Type		Electric		Gas	
	Commercial		56%		36%	
	Residential		35%		60%	
	Industrial		9%		4%	
	Total		100%		100%	
						
Our customer base has modestly increased since 2016, with electric and gas loads changing as illustrated below:
3
Table of Contents


																													
									
	Electric and Gas Distribution Statistics	
						
		December 31, 2020			
	 	Number of
Customers		Electric Sales and Firm Gas
Sales (A)		Historical Annual Load Growth 2016-2020	
	Electric	2.3 		Million		39,666 		Gigawatt hours (GWh)		(1.0)%	
	Gas	1.9 		Million		2,370 		Million Therms		(1.2)%	
									
(A)Excludes sales from Gas rate classes that do not impact margin, specifically Contract, Non-Firm Transportation, Cogeneration Interruptible and Interruptible Services.
Electric sales declined due to the economic impact of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) on commercial usage, greater conservation, more energy efficient appliances and increases in solar net metering installations, partially offset by an increase in residential sales due to customers staying at home during the pandemic and customer growth. Firm gas sales decreased as a result of warmer weather in 2020 and lower commercial customer usage due to the pandemic, partially offset by an increase in residential sales due to the pandemic, customer growth and customer response to continued low gas prices. Only firm gas sales impact margin.
Solar Generation
We have undertaken two major solar initiatives at PSE&G, the Solar Loan Program and the Solar 4 All® Programs. Our Solar Loan Program provides solar system financing to our residential and commercial customers. The loans are repaid with cash or solar renewable energy certificates (SRECs). We sell the SRECs received through periodic auctions and use the proceeds to offset program costs. Our Solar 4 All® Programs invest in utility-owned solar photovoltaic (PV) grid-connected solar systems installed on PSE&G property and third-party sites, including landfill facilities, and solar panels installed on distribution system poles in our electric service territory. We sell the energy from the systems in the PJM wholesale electricity market. In addition, we sell SRECs generated by the projects through the same periodic auction used in the Solar Loan program, the proceeds of which are used to offset program costs.
Supply
Although commodity revenues make up almost 34% of our revenues, we make no margin on the default supply of electricity and gas since the actual costs are passed through to our customers.
All electric and gas customers in New Jersey have the ability to choose their electric energy and/or gas supplier. Pursuant to BPU requirements, we serve as the supplier of last resort for two types of electric and gas customers within our service territory that are not served by another supplier. The first type, which represents about 79% of PSE&G’s load requirements, provides default supply service for smaller C&I customers and residential customers at seasonally-adjusted fixed prices for a three-year term (BGS-Residential Small Commercial Pricing (RSCP)). These rates change annually on June 1 and are based on the average price obtained at auctions in the current year and two prior years. The second type provides default supply for larger customers, with energy priced at hourly PJM real-time market prices for a contract term of 12 months (BGS-Commercial Industrial Energy Pricing).
We procure the supply to meet our BGS obligations through auctions authorized by the BPU for New Jersey’s total BGS requirement. These auctions take place annually in February. Results of these auctions determine which energy suppliers are authorized to supply BGS to New Jersey’s electric distribution companies (EDCs). Once validated by the BPU, electricity prices for BGS service are set. Approximately one-third of PSE&G’s total BGS-RSCP eligible load is auctioned each year for a three-year term. For information on current prices, see Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.
PSE&G procures the supply requirements of its default service BGSS gas customers through a full-requirements contract with PSEG Power. The BPU has approved a mechanism designed to recover all gas commodity costs related to BGSS for residential customers. BGSS filings are made annually by June 1 of each year, with an effective date of October 1. PSE&G’s revenues are matched with its costs using deferral accounting, with the goal of achieving a zero cumulative balance by September 30 of each year. In addition, we have the ability to put in place two self-implementing BGSS increases on December 1 and February 1 of up to 5% and also may reduce the BGSS rate at any time and/or provide bill credits. Any difference between rates charged under the BGSS contract and rates charged to our residential customers is deferred and collected or refunded through adjustments in future rates. C&I customers that do not select third-party suppliers are also supplied under the BGSS arrangement. These customers are charged a market-based price largely determined by prices for commodity futures contracts.
4
Table of Contents


Markets and Market Pricing
Historically, there has been significant volatility in commodity prices. Such fluctuations can have a considerable impact on us since a rising commodity price environment results in higher delivered electric and gas rates for customers. This could result in decreased demand for electricity and gas, increased regulatory pressures and greater working capital requirements as the collection of higher commodity costs from our customers may be deferred under our regulated rate structure. A declining commodity price, on the other hand, would be expected to have the opposite effect.
PSEG Power
Through PSEG Power, we have sought to produce low-cost electricity by efficiently operating our nuclear, gas, oil-fired and renewable generation assets while balancing generation output, fuel requirements and supply obligations through energy portfolio management. Our commitments for load, such as BGS in New Jersey and other bilateral supply contracts, are backed by the generation we own and may be combined with the use of physical commodity purchases and financial instruments from the market to optimize the economic efficiency of serving the load. PSEG Power is a public utility within the meaning of the Federal Power Act (FPA) and the payments it receives and how it operates are subject to FERC regulation.
PSEG Power is also subject to certain regulatory requirements imposed by state utility commissions such as those in New York and Connecticut.
In July 2020, we announced that we are exploring strategic alternatives for PSEG Power’s non-nuclear generating fleet with the intention of accelerating the transformation of our business into a primarily regulated electric and gas utility, with a contracted generation business. See Item 8. Note 4. Early Plant Retirements/Asset Dispositions for further discussion.
Products and Services
As a merchant generator and power marketer, our revenue is derived from selling a range of products and services under contract to an array of customers, including utilities, other power marketers, such as retail energy providers, or counterparties in the open market. These products and services may be transacted bilaterally or through exchange markets and include but are not limited to:
•Energy—the electrical output produced by generation plants that is ultimately delivered to customers for use in lighting, heating, air conditioning and operation of other electrical equipment. Energy is our principal product and is priced on a usage basis, typically in cents per kilowatt hour or dollars per megawatt hour (MWh).
•Capacity—distinct from energy, capacity is a market commitment that a given generation unit will be available to an Independent System Operator (ISO) for dispatch to produce energy when it is needed to meet system demand. Capacity is typically priced in dollars per MW for a given sale period (e.g. day or month).
•Ancillary Services—related activities supplied by generation unit owners to the wholesale market that are required by the ISO to ensure the safe and reliable operation of the bulk power system. Owners of generation units may bid units into the ancillary services market in return for compensatory payments. Costs to pay generators for ancillary services are recovered through charges collected from market participants.
•Congestion and Renewable Energy Credits—Congestion credits (or Financial Transmission Rights) are financial instruments that entitle the holder to a stream of revenues (or charges) based on the hourly congestion price differences across a transmission path. Renewable Energy Credits (RECs) are obtained through PSEG Power’s owned renewable generation or purchased in the open market. Electric suppliers of load are required to deliver a certain amount or percentage of their delivered power from renewable resources as mandated by applicable regulatory requirements.
PSEG Power also sells wholesale natural gas, primarily through a full-requirements BGSS contract with PSE&G to meet the gas supply requirements of PSE&G’s customers. In 2014, the BPU approved an extension of the long-term BGSS contract to March 31, 2019, and thereafter the contract remains in effect unless terminated by either party with a two-year notice.
Approximately 48% of PSE&G’s peak daily gas requirements is provided from PSEG Power’s firm gas transportation capacity. PSEG Power satisfies the remainder of PSE&G’s requirements from storage contracts, contract peaking supply, liquefied natural gas and propane. Based upon the availability of natural gas beyond PSE&G’s daily needs, PSEG Power sells gas to others and uses it for its generation fleet.
PSEG Power also owns and operates 467 MW direct current (dc) of PV solar generation facilities. PSEG Power also has a 50% ownership interest in a 208 MW oil-fired generation facility in Hawaii.
The remainder of this section about PSEG Power covers our nuclear and fossil fleet which comprises the vast majority of PSEG Power’s operations and financial performance.
5
Table of Contents


How PSEG Power’s Generation Operates
Nearly all of our generation capacity is located in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States in some of the country’s largest and most developed electricity markets. For additional information see Item 2. Properties.
•Capacity
As of December 31, 2020, our fuel mix was comprised of 57% gas, 34% nuclear, 4% coal, and 5% oil. Our total generating output in 2020 was approximately 52,900 GWh. PSEG Power has announced the early retirement of its 383 MW coal unit in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 2021. Including this planned retirement in 2021, PSEG Power will have retired or exited through sales over 2,400 MW of coal-fired generation since 2017.
•Generation Dispatch
Our generation units have historically been characterized as serving one or more of three general energy market segments: base load; load following; and peaking, based on their operating capability and performance.
•Base Load Units run the most and typically are called to operate whenever they are available. These units generally derive revenues from both energy and capacity sales. Variable operating costs are low due to the combination of highly efficient operations and the use of relatively lower-cost fuels. Performance is generally measured by the unit’s “capacity factor,” or the ratio of the actual output to the theoretical maximum output.
•Load Following Units’ operating costs are generally higher per unit of output than for base load units due to the use of higher-cost fuels such as oil and natural gas or lower overall unit efficiency. These units usually have more flexible operating characteristics than base load units which enable them to more easily follow fluctuations in load. They operate less frequently than base load units and derive revenues from energy, capacity and ancillary services.
•Peaking Units run the least amount of time and in some cases may utilize higher-priced fuels. These units typically start very quickly in response to system needs. Costs per unit of output tend to be higher than for base load units given the combination of higher heat rates and fuel costs. The majority of revenues are from capacity and ancillary service sales. The characteristics of these units enable them to capture energy revenues during periods of high energy prices.
In the energy markets in which we operate, owners of power plants specify to the ISO prices at which they are prepared to generate and sell energy based on the marginal cost of generating energy from each individual unit. The ISOs will generally dispatch in merit order, calling on the lowest variable cost units first and dispatching progressively higher-cost units until the point that the entire system demand for power (known as the system “load”) is satisfied reliably. Base load units are dispatched first, with load following units next, followed by peaking units. It should be noted that the sustained lower pricing of natural gas over the past several years has resulted in changes in relative operating costs compared to historical norms, enabling some gas-fired generation to displace some generation by other fuel types. This change, combined with the addition of new, more efficient generation capacity, has altered the historical dispatch order of certain plants in the markets where we operate.
During periods when one or more parts of the transmission grid are operating at full capability, thereby resulting in a constraint on the transmission system, it may not be possible to dispatch units in merit order without violating transmission reliability standards. Under such circumstances, the ISO may dispatch higher-cost generation out of merit order within the congested area, and power suppliers will be paid an increased Locational Marginal Price (LMP) in congested areas, reflecting the bid prices of those higher-cost generation units.
Typically, the bid price of the last unit dispatched by an ISO establishes the energy market-clearing price. After considering the market-clearing price and the effect of transmission congestion and other factors, the ISO calculates the LMP for every location in the system. The ISO pays all units that are dispatched their respective LMP for each MWh of energy produced, regardless of their specific bid prices. Since bids generally approximate the marginal cost of production, units with lower marginal costs typically generate higher gross margins than units with comparatively higher marginal costs.
This method of determining supply and pricing creates a situation where natural gas prices often have a major influence on the price that generators will receive for their output, especially in periods of relatively strong or weak demand. Therefore, changes in the price of natural gas will often translate into changes in the wholesale price of electricity. This can be seen in the following graphs which present historical annual spot prices and forward calendar prices as averaged over each year at two liquid trading hubs.
6
Table of Contents


pseg-20201231_g2.jpgpseg-20201231_g3.jpg
We expect that the price of natural gas will continue to have a strong influence on the price of electricity in the primary markets in which we operate.
Market wholesale prices may vary by location resulting from congestion or other factors, such as the availability of natural gas from the Marcellus (Leidy) and other shale-gas regions and do not necessarily reflect our contract prices. Forward prices are volatile and there can be no assurance that current forward prices will remain in effect or that we will be able to contract output at these forward prices.
Fuel Supply
•Nuclear Fuel Supply—We have long-term contracts for nuclear fuel. These contracts provide for:
•purchase of uranium (concentrates and uranium hexafluoride),
7
Table of Contents


•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride,
•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride, and
•fabrication of nuclear fuel assemblies.
•Gas Supply—Natural gas is the primary fuel for the bulk of our load following and peaking fleet. We purchase gas directly from natural gas producers and marketers. These supplies are transported to New Jersey by four interstate pipelines with which we have contracted. In addition, we have firm gas transportation contracted for this winter season to serve a portion of the gas requirements for our Bethlehem Energy Center (BEC) in New York and hold year-round firm gas transportation to serve the majority of the requirements of Keys Energy Center in Maryland.
We have approximately 2.3 billion cubic feet-per-day of firm transportation capacity and firm storage delivery under contract to meet our obligations under the BGSS contract. This volume includes capacity from the Pennsylvania and Ohio shale gas regions where we purchase the majority of our natural gas. On an as-available basis, this firm transportation capacity may also be used to serve the gas supply needs of our New Jersey generation fleet.
•Oil—Oil is used as the primary fuel for one load following steam unit and four combustion turbine peaking units and can be used as an alternate fuel by several load following and peaking units that have a dual-fuel capability. Oil for operations is drawn from on-site storage and is generally purchased on the spot market and delivered by truck or barge.
We expect to be able to meet the fuel supply demands of our customers and our operations. However, the ability to maintain an adequate fuel supply could be affected by several factors not within our control, including changes in prices and demand, curtailments by suppliers, severe weather, environmental regulations, and other factors. For additional information and a discussion of risks, see Item 1A. Risk Factors, Item 7. MD&A—Executive Overview of 2020 and Future Outlook and Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.
Markets and Market Pricing
The vast majority of PSEG Power’s generation assets are located in three centralized, competitive electricity markets operated by ISO organizations all of which are subject to the regulatory oversight of FERC:
•PJM Regional Transmission Organization—PJM conducts the largest centrally dispatched energy market in North America. The PJM Interconnection coordinates the movement of electricity through all or parts of Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. The majority of our generating stations operate in PJM.
•New York—The New York ISO (NYISO) is the market coordinator for New York State and is responsible for managing the New York Power Pool and for administering its energy marketplace. Our BEC generating station operates in New York.
•New England—The ISO-New England (ISO-NE) is the market coordinator for the New England Power Pool and for administering its energy marketplace which covers Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut and Rhode Island. Our Bridgeport and New Haven stations operate in Connecticut.
The price of electricity varies by location in each of these markets. Depending on our production and our obligations, these price differentials may increase or decrease our profitability.
Commodity prices, such as electricity, gas, oil and environmental products, as well as the availability of our diverse fleet of generation units to operate, also have a considerable effect on our profitability. Over the long-term, the higher the forward prices are, the more attractive an environment exists for us to contract for the sale of our anticipated output. However, higher prices also increase the cost of replacement power; thereby placing us at greater risk should our generating units fail to operate effectively or otherwise become unavailable.
Over the past several years, lower wholesale natural gas prices have resulted in lower electric energy prices. This trend has reduced margin on forward sales as we re-contract our expected generation output.
In addition to energy sales, we earn revenue from capacity payments for our generating assets. These payments are compensation for committing our generating units to the ISO for dispatch at its discretion. Capacity payments reflect the value to the ISO of assurance that there will be sufficient generating capacity available at all times to meet system reliability and energy requirements. See Item 7. MD&A—Executive Overview of 2020 and Future Outlook—Wholesale Power Market Design.
8
Table of Contents


In PJM and ISO-NE, where we operate most of our generation, the market design for capacity payments provides for a structured, forward-looking, capacity pricing mechanism. This is through the Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) in PJM and the Forward Capacity Market (FCM) in ISO-NE. For additional information regarding FERC actions related to the capacity market construct, see Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation.
The prices to be received by generating units in PJM for capacity have been set through RPM base residual and incremental auctions and depend upon the zone in which the generating unit is located. For each delivery year, the prices differ in the various areas of PJM, depending on the transfer limitations of the transmission system in each area.
Our PJM generating units are located in several zones. The average capacity prices that PSEG Power expects to receive from the base and incremental auctions which have been completed are disclosed in Item 8. Note 3. Revenues. The price that must be paid by an entity serving load in the various zones is also set through these auctions. These prices can be higher or lower than the prices disclosed in Item 8. Note 3. Revenues due to the import and export capability to and from lower-priced areas.
We have obtained price certainty for our PJM capacity through May 2022 through the RPM pricing mechanism and New England capacity through May 2026 for Bridgeport Harbor Unit 5 and May 2024 for New Haven through the FCM pricing mechanism.
Like PJM and ISO-NE, the NYISO provides capacity payments to its generating units, but unlike the other two markets, the New York market does not provide a forward price signal beyond a six-month auction period.
For additional information on the RPM and FCM markets, as well as on state subsidization through various mechanisms, see Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation.
Hedging Strategy
To mitigate volatility in our results, we seek to contract in advance for a significant portion of our anticipated electric output, capacity and fuel needs. We seek to sell a portion of our anticipated lower-cost generation over a multi-year forward horizon, normally over a period of two to three years. We believe this hedging strategy increases the stability of earnings.
Among the ways in which we have hedged our output are: (1) sales at PJM West or other nodes corresponding to our generation portfolio and (2) physical load sales as full-requirements contracts. Sales in PJM generally reflect block energy sales at the liquid PJM Western Hub or other basis locations when available and other transactions that seek to secure price certainty for our generation related products.
Although we enter into these hedges to provide price certainty for a large portion of our anticipated generation, there is variability in both our actual output as well as in the effectiveness of our hedges. In addition, our use of full requirements contracts as a hedging strategy is expected to decline if the strategic alternatives for PSEG Power’s non-nuclear assets result in a disposition of these assets. Actual output will vary based upon total market demand, the relative cost position of our units compared to other units in the market and the operational flexibility of our units. Hedge volume can also vary, depending on the type of hedge into which we have entered.
Our fuel strategy is to maintain certain levels of uranium in inventory and to make periodic purchases to support such levels. Our nuclear fuel commitments cover approximately 100% of our estimated uranium, enrichment and fabrication requirements through 2021 and a significant portion through 2022.
We take a more opportunistic approach in hedging both the fuel for and the anticipated output of our natural gas-fired generation. The generation from more efficient load following units can be estimated with a moderate degree of certainty. The peaking units are less predictable, as a significant portion of these units will only dispatch when aggregate market demand has exceeded the supply provided by lower-cost units. The natural gas-fired units are hedged based on their expected generation; however, at much lower thresholds than base load generation. Additionally, the availability of low-cost gas supplies in the Marcellus region presents opportunities during certain portions of the year to procure gas for our generating units at attractive prices.
More than 70% of PSEG Power’s expected gross margin in 2021 relates to our hedging strategy, our expected revenues from the capacity market mechanisms described above, ZEC revenues and certain ancillary service payments such as reactive power.
The contracted percentages of our anticipated base load generation output for the next three years are as follows:
																										
								
	Base Load Generation		2021		2022		2023	
	Generation Sales		100%		65%-70%		30%-35%	
								
9
Table of Contents


Energy Holdings
Lease Investments
Energy Holdings primarily owns and manages a portfolio of domestic lease investments. See Item 8. Note 10. Financing Receivables for additional information.
Offshore Wind
In December 2020, PSEG entered into a definitive agreement with Ørsted North America to acquire a 25% equity interest in Ørsted’s Ocean Wind project. Ocean Wind was selected to be New Jersey’s first offshore wind farm as part of the state’s intention to add 7,500 MW of offshore wind generating capacity by 2035. The Ocean Wind project could provide first power in late 2024. Completion of the acquisition is anticipated to occur in the first half of 2021, subject to approval by the BPU and other customary closing conditions. Additionally, PSEG and Ørsted each owns 50% of Garden State Offshore Energy LLC which holds rights to an offshore wind lease area. PSEG and Ørsted are exploring other offshore wind opportunities.
LIPA Operations Services Agreement
In accordance with a twelve year Amended and Restated Operations Services Agreement (OSA) entered into by PSEG LI and LIPA, PSEG LI commenced operating LIPA’s electric T&D system in Long Island, New York on January 1, 2014. As required by the OSA, PSEG LI also provides certain administrative support functions to LIPA. PSEG LI uses its brand in the Long Island T&D service area. Under the OSA, PSEG LI acts as LIPA’s agent in performing many of its obligations and in return (a) receives reimbursement for pass-through operating expenditures, (b) receives a fixed management fee and (c) is eligible to receive an incentive fee contingent on meeting established performance metrics. Also, there is an opportunity for the parties to extend the contract for an additional eight years subject to the achievement by PSEG LI of certain performance levels during the initial term of the OSA. Further, since January 2015, PSEG Power provides fuel procurement and power management services to LIPA under separate agreements. See Item 7. MD&A—Executive Overview of 2020 and Future Outlook. 
COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT
PSE&G
Our T&D business is minimally impacted when customers choose alternate electric or gas suppliers since we earn our return by providing T&D service, not by supplying the commodity. Increased reliance by customers on net-metered generation, including solar, and changes in customer behaviors can result in decreased reliance on our system and impact our revenues and investment opportunities. The demand for electric energy and gas by customers is affected by customer conservation, economic conditions, weather and other factors not within our control. Construction of new local generation and changing customer usage patterns also have the potential to reduce the need for the construction of new transmission to transport remote generation and alleviate system constraints. However, our Conservation Incentive Program (CIP), which was recently approved by the BPU as part of our Clean Energy Future-Energy Efficiency (CEF-EE) program, reduces the impact on our distribution revenues from changes in sales volumes and demand for most customers. The CIP, which is calculated annually, provides for a true-up of to our current period revenue as compared to revenue thresholds established in our most recent distribution base rate proceeding. Recovery under the CIP is subject to certain limitations, including an actual versus allowed ROE test and ceilings on customer rate increases. The CIP is effective in June 2021 for electric revenues and October 2021 for gas revenues.
Changes in the current policies for building new transmission lines, such as those ordered by FERC and being implemented by PJM and other ISOs to eliminate contractual provisions that previously provided us a “right of first refusal” to construct projects in our service territory, could result in third-party construction of transmission lines in our area in the future and also allow us to seek opportunities to build in other service territories. These rules continue to evolve so both the extent of the risk within our service territory and the opportunities for our transmission business elsewhere remain difficult to assess. For additional information, see the discussion in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation—Transmission Regulation, below.
PSEG Power
Various market participants compete with us and one another in transacting in the wholesale energy markets, entering into bilateral contracts and selling to individual and aggregated retail customers. Our competitors include:
•merchant generators,
•domestic and multi-national utility generators,
•energy marketers and retailers,
•private equity firms, banks and other financial entities,
•fuel supply companies, and
10
Table of Contents


•affiliates of other industrial companies.
New additions of lower-cost or more efficient generation capacity, as well as subsidized generation capacity, could make our plants less economic in the future. Such capacity could impact market prices and our competitiveness.
Our business is also under competitive pressure due to demand-side management (DSM) and other efficiency efforts aimed at changing the quantity and patterns of usage by consumers which could result in a reduction in load requirements. A reduction in load requirements can also be caused by economic cycles, weather and climate change, municipal aggregation and other customer migration and other factors. In addition, how resources such as demand response and capacity imports are permitted to bid into the capacity markets also affects the prices paid to generators such as PSEG Power in these markets. It is also possible that advances in technology, such as distributed generation and micro grids, will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing electricity to a level that is competitive with that of most central station electric production. To the extent that additions to the electric transmission system relieve or reduce limitations and constraints in eastern PJM where most of our plants are located, our revenues could be adversely affected. Changes in the rules governing what types of transmission will be built, who is selected to build transmission and who will pay the costs of future transmission could also impact our generation revenues.
Adverse changes in energy industry law, policies and regulation could have significant economic, environmental and reliability consequences. For example, PJM, NYISO and ISO-NE each have capacity markets that have been approved by FERC. FERC regulates these markets and continues to examine whether the market design for each of these three capacity markets is working optimally. Various forums are considering how the competitive market framework can incorporate or be reconciled with state public policies that support particular resources, resource attributes or emerging technologies, whether generators are being sufficiently compensated in the capacity market and whether subsidized resources may be adversely affecting capacity market prices. For information regarding recent actions by FERC relating to capacity market design, see the discussion in Regulatory Issues—Federal Regulation.
Environmental issues, such as restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other pollutants, may also have a competitive impact on us to the extent that it becomes more expensive for some of our plants to remain compliant, thus affecting our ability to be a lower-cost provider compared to competitors without such restrictions. In addition, most of our plants, which are located in the Northeast where rules are more stringent, can be at an economic disadvantage compared to our competitors in certain Midwest states.
While it is our expectation that continued efforts may be undertaken by the federal and state governments to preserve the existing base nuclear generating plants, we still believe that pressures from renewable resources will continue to increase.
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
At PSEG, we know that our people are our most valuable resource. Our Human Capital Management objective is to ensure we have the best talent and culture to sustain our business.
PSEG continuously strives for a culture of inclusion that supports its employees, customers and the many diverse communities we serve. Fundamental to our culture are our Core Commitments–safety; integrity; continuous improvement; customer service; and diversity, equity and inclusion. Through these Core Commitments, we seek to attract, develop and retain a diverse, high-performing workforce that drives organizational performance and fosters a culture of collaboration, learning and comfort speaking up where new ideas are welcome and employees feel valued and enhance each other’s performance.
As of December 31, 2020, PSEG employed 12,788 full-time employees, of which 61% are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Women represent 18% of the PSEG workforce and 26% of our employees are people of color. Of our full-time external hires in 2020, 41% were women or racially/ethnically diverse.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
In 2020, PSEG added “equity” to our Diversity & Inclusion commitment. We performed a comprehensive review of our policies and practices, resulting in updates of our programs to better support equity. We expanded our paid parental leave program and have begun to revise our hiring practices to allow greater access to job opportunities. We conduct semi-annual equity reviews of compensation for non-represented employees and incorporate multiple levels of calibration of performance ratings. In 2020, we also launched a disability inclusion campaign to better understand our employee population self-identifying as having a disability.
We have a strong and active Employee Business Resource Group (EBRG) network of over 25 employee groups connected in 12 focus areas Enterprise-wide that is closely aligned to PSEG’s business objectives. These EBRGs encompass groups including, but not limited to, Black Professionals, Asian & Pacific Islanders, Hispanic/LatinX, LGBTQ+, People with Disabilities, New Hires, Women, Working Parents & Caregivers, and Veterans.
11
Table of Contents


Talent Management and Engagement
PSEG is committed to attracting, developing and retaining a robust talent pipeline, from our front lines to our leadership levels. In 2020, we created a women-in-skilled-trades initiative, and are piloting a partnership model with historically Black colleges and universities. Our People Strong training programs provide development at different career levels from our newly hired college graduates and front line supervisors to executive leadership pipeline. In 2020, we trained our top 200+ leaders in developing inclusive leadership skills. We also doubled participation in women’s leadership development programs and pioneered a new program for Black professionals in support of increasing representation in leadership ranks. To support safe and reliable operations, we invest in technical and operational training for our craft and field workers.
We solicit continuous feedback so that we improve our culture in a way that is responsive to the voices of our employees. We conduct surveys, focus groups and listening sessions throughout the year, in addition to our annual Your Voice Matters employee experience survey. In 2020, our overall employee engagement score was 86%, and 88% of employees reported feeling proud to work at PSEG.
Total Rewards
In addition to our competitive pay, incentives and benefits programs, our Total Rewards offerings take into account the safety, health and overall well-being of our employees. We offer an array of programs designed to support physical, emotional, and financial wellness. Our benefits programs are designed to support our employees through everyday challenges, critical life events, and new and changing life experiences. Our programs include access to live therapy, childcare and eldercare resources, voluntary benefits for discounted services, tuition reimbursement and adoption assistance.
Labor Relations
We are proud of the partnership we have with union leadership and the 7,786 employees represented by unions in our workforce. Our strong relationship with our unions allowed for swift and effective implementation of COVID-19 protocols. In 2020, we extended several of our labor contracts through dates in 2023, providing labor stability during the pendency of key business initiatives.
As we accelerate our business to a primarily regulated utility and contracted energy business with zero-carbon nuclear assets, PSEG is committed to a fair, equitable and transparent approach to human capital management, one that is grounded in treating people with dignity and respect. With evolving technologies in energy and digital advancements, we look for training, upskilling and redeployment opportunities for our existing workforce.
COVID-19 Response for Our Employees
In light of the national emergency and global pandemic due to COVID-19, PSEG activated its business continuity plan and enacted new work practices, workplace safety protocols, and expanded employee benefits and support to ensure the safety, health and wellness of our employees. Throughout the pandemic, we have maintained our workforce levels and provided frequent education to frontline managers and the workforce. We implemented remote work practices for all employees whose job could be performed remotely.
A pandemic response hotline was put in place to guide employees through questions about their COVID-19-related health and safety, to provide identification and notification of close contact exposure, and to offer clinical assessments to determine quarantine needs and appropriate return-to-work procedures.
We provided COVID-19 related paid time off for employees to take care of themselves and their family members, get vaccinated and to navigate school and daycare closures. We expanded our bereavement leave practice and enhanced childcare resources to support working parents. We have designed our Responsible Reentry approach and playbook for future business practices.
REGULATORY ISSUES
In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to regulation by, and are party to various claims and regulatory proceedings with, FERC, the BPU, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and various state and federal environmental regulators, among others. For information regarding material matters, other than those discussed below, see Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. In addition, information regarding PSE&G’s specific filings pending before the BPU is discussed in Item 8. Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities.
Federal Regulation
FERC is an independent federal agency that regulates the transmission of electric energy and natural gas in interstate commerce and the sale of electric energy and natural gas at wholesale pursuant to the FPA and the Natural Gas Act. PSE&G and the generation and energy trading subsidiaries of PSEG Power are public utilities as defined by the FPA. FERC has extensive oversight over such public utilities. FERC approval is usually required when a public utility seeks to: sell or acquire an asset
12
Table of Contents


that is regulated by FERC (such as a transmission line or a generating station); collect costs from customers associated with a new transmission facility; charge a rate for wholesale sales under a contract or tariff; or engage in certain mergers and internal corporate reorganizations.
FERC also regulates generating facilities known as qualifying facilities (QFs). QFs are cogeneration facilities that produce electricity and another form of useful thermal energy, or small power production facilities where the primary energy source is renewable, biomass, waste or geothermal resources. QFs must meet certain criteria established by FERC. We own various QFs through PSEG Power. QFs are subject to some, but not all, of the same FERC requirements as public utilities.
FERC also regulates Regional Transmission Operators (RTOs)/ISOs, such as PJM, and their energy and capacity markets.
Regulation of Wholesale Sales—Generation/Market Issues/Market Power
Under FERC regulations, public utilities that wish to sell power at market rates must receive FERC authorization (market-based rate (MBR) Authority) to sell power in interstate commerce before making power sales. They can sell power at cost-based rates or apply to FERC for authority to make MBR sales. For a requesting company to receive MBR Authority, FERC must first determine that the requesting company lacks market power in the relevant markets and/or that market power in the relevant markets is sufficiently mitigated. Certain PSEG companies are public utilities and currently have MBR Authority.
Energy Clearing Prices
Energy clearing prices in the markets in which we operate are generally based on bids submitted by generating units. Under FERC-approved market rules, bids are subject to price caps and mitigation rules applicable to certain generation units. FERC rules also govern the overall design of these markets. At present, all units within a delivery zone receive a clearing price based on the bid of the marginal unit (i.e. the last unit that must be dispatched to serve the needs of load) which can vary by location. In addition, recent rule changes in the energy markets administered by PJM and ISO-NE (see Capacity Market Issues below) impose rigorous performance obligations and non-performance penalties on resources during times of system stress. These FERC rules provide an opportunity for bonus payments or require the payment of penalties depending on whether a unit is available during a performance hour.
In April 2019, FERC issued an order directing PJM and NYISO to change their rules governing pricing for fast-start resources. In its Order, FERC found that current fast-start pricing practices are unjust and unreasonable because they do not allow prices to reflect the marginal cost of serving load. FERC required PJM and NYISO to make various changes to their respective tariffs to allow the start-up costs of fast-start resources to be reflected in prices, among other things. In August 2019, PJM stated that new tariff provisions would apply fast-start pricing to all eligible fast-start resources. However, in January 2020, FERC decided to hold the proceeding in abeyance in order to allow PJM and its stakeholders to address FERC’s concern that PJM’s pricing and dispatch are misaligned. In December 2020, FERC issued an order accepting aspects of PJM’s proposed reforms, but also directed PJM to submit an additional filing that includes an implementation date. The new rules will not be implemented until FERC issues an order approving PJM’s final compliance filing. We will continue to participate in this proceeding.
In May 2020, FERC issued an order approving PJM’s proposal to modify the curves used for pricing reserves with FERC. The reforms include a consolidation of synchronized reserve products, improved use of existing capability for locational reserve needs, better alignment of reserve products in day-ahead and real-time markets, a downward-sloping operating reserve demand curve, and increased penalty factors to ensure use of all supply prior to a reserve shortage. These reforms will be implemented in May 2022.
In January 2020, New Jersey rejoined the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative (RGGI). As a result, generating plants operating in New Jersey that emit CO2 emissions will have to procure credits for each ton that they emit. Other PJM states in RGGI are Maryland, Delaware and Virginia and Pennsylvania continues to investigate joining. PJM initiated a process in 2019 to investigate the development of a carbon pricing mechanism that may mitigate the environmental and financial distortions that could occur when emissions “leak” from non-participating states to the RGGI states. The process is expected to continue through 2021 and if it leads to a market solution, could have a material impact on the value of PSEG Power’s generating fleet.
Capacity Market Issues
PJM, NYISO and ISO-NE each have capacity markets that have been approved by FERC. FERC regulates these markets and continues to examine whether the market design for each of these three capacity markets is working optimally. Various forums are considering how the competitive market framework can incorporate or be reconciled with state public policies that support particular resources, resource attributes or emerging technologies, whether generators are being sufficiently compensated in the capacity market and whether subsidized resources may be adversely affecting capacity market prices. We cannot predict what action, if any, FERC might take with regard to capacity market designs.
PJM—The RPM is the locational installed capacity market design for the PJM region, including a forward auction for installed capacity. Under the RPM, generators located in constrained areas within PJM are paid more for their capacity as an incentive to
13
Table of Contents


ensure adequate supply where generation capacity is most needed. The mechanics of the RPM in PJM continue to evolve and be refined in stakeholder proceedings and FERC proceedings in which we are active.
In December 2019, FERC issued an order establishing new rules for PJM’s capacity market. In this new order, FERC extended the PJM Minimum Offer Price Rule (MOPR), which currently applies to new natural gas-fired generators, to include both new and existing resources that receive or are entitled to receive certain out-of-market payments, with certain exemptions.
PSEG Power’s New Jersey nuclear plants that receive ZEC payments will be subject to the new MOPR. Resources that are subject to the MOPR continue to have the ability to justify a bid below the MOPR floor price under the unit-specific exemption. The MOPR floor prices are not expected to prevent either our nuclear or gas-fired units from clearing in the next RPM auction. In May 2020, FERC issued an order modifying PJM’s methodology for pricing energy reserves. It also directed PJM to use forward-looking energy and ancillary service revenues, which can affect how the MOPR offer floors are calculated. In addition, if one or more electric distribution zones in New Jersey (or another state) were to become fixed resource requirement (FRR) service areas, procurements needed for that area could provide an alternate means for nuclear units whose ability to clear in RPM auctions was affected by the MOPR to provide capacity within PJM.
We cannot predict whether additional changes will be made to the MOPR, or whether changes will occur in the PJM market that would impact our ability to clear any of these units in future RPM auctions.
States that have clean energy programs designed to achieve public policy goals that support such resources as solar, offshore wind and nuclear are not prevented from pursuing those programs by the expanded MOPR and could choose to utilize the existing FRR approach authorized under the PJM tariff. The FRR provides a means other than PJM’s capacity auction for an entity obligated to supply customers to satisfy its capacity obligation. Accordingly, subsidized units that cannot clear in an RPM capacity auction because of the expanded MOPR could still count as capacity resources to a load serving entity using the FRR approach. In a March 2020 order, the BPU initiated an investigation to examine whether New Jersey can achieve its long-term clean energy and environmental objectives under the current resource adequacy procurement paradigm and potential alternatives. One of the areas of inquiry concerns the potential creation of FRR service areas within New Jersey.
ISO-NE—ISO-NE’s market for installed capacity in New England provides fixed capacity payments for generators, imports and demand response. The market design consists of a forward-looking auction for installed capacity that is intended to recognize the locational value of resources on the system and contains incentive mechanisms to encourage availability during stressed system conditions. ISO-NE also employs a mechanism, similar to PJM’s Capacity Performance mechanism, that provides incentives for performance and that imposes charges for non-performance during times of system stress. We view this mechanism as generally positive for generating resources as providing more robust income streams. However, it also imposes additional financial risk for non-performance.
NYISO—NYISO operates a short-term capacity market that provides a forward price signal only for six months into the future. Various matters pending before FERC could affect the competitiveness of this market and the outcome of these proceedings could result in artificial price suppression unless sufficient market protections are adopted.
Transmission Regulation
FERC has exclusive jurisdiction to establish the rates and terms and conditions of service for interstate transmission. We currently have FERC-approved formula rates in effect to recover the costs of our transmission facilities. Under this formula, rates are put into effect in January of each year based upon our internal forecast of annual expenses and capital expenditures. Rates are subsequently trued up to reflect actual annual expenses and capital expenditures.
Transmission Rate Proceedings and Return on Equity—From time to time, various matters are pending before FERC relating to, among other things, transmission planning, reliability standards and transmission rates and returns, including incentives. Depending on their outcome, any of these matters could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition.
In November 2019, FERC issued an order establishing a new ROE policy for reviewing existing transmission ROEs. The new methodology uses the discounted cash flow (DCF) model and capital asset pricing model (CAPM) to determine if an existing base ROE is unjust and unreasonable and, if so, what replacement ROE is appropriate. PSE&G joined the PJM Transmission Owners in requesting rehearing of FERC’s order on the grounds that the new methodology is flawed. In May 2020, FERC partially granted rehearing of the November 2019 order and again revised the ROE methodology by reinstating the risk premium model with the CAPM and DCF models. FERC’s order indicated that it would not be bound by this revised methodology when considering the just and reasonableness of a utility’s ROE in future proceedings. We continue to analyze the potential impact of these methodologies.
ROE complaints have been pending before FERC regarding Midcontinent Independent System Operator (MISO) transmission owners, the ISO New England Inc. transmission owners and utilities in other jurisdictions. In addition, over the past few years, several companies have negotiated settlements that have resulted in reduced ROEs.
We are engaged in settlement discussions with the BPU Staff and the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel (New Jersey Rate
14
Table of Contents


Counsel) about the level of PSE&G’s base transmission ROE; however, we cannot predict the outcome of these settlement discussions. An adverse change to PSE&G’s base transmission ROE or ROE incentives could be material.
    Compliance
Reliability Standards—Congress has required FERC to put in place, through the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), national and regional reliability standards to ensure the reliability of the U.S. electric transmission and generation system (grid) and to prevent major system blackouts. As a result, FERC directed NERC to draft a physical security standard intended to further protect assets deemed “critical” to reliability of the grid. In July 2015, FERC issued an order approving NERC’s proposed physical security standard. Under the standard, utilities are required to identify critical substations as well as develop threat assessment plans to be reviewed by independent third parties. In our case, the third-party is PJM. As part of these plans, utilities can decide or be required to build additional redundancy into their systems. This standard supplements the Critical Infrastructure Protection standards that are already in place and that establish physical and cybersecurity protections for critical systems. FERC directed NERC to develop a new reliability standard to provide security controls for supply chain management associated with the procurement of industrial control system hardware, software, and services related to grid operations. FERC approved the supply chain management standard in October 2018, with an implementation date of October 1, 2020. We have documented procedures and implemented new processes to comply with these standards.
CFTC
In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), the SEC and the CFTC are in the process of implementing a new regulatory framework for swaps and security-based swaps. The legislation was enacted to reduce systemic risk, increase transparency and promote market integrity within the financial system by providing for the registration and comprehensive regulation of swap dealers and by imposing recordkeeping, data reporting, margin and clearing requirements with respect to swaps. To implement the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFTC has engaged in a comprehensive rulemaking process and has issued a number of proposed and final rules addressing many of the key issues. We are currently subject to recordkeeping and data reporting requirements applicable to commercial end users. The CFTC has also re-proposed rules establishing position limits for trading in certain commodities, such as natural gas, and we will begin complying with these rules once they become final.
Nuclear
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)
Our operation of nuclear generating facilities is subject to comprehensive regulation by the NRC, a federal agency established to regulate nuclear activities to ensure the protection of public health and safety, as well as the environment. Such regulation involves testing, evaluation and modification of all aspects of plant operation in light of NRC safety and environmental requirements. Continuous demonstration to the NRC that plant operations meet requirements is necessary.
The NRC has the ultimate authority to determine whether any nuclear generating unit may operate. The NRC conducts ongoing reviews of nuclear industry operating experience and may issue or revise regulatory requirements. We are unable to predict the final outcome of these reviews or the cost of any actions we would need to take to comply with any new regulations, including possible modifications to the Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom facilities, but such costs could be material.
In March 2020, Exelon, co-owner of the Peach Bottom nuclear facilities in Pennsylvania, received approval from the NRC for a second 20-year license renewal for Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3. The current operating licenses of our nuclear facilities expire in the years shown in the following table:
														
				
	Unit		Year	
	Salem Unit 1		2036	
	Salem Unit 2		2040	
	Hope Creek		2046	
	Peach Bottom Unit 2		2053	
	Peach Bottom Unit 3		2054	
				
State Regulation
Our principal state regulator is the BPU, which oversees electric and natural gas distribution companies in New Jersey. We are also subject to various other states’ regulations due to our operations in those states.
Our New Jersey utility operations are subject to comprehensive regulation by the BPU including, among other matters, regulation of retail electric and gas distribution rates and service, the issuance and sale of certain types of securities and compliance matters. PSE&G’s participation in solar and energy efficiency programs is also regulated by the BPU, as the terms
15
Table of Contents


and conditions of these programs are approved by the BPU. BPU regulation can also have a direct or indirect impact on our power generation business as it relates to energy supply agreements and energy policy in New Jersey.
In addition to base rates, we recover certain costs or earn on certain investments pursuant to mechanisms known as adjustment clauses. These clauses permit the flow-through of costs to, or the recovery of investments from, customers related to specific programs, outside the context of base rate proceedings. Recovery of these costs or investments is subject to BPU approval for which we make periodic filings. Delays in the pass-through of costs or recovery of investments under these mechanisms could result in significant changes in cash flow.
New Jersey Energy Master Plan (EMP)—In January 2020, the State of New Jersey released its EMP. While the EMP does not have the force of law and does not impose any obligations on utilities, it outlines current expectations regarding the state’s role in the use, management, and development of energy. The EMP recognizes the goals of New Jersey’s Clean Energy Act of 2018 (the Clean Energy Act) of reducing electric and gas consumption by at least 2% and 0.75%, respectively. The EMP outlines several strategies, including statewide energy efficiency programs; expansion of renewable generation (solar and offshore wind), energy storage and other carbon-free technologies; preservation of existing nuclear generation; electrification of the transportation sector; and reduced reliance on natural gas. We cannot predict the impact on our business or results of operations from the EMP or any laws, rules or regulations promulgated as a result thereof, particularly as they may relate to PSEG Power’s nuclear and gas generating stations and PSE&G’s electric transmission and gas distribution assets. We also cannot predict what actions federal government agencies may take in light of the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Affordable Clean Energy (ACE) rule and other federal initiatives associated with climate change or the impact of any such actions on our business or results of operations.
Concurrently with the release of the EMP, New Jersey Governor Murphy signed an executive order directing the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) to establish a greenhouse gas (GHG) monitoring and reporting program, adopt new regulations to reduce CO2 emissions and reform environmental land use regulations to incorporate climate change considerations into permitting decisions. We cannot predict the impact of this executive order.
BGSS Process—In September 2019, the BPU formally opened a stakeholder proceeding to explore gas capacity procurement and related issues with respect to service to all New Jersey natural gas customers, whether served through BGSS or a third- party supplier. In addition, the BPU directed that the proceeding review whether, and to what extent, third-party suppliers are providing savings to New Jersey customers on their natural gas supply. The Board Staff has conducted a public hearing and interested parties, including PSE&G, have submitted oral and written comments while also answering the Staff’s specific questions concerning, among other things, capacity procurement (e.g., timing, price, sufficiency); the sufficiency of pipeline capacity within New Jersey; the cost impacts if gas distribution companies were made responsible for securing incremental capacity for their transportation customers; and economic benefits to residential customers. The proceeding remains open.
BGS Process—In July 2020, the State’s EDCs filed their annual proposal for the conduct of the February 2021 BGS auction covering electric supply for energy years 2022 through 2024. In prior years, the BPU and BGS suppliers expressed concerns regarding transmission costs incurred by BGS participants that are collected from customers but not paid to the BGS suppliers due to several unresolved proceedings at FERC. To address these concerns, the EDCs proposed, among other things, to (a) remove transmission from the BGS product in the upcoming 2021 BGS auction, and (b) amend existing BGS contracts to transfer responsibility for transmission-through the transfer of specific PJM billing line items-from the BGS supplier to the EDCs. In both cases, each EDC will continue to collect transmission costs from its BGS customers as a supply cost. In November 2020, the BPU approved both proposals. As a result, (a) the 2021 BGS auction product excluded the obligation for the BGS suppliers to provide transmission and (b) BGS suppliers now have the option to amend existing BGS contracts to transfer the supplier’s obligation to provide transmission to the EDCs effective February 1, 2021. In November 2020, the BPU also directed the EDCs to enter into agreements with BGS suppliers pursuant to which the EDCs would pay to BGS suppliers certain funds collected from BGS customers notwithstanding the absence of final FERC Orders in certain cases in which transmission cost allocations have been challenged. Previously, the EDCs had collected these funds from customers but withheld payment of these funds to BGS suppliers until the issuance of a final FERC Order. As security to the EDCs, in the event that the cost allocation challenges are ultimately successful and BGS suppliers must return the funds to the EDCs, the BGS suppliers must post a letter of credit in an amount equal to 50% of the payment due the suppliers. Those BGS suppliers that do not choose to receive such funds are not required to enter into agreements or post letters of credit with the EDCs.
New Jersey Solar Initiatives—Pursuant to the Clean Energy Act, the BPU was required to undertake several initiatives in connection with New Jersey’s solar energy market.
The BPU established a “Community Solar Energy Pilot Program,” permitting customers to participate in solar energy projects remotely located from their properties, and allowing for bill credits related to that participation effective in February 2019. The BPU is currently engaged in a stakeholder process with the State’s EDCs and others regarding certain issues, including minor modifications to the community solar pilot program, discussions regarding the potential implementation of consolidated billing for the benefit of project developers and participants, and developing a cost recovery mechanism for the EDCs.
16
Table of Contents


The Clean Energy Act required the BPU to close the existing SREC program to new applications at the earlier of June 1, 2021 or the date at which 5.1% of New Jersey retail electric sales are derived from solar. The 5.1% threshold was attained and the SREC market was closed to new applications on April 30, 2020, with limited exceptions related to the impact of COVID-19 on projects under development. Solar projects that failed to achieve commercial operation before April 30, 2020 may be entitled to receive transition renewable energy certificates (TRECs) for each MWh of solar production. The New Jersey EDCs, including PSE&G, are required to purchase, using the services of a TREC administrator, TRECs from solar projects at rates set by the BPU. PSE&G filed for rate recovery of these costs in April 2020. In August 2020, the BPU approved PSE&G’s rate recovery filing. The BPU is continuing to work with the state’s EDCs to establish the mechanisms for implementing the transition incentive program.
Cybersecurity
In an effort to reduce the likelihood and severity of cybersecurity incidents, we have established a comprehensive cybersecurity program designed to protect and preserve the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information systems. The Board, the Audit Committee, Industrial Operations Committee and senior management receive frequent reports on such topics as personnel and resources to monitor and address cybersecurity threats, technological advances in cybersecurity protection, rapidly evolving cybersecurity threats that may affect our Company and industry, cybersecurity incident response and applicable cybersecurity laws, regulations and standards, as well as collaboration mechanisms with intelligence and enforcement agencies and industry groups, to assure timely threat awareness and response coordination.
Our cybersecurity program is focused on the following areas:
•Governance
•Cybersecurity Council—which is comprised of members of senior management, meets regularly to discuss emerging cybersecurity issues and maintenance of a corporate cybersecurity scorecard to measure performance of key risk indicators. The Cybersecurity Council ensures that senior management, and ultimately, the Board, is given the information required to exercise proper oversight over cybersecurity risks and that escalation procedures are followed.
•Cybersecurity Excellence Oversight Board (CEOB)—provides the Chief Operating Officer with periodic cybersecurity assessments of PSEG. The CEOB is comprised of employee and non-employee members who have expertise in technology security, compliance and controls, or in management practices.
•Cybersecurity Awareness—Identifying and assessing cyber risks through partnerships with public and private entities and industry groups, and disseminating electronic notices to, and conducting presentations for, company personnel.
•Training—Providing annual cybersecurity training for all personnel with network access, as well as additional education for personnel with access to industrial control systems or customer information systems; and conducting phishing exercises. Regular cybersecurity education is also provided to our Board through management reports and presentations by external subject matter experts.
•Technical Safeguards—Deploying measures to protect our network perimeter and internal Information Technology platforms, such as internal and external firewalls, network intrusion detection and prevention, penetration testing, vulnerability assessments, threat intelligence, anti-malware and access controls.
•Vendor Management—Maintaining a risk-based vendor management program, including the development of robust security contractual provisions. Notably, in 2020, we implemented additional measures to ensure compliance with new requirements promulgated by the NERC applicable to cyber systems involved in the operation of the Bulk Electric System (BES). These new or enhanced measures require PSEG to identify and assess risks to the BES from vendor products or services.
•Incident Response Plans—Maintaining and updating incident response plans that address the life cycle of a cybersecurity incident from a technical perspective (i.e., detection, response, and recovery), as well as data breach response (with a focus on external communication and legal compliance); and testing those plans (both internally and through external exercises).
•Mobile Security—Deploying controls to prevent loss of data through mobile device channels.
PSEG also maintains physical security measures to protect its Operational Technology systems, consistent with a defense in depth and risk-tiered approach. Such physical security measures may include access control systems, video surveillance, around-the-clock command center monitoring, and physical barriers (such as fencing, walls, and bollards). Additional features of PSEG’s physical security program include threat intelligence, insider threat mitigation, background checks, a threat level
17
Table of Contents


advisory system, a business interruption management model, and active coordination with federal, state, and local law enforcement officials. See Regulatory Issues—Federal for a discussion on physical reliability standards that the NERC has promulgated.
In addition, we are subject to federal and state requirements designed to further protect against cybersecurity threats to critical infrastructure, as discussed below. For a discussion of the risks associated with cybersecurity threats, see Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Federal—NERC, at the direction of FERC, has implemented national and regional reliability standards to ensure the reliability of the grid and to prevent major system blackouts. NERC Critical Infrastructure Protection standards establish cybersecurity protections for critical systems and facilities. These standards are also designed to develop coordination, threat sharing and interaction between utilities and various government agencies regarding potential cyber threats against the nation’s electric grid.
FERC further directed NERC to develop a new reliability standard to provide security controls for supply chain management associated with the procurement of industrial control system hardware, software, and services related to bulk electric system operations. FERC approved the supply chain risk management standard in October 2018, with an implementation date of October 1, 2020. We have documented procedures and implemented new processes to comply with these standards.
State—The BPU requires utilities, including PSE&G, to, among other things, implement a cybersecurity program that defines and implements organizational accountabilities and responsibilities for cyber risk management activities, and establishes policies, plans, processes and procedures for identifying and mitigating cyber risk to critical systems. Additional requirements of this order include, but are not limited to: (i) annually inventorying critical utility systems; (ii) annually assessing risks to critical utility systems; (iii) implementing controls to mitigate cyber risks to critical utility systems; (iv) monitoring log files of critical utility systems; (v) reporting cyber incidents to the BPU; and (vi) establishing a cybersecurity incident response plan and conducting biennial exercises to test the plan. In addition, New York’s Stop Hacks and Improve Electronic Data Security (SHIELD) Act, which became effective in March 2020, requires businesses that own or license computerized data that includes New York State residents’ private information to implement reasonable safeguards to protect that information.
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations with regard to environmental matters including, but not limited to:
•air pollution control,
•climate change,
•water pollution control,
•hazardous substance liability, and
•fuel and waste disposal.
We expect there will be changes to existing environmental laws and regulations, particularly in light of the change in administration following the 2020 U.S. presidential election that could significantly impact the manner in which our operations are currently conducted. Such laws and regulations may also affect the timing, cost, location, design, construction and operation of new facilities. Due to evolving environmental regulations, it is difficult to project future costs of compliance and their impact on competition. Capital costs of complying with known pollution control requirements are included in our estimate of construction expenditures in Item 7. MD&A—Capital Requirements. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed by future regulations are not known, but may be material.
For additional information related to environmental matters, including proceedings not discussed below, as well as anticipated expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, hazardous substance liabilities and fuel and waste disposal costs, see Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 8. Note 15. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities.
Air Pollution Control
Our facilities are subject to federal regulation under the Clean Air Act that requires controls of emissions from sources of air pollution and imposes recordkeeping, reporting and permit requirements. Our facilities are also subject to requirements established under state and local air pollution laws. The Clean Air Act requires all major sources, such as our generation facilities, to obtain and keep current an operating permit. The costs of compliance associated with any new requirements that may be imposed and included in these permits in the future could be material and are not included in our estimates of capital expenditures.
Environmental Justice—In September 2020, the New Jersey governor signed legislation that enacted an environmental justice process for applicants seeking environmental permits, including those emission permits regulated under Title V of the Clean Air Act, for facilities located in what the law defines as overburdened communities. With this law, New Jersey has embarked on a
18
Table of Contents


path toward a legislative goal that no community should bear “a disproportionate share of the adverse environmental and public health consequences that accompany New Jersey’s economic growth.” The law does not go into effect until the NJDEP adopts implementing regulations. The regulations are anticipated to be finalized by year-end 2021.
Hazardous Air Pollutants Regulation—In February 2012, the EPA published Mercury Air Toxics Standards (MATS) for both newly-built and existing electric generating sources under the National Emission Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants provisions of the Clean Air Act. The MATS established allowable levels for mercury as well as other hazardous air pollutants (HAPS) and went into effect in April 2015. In April 2016, the EPA released the final Supplemental Finding that considers the materiality of costs in determining whether to regulate hazardous air pollutants from power plants in response to a ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court. The 2016 Supplemental Finding determined that HAPS from existing electric generating units should be regulated and that the environmental and health benefits derived from the reduction in emissions of both HAPS and co-benefit pollutants far outweighed the cost of compliance. Industry participants and various state authorities filed petitions with the D.C. Circuit challenging the EPA’s Supplemental Finding.
In May 2020, the EPA finalized a revised Supplemental Finding that reversed the 2016 Supplemental Finding, concluding that it was not “appropriate and necessary” to regulate HAPS from electric generating sources. However, the EPA retained the emission standards and other requirements of MATS. A major coal mining company filed a lawsuit to force the EPA to vacate MATS. We have filed as intervenors to the coal mining company’s suit to challenge the company’s attempt to vacate MATS. In addition, we have joined a challenge against the EPA’s revised Supplemental Finding in the D.C. Circuit Court. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
Climate Change
CO2 Regulation under the Clean Air Act—In June 2019, the EPA issued its final ACE rule as a replacement for the repealed Clean Power Plan, a GHG emission regulation for existing power plants. The ACE rule narrowly defines the “best system of emissions reductions” (BSER) as heat improvements to be applied only to an individual unit, excluding other potential mechanisms to address climate change. In September 2019, a coalition of power companies, including PSEG, filed a Petition for Review of the ACE rule with the D.C. Circuit challenging the EPA’s narrow interpretation of BSER. In January 2021, the D.C. Circuit vacated the ACE rule and remanded the rulemaking to the EPA for further consideration. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter or estimate its impact on our business or results of operations.
RGGI—Certain northeastern states (RGGI States) participate in the RGGI and have state-specific rules in place to enable the RGGI regulatory mandate in each state to cap and reduce CO2 emissions. Generating plants operating in RGGI states that emit CO2 will have to procure credits for each ton that they emit. The post-2020 program cap on regional CO2 emissions for RGGI requires a decline in CO2 emissions in 2021 and each year thereafter, resulting in a 30% reduction in the CO2 emissions cap by 2030.
In June 2019, the NJDEP issued two rules that began New Jersey’s re-entry into RGGI. The first rule established New Jersey’s initial cap on GHG emissions of 18 million tons in 2020. This rule follows the RGGI model rule with a cap that will decline three percent annually through 2030 to a final cap of 11.5 million tons. The second rule established the framework for how credits will be allocated among the New Jersey Economic Development Authority , the BPU and the NJDEP. In April 2020, the state issued a final three-year Strategic Funding Plan that determines how quarterly RGGI credits are to be allocated. New Jersey facilities became subject to RGGI on January 1, 2020. With New Jersey’s re-entry into RGGI, we have generation facilities in four of the RGGI States, specifically New Jersey, New York, Maryland and Connecticut.
New Jersey adopted the Global Warming Response Act in 2007, which calls for stabilizing its GHG emissions to 1990 levels by 2020, followed by a further reduction of greenhouse emissions to 80% below 2006 levels by 2050. To reach this goal, the NJDEP, the BPU, other state agencies and stakeholders are required to evaluate methods to meet and exceed the emission reduction targets, taking into account their economic benefits and costs.
New Jersey Protecting Against Climate Threats (NJ PACT)—In response to a New Jersey Executive Order, the NJDEP has undertaken a regulatory reform effort that is designed to modernize environmental laws, referred to as New Jersey Protecting Against Climate Threats (NJ PACT). When implemented, NJ PACT is expected to result in changes to existing environmental regulation, modernizing air quality and environmental land use regulations that will enable governments, businesses and residents to effectively respond to current climate threats and reduce future climate damages. We continue to assess the potential impact of the NJ PACT, which could have cost implications for construction of new or upgrades to existing utility infrastructure and upgrades of our fossil generation facilities. Such expenditures could materially affect the continued economic viability and/or cost to construct one or more such facilities.
Water Pollution Control
The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) prohibits the discharge of pollutants to U.S. waters from point sources, except pursuant to a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued by the EPA or by a state under a federally authorized state program. The FWPCA authorizes the imposition of technology-based and water quality-based
19
Table of Contents


effluent limits to regulate the discharge of pollutants into surface waters and ground waters. The EPA has delegated authority to a number of state agencies, including those in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, to administer the NPDES program through state action. We also have ownership interests in facilities in other jurisdictions that have their own laws and implement regulations to control discharges to their surface waters and ground waters that directly govern our facilities in those jurisdictions.
The EPA’s Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 316(b) rule establishes requirements for the regulation of cooling water intakes at existing power plants and industrial facilities with a design flow of more than two million gallons of water per day. The EPA requires that the NPDES permits be renewed every five years and that each state Permitting Director manage renewal permits for its respective power generation facilities on a case by case basis. The NJDEP manages the permits under the New Jersey Pollutant Discharge Elimination System program. Connecticut and New York also have permits to manage their respective pollutant discharge elimination system programs.
Hazardous Substance Liability
The production and delivery of electricity and the distribution and manufacture of gas result in various by-products and substances classified by federal and state regulations as hazardous. These regulations may impose liability for damages to the environment from hazardous substances, including obligations to conduct environmental remediation of discharged hazardous substances and monetary payments, regardless of the absence of fault, any contractual agreements between private parties, and the absence of any prohibitions against the activity when it occurred, as well as compensation for injuries to natural resources. Our historic operations and the operations of hundreds of other companies along the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers are alleged by federal and state agencies to have discharged substantial contamination into the Passaic River/Newark Bay Complex. The EPA is also evaluating the Hackensack River, a tributary to Newark Bay, for inclusion in the Superfund program. We no longer manufacture gas.
Site Remediation—The Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the New Jersey Spill Compensation and Control Act (Spill Act) require the remediation of discharged hazardous substances and authorize the EPA, the NJDEP and private parties to commence lawsuits to compel clean-ups or reimbursement for such remediation. The clean-ups can be more complicated and costly when the hazardous substances are in or under a body of water.
Natural Resource Damages—CERCLA and the Spill Act authorize the assessment of damages against persons who have discharged a hazardous substance, causing an injury to natural resources. Pursuant to the Spill Act, the NJDEP requires persons conducting remediation to address injuries to natural resources through restoration or damages. The NJDEP adopted regulations concerning site investigation and remediation that require an ecological evaluation of potential damages to natural resources in connection with an environmental investigation of contaminated sites.
Fuel and Waste Disposal
Nuclear Fuel Disposal—The federal government has entered into contracts with the operators of nuclear power plants for transportation and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (NWPA), nuclear plant owners are required to contribute to a Nuclear Waste Fund to pay for this service. Since May 2014, the United States Department of Energy (DOE) reduced the nuclear waste fee to zero. No assurances can be given that this fee will not be increased in the future. The NWPA allows spent nuclear fuel generated in any reactor to be stored in reactor facility storage pools or in Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installations located at reactors or away from reactor sites.
We have on-site storage facilities that are expected to satisfy the storage needs of Salem 1, Salem 2, Hope Creek, Peach Bottom 2 and Peach Bottom 3 through the end of their operating licenses. 
Low-Level Radioactive Waste—As a by-product of their operations, nuclear generation units produce low-level radioactive waste. Such waste includes paper, plastics, protective clothing, water purification materials and other materials. These waste materials are accumulated on site and disposed of at licensed permanent disposal facilities. New Jersey, Connecticut and South Carolina have formed the Atlantic Compact, which gives New Jersey nuclear generators continued access to the Barnwell waste disposal facility which is owned by South Carolina. We believe that the Atlantic Compact will provide for adequate low-level radioactive waste disposal for Salem and Hope Creek through the end of their current licenses including full decommissioning, although no assurances can be given. Low-Level Radioactive Waste is periodically being shipped to the Barnwell site from Salem and Hope Creek. Additionally, there are on-site storage facilities for Salem, Hope Creek and Peach Bottom, which we believe have the capacity for at least five years of temporary storage for each facility.
20
Table of Contents


INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS (PSEG)
																				
						
Name		Age as of
December 31,
2020		Office		Effective Date
First Elected to
Present Position
						
Ralph Izzo		63		Chairman of the Board (COB), President and
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) - PSEG		April 2007 to present
				COB and CEO - PSE&G		April 2007 to present
				COB and CEO - PSEG Power		April 2007 to present
				COB and CEO - Energy Holdings		April 2007 to present
				COB and CEO - Services		January 2010 to present
						
Daniel J. Cregg		57		Executive Vice President (EVP) and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) - PSEG		October 2015 to present
				EVP and CFO - PSE&G		October 2015 to present
				EVP and CFO - PSEG Power		October 2015 to present
						
Ralph A. LaRossa		57		COB - PSEG Long Island LLC		December 2020 to present
				Chief Operating Officer (COO) - PSEG		January 2020 to present
				President and COO - PSEG Power		October 2017 to present
				President and COO - PSE&G		October 2006 to October 2017
				COB - PSEG Long Island LLC		October 2013 to October 2017
						
David M. Daly		59		President - PSE&G		October 2017 to present
				President and COO of PSEG Utilities and Clean Energy Ventures - Services; President - PSE&G 		January 2020 to December 2020
				COB - PSEG Long Island LLC		October 2017 to December 2020
				COO - PSE&G		October 2017 to December 2019
				President and COO - PSEG Long Island LLC		October 2013 to October 2017
						
Derek M. DiRisio		56		President - Services		August 2014 to present
						
Tamara L. Linde		56		EVP and General Counsel - PSEG		July 2014 to present
				EVP and General Counsel - PSE&G		July 2014 to present
				EVP and General Counsel - PSEG Power		July 2014 to present
						
Rose M. Chernick		57		VP and Controller - PSEG		March 2019 to present
				VP and Controller - PSE&G		March 2019 to present
				VP and Controller - PSEG Power		March 2019 to present
				VP-Finance, Corporate Strategy and Planning - Services		November 2017 to March 2019
				VP-Finance, Holdings and Corporate Strategy and Planning - Services		October 2015 to November 2017
