 Pinnacle West
Pinnacle West is a holding company that conducts business through its subsidiaries.  We derive essentially all of our revenues and earnings from our wholly-owned subsidiary, APS.  APS is a vertically-integrated electric utility that provides either retail or wholesale electric service to most of the State of Arizona, with the major exceptions of about one-half of the Phoenix metropolitan area, the Tucson metropolitan area and Mohave County in northwestern Arizona.
 
Pinnacle West’s other subsidiaries are El Dorado, BCE and 4CA.  Additional information related to these subsidiaries is provided later in this report.
 
Our reportable business segment is our regulated electricity segment, which consists of traditional regulated retail and wholesale electricity businesses (primarily electric service to Native Load customers) and related activities, and includes electricity generation, transmission and distribution.
 
BUSINESS OF ARIZONA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY
 
APS currently provides electric service to approximately 1.3 million customers.  We own or lease 6,321 MW of regulated generation capacity and we hold a mix of both long-term and short-term purchased power agreements for additional capacity, including a variety of agreements for the purchase of renewable energy.  During 2020, no single purchaser or user of energy accounted for more than 1.4% of our electric revenues.

3
Table of Contents
The following map shows APS’s retail service territory, including the locations of its generating facilities and principal transmission lines.
pnw-20201231_g1.jpg

4
Table of Contents
Energy Sources and Resource Planning

To serve its customers, APS obtains power through its various generation stations and through purchased power agreements.  Resource planning is an important function necessary to meet Arizona’s future energy needs.  APS’s sources of energy by type used to supply energy to Native Load customers during 2020 were as follows:
pnw-20201231_g2.jpg
*Renewables include energy from wind, solar, geothermal, biomass, distributed generation and solar power purchase agreements.

The share of APS’s energy supply being derived from clean resources is 50%. BCE also has acquired minority ownership positions in two wind farms that achieved commercial operation in 2020. Both wind farms deliver power under long-term power purchase agreements. See “Business of Other Subsidiaries — Bright Canyon Energy” below for information regarding BCE’s investment.

Clean Energy Focus Initiatives

APS has undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce carbon, including renewable energy procurement and development, and promotion of programs and rates that promote energy conservation, renewable energy use, and energy efficiency. (See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Current and Future Resources” below for details of these plans and initiatives.) APS currently has a diverse portfolio of renewable resources, including solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, and biomass. In addition, in January 2020 APS announced its Clean Energy Commitment, a three-pronged approach aimed at ultimately eliminating carbon-emitting resources from its electric generation resource portfolio.
5
Table of Contents

APS’s clean energy goals consist of three parts:
•a 2050 goal to provide 100% clean, carbon-free electricity;
•a 2030 target of achieving a resource mix that is 65% clean energy, with 45% of the generation portfolio coming from renewable energy; and
•a commitment to end APS’s use of coal-fired generation by 2031.

Among other strategies, APS intends to achieve these goals through various methods such as relying on Palo Verde, the nation’s largest producer of carbon-free energy; increasing clean energy resources, including renewables; developing energy storage; ceasing the use of coal-generated electricity; managing demand with a modern interactive grid; promoting customer technology and energy efficiency; and optimizing regional resources. (See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” for additional information about APS’s Clean Energy Commitment.)

Over this same period of time, APS also intends to harden its infrastructure in order to improve climate resiliency, which involves system and operational improvements aimed at reducing the impact of extreme weather events and other climate-related disruptions upon APS’s operations. Among other resiliency strategies, APS anticipates increasing investments in a modern and more flexible electricity grid with advanced distribution technologies. APS plans to continue its comprehensive forest management programs aimed at reducing wildfires, as those risks become compounded by shorter, drier winters and longer, hotter summers.

APS prepares an annual inventory of GHG emissions from its operations. For APS’s operations involving fossil-fuel electricity generation and electricity transmission and distribution, APS’s annual GHG inventory is reported to EPA under the EPA GHG Reporting Program. APS also voluntarily tracks the full scope of APS’s GHG emissions arising from all APS operations. In addition to GHG emissions from generation and transmission and distribution operations, this data includes all other GHG emissions arising from ancillary APS operations, such as vehicle use, employee travel, portable generators and facility energy usage. This data is then communicated to the public in Pinnacle West’s annual Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website (www.pinnaclewest.com/corporate-responsibility). The report provides information related to the Company and its approach to sustainability and its workplace and environmental performance. The information on Pinnacle West’s website, including the Corporate Responsibility Report, is not incorporated by reference into or otherwise a part of this report.

Generation Facilities
 
APS has ownership interests in or leases the coal, nuclear, gas, oil and solar generating facilities described below.  For additional information regarding these facilities, see Item 2.
 
Nuclear

Palo Verde Generating Station — Palo Verde is a 3-unit nuclear power plant located approximately 50 miles west of Phoenix, Arizona.  APS operates the plant and owns 29.1% of Palo Verde Units 1 and 3 and approximately 17% of Unit 2.  In addition, APS leases approximately 12.1% of Unit 2, resulting in a 29.1% combined ownership and leasehold interest in that unit.  APS has a total entitlement from Palo Verde of 1,146 MW.
 
6
Table of Contents
Palo Verde Leases — In 1986, APS entered into agreements with three separate lessor trust entities in order to sell and lease back approximately 42% of its share of Palo Verde Unit 2 and certain common facilities.  The leaseback was originally scheduled to expire at the end of 2015 and contained options to renew the leases or to purchase the leased property for fair market value at the end of the lease terms.  On July 7, 2014, APS exercised the fixed rate lease renewal options.  The exercise of the renewal options resulted in APS retaining the assets through 2023 under one lease and 2033 under the other two leases. At the end of the lease renewal periods, APS will have the option to purchase the leased assets at their fair market value, extend the leases for up to two years, or return the assets to the lessors. (See Note 18 for additional information regarding the Palo Verde Unit 2 sale leaseback transactions.)
 
Palo Verde Operating Licenses — Operation of each of the three Palo Verde Units requires an operating license from the NRC.  The NRC issued full power operating licenses for Unit 1 in June 1985, Unit 2 in April 1986 and Unit 3 in November 1987, and issued renewed operating licenses for each of the three units in April 2011, which extended the licenses for Units 1, 2 and 3 to June 2045, April 2046 and November 2047, respectively.
 
Palo Verde Fuel Cycle — The participant owners of Palo Verde are continually identifying their future nuclear fuel resource needs and negotiating arrangements to fill those needs.  The fuel cycle for Palo Verde is comprised of the following stages:
•mining and milling of uranium ore to produce uranium concentrates;
•conversion of uranium concentrates to uranium hexafluoride;
•enrichment of uranium hexafluoride;
•fabrication of fuel assemblies;
•utilization of fuel assemblies in reactors; and
•storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel.
    
The Palo Verde participants have contracted for 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for uranium concentrates through 2027 and 70% through 2028; 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for conversion services through 2030; 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for enrichment services through 2026 and 40% for 2027; and 100% of Palo Verde’s requirements for fuel fabrication through 2027.

Spent Nuclear Fuel and Waste Disposal — The Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (“NWPA”) required the DOE to accept, transport, and dispose of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste generated by the nation’s nuclear power plants by 1998.  The DOE’s obligations are reflected in a contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel and/or High-Level Radioactive Waste (the “Standard Contract”) with each nuclear power plant.  The DOE failed to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by 1998.  The DOE had planned to meet its NWPA and Standard Contract disposal obligations by designing, licensing, constructing, and operating a permanent geologic repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada.  In June 2008, the DOE submitted its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application to the NRC, but in March 2010, the DOE filed a motion to dismiss with prejudice the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application.  Several legal proceedings followed challenging DOE’s withdrawal of its Yucca Mountain construction authorization application and the NRC’s cessation of its review of the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application, which were consolidated into one matter at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (the “D.C. Circuit”). Following the D.C. Circuit’s August 2013 order, the NRC issued two volumes of the safety evaluation report developed as part of the Yucca Mountain construction authorization application. Publication of these volumes do not signal whether or when the NRC might authorize construction of the repository. APS is directly involved in legal proceedings related to the
7
Table of Contents
DOE’s failure to meet its statutory and contractual obligations regarding acceptance of spent nuclear fuel and high level waste.
 
APS Lawsuit for Breach of Standard Contract — In December 2003, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the Palo Verde participants, filed a lawsuit against the DOE in the United States Court of Federal Claims (“Court of Federal Claims”) for damages incurred due to the DOE’s breach of the Standard Contract.  The Court of Federal Claims ruled in favor of APS and the Palo Verde participants in October 2010 and awarded damages to APS and the Palo Verde participants for costs incurred through December 2006.
 
On December 19, 2012, APS, acting on behalf of itself and the participant owners of Palo Verde, filed a second breach of contract lawsuit against the DOE in the Court of Federal Claims. This lawsuit sought to recover damages incurred due to the DOE’s breach of the Standard Contract for failing to accept Palo Verde’s spent nuclear fuel and high level waste from January 1, 2007 through June 30, 2011, as it was required to do pursuant to the terms of the Standard Contract and the NWPA. On August 18, 2014, APS and the DOE entered into a settlement agreement, stipulating to a dismissal of the lawsuit and payment by the DOE to the Palo Verde owners for certain specified costs incurred by Palo Verde during the period January 1, 2007 through June 30, 2011. In addition, the settlement agreement provides APS with a method for submitting claims and getting recovery for costs incurred through December 31, 2016, which was extended to December 31, 2022.

APS has submitted and received payment for six claims pursuant to the terms of the August 18, 2014 settlement agreement, for six separate time periods during July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2019. The DOE has paid $99.7 million for these claims (APS’s share is $29 million). The amounts recovered were primarily recorded as adjustments to a regulatory liability and had no impact on reported net income. APS’s next claim pursuant to the terms of the August 18, 2014 settlement agreement was submitted to the DOE on November 2, 2020 in the amount of $12.2 million (APS’s share is $3.6 million).

Waste Confidence and Continued Storage — On June 8, 2012, the D.C. Circuit issued its decision on a challenge by several states and environmental groups of the NRC’s rulemaking regarding temporary storage and permanent disposal of high level nuclear waste and spent nuclear fuel.  The petitioners had challenged the NRC’s 2010 update to the agency’s waste confidence decision and temporary storage rule (“Waste Confidence Decision”). The D.C. Circuit found that the NRC’s evaluation of the environmental risks from spent nuclear fuel was deficient, and therefore remanded the Waste Confidence Decision update for further action consistent with National Environmental Policy Act. In September 2013, the NRC issued its draft Generic Environmental Impact Statement (“GEIS”) to support an updated Waste Confidence Decision. On August 26, 2014, the NRC approved a final rule on the environmental effects of continued storage of spent nuclear fuel. Renamed as the Continued Storage Rule, the NRC’s decision adopted the findings of the GEIS regarding the environmental impacts of storing spent fuel at any reactor site after the reactor’s licensed period of operations. As a result, those generic impacts do not need to be re-analyzed in the environmental reviews for individual licenses. The final Continued Storage Rule was subject to continuing legal challenges before the NRC and the Court of Appeals. In June 2016, the D.C. Circuit issued its final decision, rejecting all remaining legal challenges to the Continued Storage Rule. On August 8, 2016, the D.C. Circuit denied a petition for rehearing.
    
Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site independent spent fuel storage installation (“ISFSI”) to store all of the nuclear fuel that will be irradiated during the initial operating license period, which ends in December 2027. Additionally, Palo Verde has sufficient capacity at its on-site ISFSI to store a portion of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation, which ends in
8
Table of Contents
November 2047. If uncertainties regarding the United States government’s obligation to accept and store spent fuel are not favorably resolved, APS will evaluate alternative storage solutions that may obviate the need to expand the ISFSI to accommodate all of the fuel that will be irradiated during the period of extended operation.
 
Nuclear Decommissioning Costs — APS currently relies on an external sinking fund mechanism to meet the NRC financial assurance requirements for decommissioning its interests in Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3.  The decommissioning costs of Palo Verde Units 1, 2 and 3 are currently included in APS’s ACC jurisdictional rates.  Decommissioning costs are recoverable through a non-bypassable system benefits charge (paid by all retail customers taking service from the APS system).  Based on current nuclear decommissioning trust asset balances, site specific decommissioning cost studies, anticipated future contributions to the decommissioning trusts, and return projections on the asset portfolios over the expected remaining operating life of the facility, we are on track to meet the current site specific decommissioning costs for Palo Verde at the time the units are expected to be decommissioned. (See Note 19 for additional information about APS’s nuclear decommissioning trusts.)
 
Palo Verde Liability and Insurance Matters — See “Palo Verde Generating Station — Nuclear Insurance” in Note 11 for a discussion of the insurance maintained by the Palo Verde participants, including APS, for Palo Verde.
 
Natural Gas and Oil Fueled Generating Facilities

APS has six natural gas power plants located throughout Arizona, consisting of Redhawk, located near Palo Verde; Ocotillo, located in Tempe (discussed below); Sundance, located in Coolidge; West Phoenix, located in southwest Phoenix; Saguaro, located north of Tucson; and Yucca, located near Yuma. Several of the units at Yucca run on either gas or oil. APS has two oil-only power plants: Fairview, located in the town of Douglas, Arizona and Yucca GT-4 in Yuma, Arizona. APS owns and operates each of these plants with the exception of one oil-only combustion turbine unit and one oil and gas steam unit at Yucca that are operated by APS and owned by the Imperial Irrigation District. APS has a total entitlement from these plants of 3,573 MW. A portion of the gas for these plants is financially hedged up to five years in advance of purchasing and that position is converted to a physical gas purchase one month prior to delivery. APS has long-term gas transportation agreements with three different companies, some of which are effective through 2027. Fuel oil is acquired under short-term purchases delivered by truck directly to the power plants.

Ocotillo was originally a 330 MW 4-unit gas plant located in Tempe. In early 2014, APS announced a project to modernize the plant, which involved retiring two older 110 MW steam units, adding five 102 MW combustion turbines and maintaining two existing 55 MW combustion turbines. In total, this increased the capacity of the site by 290 MW to 620 MW. (See Note 4 for rate recovery as part of the ACC final written Opinion and Order issued reflecting its decision in APS’s general retail rate case (the “2017 Rate Case Decision”) and the 2019 Retail Rate Case Filing). The Ocotillo modernization project was completed in 2019.

Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities
 
Four Corners — Four Corners is located in the northwestern corner of New Mexico, and was originally a 5-unit coal-fired power plant. APS owns 100% of Units 1, 2 and 3, which were retired as of December 30, 2013. APS operates the plant and owns 63% of Four Corners Units 4 and 5. APS has a total entitlement from Four Corners of 970 MW. Additionally, 4CA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle
9
Table of Contents
West, owned 7% of Units 4 and 5 from July 2016 through July 2018 following its acquisition of El Paso’s interest in these units described below. As part of APS’s Clean Energy Commitment, APS has committed to cease using coal-fired generation as part of its portfolio of electricity generating resources, including Four Corners, by 2031.

NTEC, a company formed by the Navajo Nation to own the mine that serves Four Corners and develop other energy projects, is the coal supplier for Four Corners. The Four Corners’ co-owners executed a long-term agreement for the supply of coal to Four Corners from July 2016 through 2031 (the “2016 Coal Supply Agreement”). El Paso, a 7% owner of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners, did not sign the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement. Under the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement, APS agreed to assume the 7% shortfall obligation. On February 17, 2015, APS and El Paso entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS, or an affiliate of APS, of El Paso’s 7% interest in each of Units 4 and 5 of Four Corners. 4CA purchased the El Paso interest on July 6, 2016. The purchase price was immaterial in amount, and 4CA assumed El Paso’s reclamation and decommissioning obligations associated with the 7% interest.

On June 29, 2018, 4CA and NTEC entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the sale to NTEC of 4CA’s 7% interest in Four Corners. The sale transaction closed on July 3, 2018. NTEC purchased the 7% interest at 4CA’s book value, approximately $70 million, and is paying 4CA the purchase price over a period of four years pursuant to a secured interest-bearing promissory note. In connection with the sale, Pinnacle West guaranteed certain obligations that NTEC will have to the other owners of Four Corners, such as NTEC’s 7% share of capital expenditures and operating and maintenance expenses. Pinnacle West’s guarantee is secured by a portion of APS’s payments to be owed to NTEC under the 2016 Coal Supply Agreement.

The 2016 Coal Supply Agreement contained alternate pricing terms for the 7% interest in the event NTEC did not purchase the interest. Until the time that NTEC purchased the 7% interest, the alternate pricing provisions were applicable to 4CA as the holder of the 7% interest. These terms included a formula under which NTEC must make certain payments to 4CA for reimbursement of operations and maintenance costs and a specified rate of return, offset by revenue generated by 4CA’s power sales. The amount under this formula for calendar year 2018 (up to the date that NTEC purchased the 7% interest) was approximately $10 million, which was due to 4CA on December 31, 2019. Such payment was satisfied in January 2020 by NTEC directing to 4CA a prepayment from APS of future coal payment obligations.

APS, on behalf of the Four Corners participants, negotiated amendments to an existing facility lease with the Navajo Nation, which extends the Four Corners leasehold interest from 2016 to 2041. The Navajo Nation approved these amendments in March 2011. The effectiveness of the amendments also required the approval of the DOI, as did a related federal rights-of-way grant. A federal environmental review was undertaken as part of the DOI review process, and culminated in the issuance by DOI of a record of decision on July 17, 2015 justifying the agency action extending the life of the plant and the adjacent mine.
 
Cholla — Cholla was originally a 4-unit coal-fired power plant, which is located in northeastern Arizona. APS operates the plant and owns 100% of Cholla Units 1, 2 and 3. PacifiCorp owns Cholla Unit 4, and APS operated that unit for PacifiCorp. On September 11, 2014, APS announced that it would close Cholla Unit 2 and cease burning coal at the other APS-owned units (Units 1 and 3) at the plant by the mid-2020s, if EPA approved a compromise proposal offered by APS to meet required environmental and emissions standards and rules. On April 14, 2015, the ACC approved APS’s plan to retire Unit 2, without expressing any view on the future recoverability of APS’s remaining investment in the Unit. APS closed
10
Table of Contents
Unit 2 on October 1, 2015. Following the closure of Unit 2, APS has a total entitlement from Cholla of 387 MW. In early 2017, EPA approved a final rule incorporating APS’s compromise proposal, which took effect for Cholla on April 26, 2017. In December 2019, PacifiCorp notified APS that it planned to retire Cholla Unit 4 by the end of 2020 and the unit ceased operation in December 2020.

APS purchases all of Cholla’s coal requirements from a coal supplier that mines all of the coal under long-term leases of coal reserves with the federal and state governments and private landholders. The Cholla coal contract runs through 2024. In addition, APS has a coal transportation contract that runs through 2024.

Navajo Plant — The Navajo Plant is a 3-unit coal-fired power plant located in northern Arizona. Salt River Project operates the plant and APS owns a 14% interest in Units 1, 2 and 3. APS had a total entitlement from the Navajo Plant of 315 MW. The Navajo Plant site is leased from the Navajo Nation and is also subject to an easement from the federal government.

The co-owners of the Navajo Plant and the Navajo Nation agreed that the Navajo Plant would remain in operation until December 2019 under the existing plant lease. The co-owners and the Navajo Nation executed a lease extension on November 29, 2017 that allowed for decommissioning activities to begin after the plant ceased operations in November 2019.

APS is currently recovering depreciation and a return on the net book value of its interest in the Navajo Plant over its previously estimated life through 2026. APS will seek continued recovery in rates for the book value of its remaining investment in the plant (see Note 4 for details related to the resulting regulatory asset) plus a return on the net book value as well as other costs related to retirement and closure, which are still being assessed and which may be material.

See Note 11 for information regarding APS’s coal mine reclamation obligations related to these coal-fired plants.

Solar Facilities

APS developed utility scale solar resources through the 170 MW ACC-approved AZ Sun Program, investing approximately $675 million in this program. These facilities are owned by APS and are located in multiple locations throughout Arizona. In addition to the AZ Sun Program, APS developed the 40 MW Red Rock Solar Plant, which it owns and operates. Two of our large customers purchase renewable energy credits from APS that are equivalent to the amount of renewable energy that Red Rock is projected to generate.
 
APS owns and operates more than thirty small solar systems around the state.  Together they have the capacity to produce approximately 4 MW of renewable energy.  This fleet of solar systems includes a 3 MW facility located at the Prescott Airport and 1 MW of small solar systems in various locations across Arizona.  APS has also developed solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems installed as part of the Community Power Project in Flagstaff, Arizona.  The Community Power Project, approved by the ACC on April 1, 2010, was a pilot program through which APS owns, operates and receives energy from approximately 1 MW of solar photovoltaic distributed energy systems located within a certain test area in Flagstaff, Arizona.  The pilot program is now complete and as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the participants have been transferred to the Solar Partner Program described below. Additionally, APS owns 13 MW of solar photovoltaic systems installed across Arizona through the ACC-approved Schools and Government Program.
11
Table of Contents

In December 2014, the ACC voted that it had no objection to APS implementing an APS-owned rooftop solar research and development program aimed at learning how to efficiently enable the integration of rooftop solar and battery storage with the grid.  The first stage of the program, called the “Solar Partner Program,” placed 8 MW of residential rooftop solar on strategically selected distribution feeders in an effort to maximize potential system benefits, as well as made systems available to limited-income customers who could not easily install solar through transactions with third parties. The second stage of the program, which included an additional 2 MW of rooftop solar and energy storage, placed two energy storage systems sized at 2 MW on two different high solar penetration feeders to test various grid-related operation improvements and system interoperability, and was in operation by the end of 2016. The costs for this program have been included in APS’s rate base as part of the 2017 Rate Case Decision.

In the 2017 Rate Case Decision, the ACC also approved the “APS Solar Communities” program. APS Solar Communities (formerly AZ Sun II) is a three-year program authorizing APS to spend $10 million to $15 million in capital costs each year to install utility-owned distributed generation systems on low to moderate income residential homes, non-profit entities, Title I schools and rural government facilities. The 2017 Rate Case Decision provided that all operations and maintenance expenses, property taxes, marketing and advertising expenses, and the capital carrying costs for this program will be recovered through the RES. Currently, APS has installed 9 MW of distributed generation systems under the APS Solar Communities program.

Energy Storage

APS deploys a number of advanced technologies on its system, including energy storage. Storage can provide capacity, improve power quality, be utilized for system regulation, integrate renewable generation, and, in certain circumstances, be used to defer certain traditional infrastructure investments. Energy storage can also aid in integrating higher levels of renewables by storing excess energy when system demand is low and renewable production is high and then releasing the stored energy during peak demand hours later in the day and after sunset. APS is utilizing grid-scale energy storage projects to benefit customers, to increase renewable utilization, and to further our understanding of how storage works with other advanced technologies and the grid. We are preparing for additional energy storage in the future.

In early 2018, APS entered into a 15-year power purchase agreement for a 65 MW solar facility that charges a 50 MW solar-fueled battery. Service under the agreement was scheduled to begin in 2021; however, APS terminated the agreement, effective February 16, 2021, because the facility will not meet the expected in-service date. In 2018, APS issued a request for proposal ("RFP") for approximately 106 MW of energy storage to be located at up to five of its AZ Sun sites. Based upon its evaluation of the RFP responses, APS decided to expand the initial phase of battery deployment to 141 MW by adding a sixth AZ Sun site. These battery storage facilities are expected to be in service by June 2022. Additionally, in February 2019, APS signed two 20-year power purchase agreements (“PPAs”) for energy storage totaling 150 MW. In April 2019, a battery module in APS’s McMicken battery energy storage facility experienced an equipment failure, which prompted an internal investigation to determine the cause. APS has now completed its investigation of the McMicken battery incident and is working with all counterparties to ensure that the learnings from the investigation, and the corresponding safety requirements, are incorporated into all battery storage projects going forward, including the projects associated with the two above-referenced PPAs. These PPAs were also subject to ACC approval in order to allow for cost recovery through the PSA. APS received the requested ACC approval on January 12, 2021, and service under both agreements is expected to begin in 2022.

12
Table of Contents
We currently plan to install at least 850 MW of energy storage by 2025, including the energy storage projects under PPAs and AZ Sun retrofits described above. The remaining energy storage is expected to be made up of resources solicited through current and future RFPs. Currently, APS has two RFPs in the market that seek energy storage resources: (i) a battery storage RFP for projects to be located at the remaining two AZ Sun sites that were not included in the 2018 RFP referenced in the preceding paragraph; and (ii) an ‘all source’ RFP that solicits both standalone energy storage and renewable energy plus energy storage resources. Such resources would be expected to be in service during 2023 and 2024.

Purchased Power Contracts

In addition to its own available generating capacity, APS purchases electricity under various arrangements, including long-term contracts and purchases through short-term markets to supplement its owned or leased generation and hedge its energy requirements.  A portion of APS’s purchased power expense is netted against wholesale sales on the Consolidated Statements of Income.  (See Note 16.)  APS continually assesses its need for additional capacity resources to assure system reliability. In addition, APS has also entered into several power purchase agreements for energy storage. (See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Energy Storage” above for details of our energy storage power purchase agreements.)

Purchased Power Capacity — APS’s purchased power capacity under long-term contracts as of December 31, 2020 is summarized in the table below.  All capacity values are based on net capacity unless otherwise noted.
														
Type	 	Dates Available	 	Capacity 
(MW)
Purchase Agreement (a)	 	Year-round through June 14, 2022	 	45 	
Exchange Agreement (b)	 	May 15 to September 15 annually through February 2021	 	480 	
Demand Response Agreement (c)	 	Summer seasons through 2025	 	75 	
Tolling Agreement		Summer seasons from Summer 2020 through Summer 2025		565 	
Tolling Agreement		June 1 through September 30, 2020-2026		570 	
Renewable Energy (d)	 	Various	 	626 	
Tolling Agreement		May 1 through October 31, 2021-2027		463 	
(a)Up to 45 MW of capacity is available; however, the amount of electricity available to APS under this agreement is based in large part on customer demand and is adjusted annually.
(b)This is a seasonal capacity exchange agreement under which APS receives electricity during the summer peak season (from May 15 to September 15) and APS returns a like amount of electricity during the winter season (from October 15 to February 15). This agreement expired on February 15, 2021.
(c)The capacity under this agreement is 60 MW in 2021 and 75 MW for years 2022 through 2025.
(d)Renewable energy purchased power agreements are described in detail below under “Current and Future Resources — Renewable Energy Standard — Renewable Energy Portfolio.”
13
Table of Contents
Current and Future Resources
 
Current Demand and Reserve Margin

Electric power demand is generally seasonal.  In Arizona, demand for power peaks during the hot summer months.  APS’s 2020 peak one-hour demand on its electric system was recorded on July 30, 2020 at 7,660 MW, compared to the 2019 peak of 7,115 MW recorded on August 5, 2019.  APS’s reserve margin at the time of the 2020 peak demand, calculated using system load serving capacity, was 19%.  For 2021, due to expiring purchased power contracts, APS is procuring market resources to maintain its minimum 15% planning reserve criteria.

Future Resources and Resource Plan

ACC rules require utilities to develop 15-year Integrated Resource Plans (“IRP”) which describe how the utility plans to serve customer load in the plan timeframe.  The ACC reviews each utility’s IRP to determine if it meets the necessary requirements and whether it should be acknowledged.  In March of 2018, the ACC reviewed the 2017 IRPs of its jurisdictional utilities and voted to not acknowledge any of the plans.  APS does not believe that this lack of acknowledgment will have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  Based on an ACC decision, APS was originally required to file its next IRP by April 1, 2020.  On February 20, 2020, the ACC extended the deadline for all utilities to file their IRPs from April 1, 2020 to June 26, 2020. On June 26, 2020, APS filed its final IRP. On July 15, 2020, the ACC extended the schedule for final ACC review of utility IRPs to February 2021.   The ACC has taken no action on APS’s IRP.

See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Clean Energy Focus Initiatives” and “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Energy Storage” above for information regarding future plans for energy storage. See “Business of Arizona Public Service Company — Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Coal-Fueled Generating Facilities” above for information regarding plans for Cholla, Four Corners and the Navajo Plant.

Energy Imbalance Market

In 2015, APS and the CAISO, the operator for the majority of California’s transmission grid, signed an agreement for APS to begin participation in the Energy Imbalance Market (“EIM”). APS’s participation in the EIM began on October 1, 2016.  The EIM allows for rebalancing supply and demand in 15-minute blocks, with dispatching every five minutes before the energy is needed, instead of the traditional one hour blocks. Participation in the EIM continues to be an effective tool for creating savings for APS’s customers from the real-time, voluntary market. APS continues to expect that its participation in EIM will lower its fuel and purchased-power costs, improve visibility and situational awareness for system operations in the Western Interconnection power grid, and improve integration of APS’s renewable resources. APS is in discussions with the EIM operator, CAISO, and other EIM participants about the feasibility of creating a voluntary day-ahead market to achieve more cost savings and use the region’s renewable resources more efficiently.

14
Table of Contents
Energy Modernization Plan

On July 30, 2020, the ACC Staff issued final draft energy rules, which proposed 100% of retail kWh sales from clean energy resources by the end of 2050. Nuclear is defined as a clean energy resource. The proposed rules also require 50% of retail energy served be renewable by the end of 2035. On October 14, 2020, the ACC passed one amendment to ACC Staff’s final draft energy rules that will require electric utilities to obtain 35% of peak load (as measured in 2020) by 2030 from DSM resources, including traditional energy efficiency, demand response and other programs aimed at reducing energy usage, peak demand management and load shifting. This standard aligns with the proposed rules’ three-year resource planning cycle and allows recovery of costs through existing mechanisms until the ACC issues a decision in a future rate proceeding. On October 29, 2020, the ACC approved an amendment that will require electric utilities to reduce their carbon emissions over 2016-2018 levels by 50% by 2032; 75% by 2040; and 100% by 2050. The ACC also approved an amendment which will require utilities to install energy storage systems with an aggregate capacity equal to 5% of each utility’s 2020 peak demand by 2035, of which 40% must be derived from customer-owned or customer-leased distributed storage. Another approved amendment modifies the resource planning process, including requirements for the ACC to approve a utility’s load forecast and resource plan, and for a utility to perform an all-source request for information to guide its resource plan. On November 13, 2020, the ACC approved a final draft energy rules package, and additional procedural steps in the rulemaking process are required to be completed before the rules may take effect. APS cannot predict the outcome of this matter. (See Note 4 for additional information related to these energy rules.)

Renewable Energy Standard

In 2006, the ACC adopted the RES.  Under the RES, electric utilities that are regulated by the ACC must supply an increasing percentage of their retail electric energy sales from eligible renewable resources, including solar, wind, biomass, biogas and geothermal technologies.  The renewable energy requirement is 11% of retail electric sales in 2021 and increases annually until it reaches 15% in 2025. 
    
A component of the RES is focused on stimulating development of distributed energy systems.  Accordingly, under the RES, an increasing percentage of that requirement must be supplied from distributed energy resources.  This distributed energy requirement is 30% of the overall RES requirement of 11% in 2021. On September 23, 2020, the ACC approved the 2020 RES Implementation Plan. On July 1, 2020, APS filed its 2021 RES Implementation Plan. The following table summarizes the RES requirement standard and its timing:
														
 		2021		2025
RES (inclusive of distributed energy) as a % of retail electric sales		11%		15%
Percent of RES to be supplied from distributed energy resources		30%		30%

On April 21, 2015, the RES rules were amended to require utilities to report on all eligible renewable resources in their service territory, irrespective of whether the utility owns renewable energy credits associated with such renewable energy. The rules allow the ACC to consider such information in determining whether APS has satisfied the requirements of the RES.

15
Table of Contents
Renewable Energy Portfolio.  To date, APS has a diverse portfolio of existing and planned renewable resources totaling 2,106 MW, including solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and biogas.  Of this portfolio, 1,956 MW are currently in operation and 150 MW are under contract for development or are under construction.  Renewable resources in operation include 245 MW of facilities owned by APS, 626 MW of long-term purchased power agreements, and an estimated 1,085 MW of customer-sited, third-party owned distributed energy resources.
 
APS’s strategy to achieve its RES requirements includes executing purchased power contracts for new facilities, ongoing development of distributed energy resources and procurement of new facilities to be owned by APS.  See “Energy Sources and Resource Planning — Generation Facilities — Solar Facilities” above for information regarding APS-owned solar facilities.

The following table summarizes APS’s renewable energy sources currently in operation and under development as of December 31, 2020.  Agreements for the development and completion of future resources are subject to various conditions, including successful siting, permitting and interconnection of the projects to the electric grid.
16
Table of Contents
																																
 		Location		
Actual/
 Target
Commercial
Operation
Date
		Term
(Years)		
Net
 Capacity
 In Operation
(MW AC)
		
Net Capacity
 Planned/Under
Development
(MW AC)
APS Owned		 		 		 		 		 
Solar:		 		 		 		 		 
AZ Sun Program:		 		 		 		 		 
Paloma		Gila Bend, AZ		2011		 		17 			 
Cotton Center		Gila Bend, AZ		2011		 		17 			 
Hyder Phase 1		Hyder, AZ		2011		 		11 			 
Hyder Phase 2		Hyder, AZ		2012		 		5 			 
Chino Valley		Chino Valley, AZ		2012		 		19 			 
Hyder II		Hyder, AZ		2013		 		14 			 
Foothills		Yuma, AZ		2013		 		35 			 
Gila Bend		Gila Bend, AZ		2014		 		32 			
Luke AFB		Glendale, AZ		2015				10 			
Desert Star		Buckeye, AZ		2015				10 			
Subtotal AZ Sun Program		 		 		 		170 			— 	
Multiple Facilities		AZ		Various		 		4 			 
Red Rock		Red Rock, AZ		2016				40 			
Distributed Energy:		 		 		 		 		 
APS Owned (a)		AZ		Various		 		31 			
Total APS Owned		 		 		 		245 			— 	
Purchased Power Agreements		 		 		 		 		 
Solar:		 		 		 		 		 
Solana		Gila Bend, AZ		2013		30 			250 			 
RE Ajo		Ajo, AZ		2011		25 			5 			 
Sun E AZ 1		Prescott, AZ		2011		30 			10 			 
Saddle Mountain		Tonopah, AZ		2012		30 			15 			 
Badger		Tonopah, AZ		2013		30 			15 			 
Gillespie		Maricopa County, AZ		2013		30 			15 			 
Wind:		 		 		 		 		 
Aragonne Mesa (b)		Santa Rosa, NM		2022		20 			90 			110 	
High Lonesome		Mountainair, NM		2009		30 			100 			 
Perrin Ranch Wind		Williams, AZ		2012		25 			99 			 
Geothermal:		 		 		 		 		 
Salton Sea		Imperial County, CA		2006		23 			10 			 
Biomass:		 		 		 		 		 
Snowflake		Snowflake, AZ		2008		15 			14 			 
Biogas:		 		 		 		 		 
NW Regional Landfill		Surprise, AZ		2012		20 			3 			 
Total Purchased Power Agreements		 		 		 		626 			110 	
Distributed Energy		 		 		 		 		 
Solar (c)
		 		 		 		 		 
Third-party Owned		AZ		Various		 		1,052 			40 	
Agreement 1		Bagdad, AZ		2011		25 			15 			 
Agreement 2		AZ		2011-2012		20-21		18 			 
Total Distributed Energy		 		 		 		1,085 			40 	
Total Renewable Portfolio		 		 		 		1,956 			150 	
17
Table of Contents
(a)Includes Flagstaff Community Power Project, APS School and Government Program, APS Solar Partner Program, and APS Solar Communities Program.
(b)Includes 90 MW wind power purchase agreement that was in operation until 2021. As a result of a power purchase agreement executed in September 2020, this will be decommissioned in 2021 and rebuilt in the same year, together with an additional 110 MW, for a total of 200 MW.
(c)Includes rooftop solar facilities owned by third parties. Distributed generation is produced in DC and is converted to AC for reporting purposes.

APS also issued two RFPs in September 2019. The first RFP sought competitive proposals for up to 150 MW of APS-owned solar resources. This solar generation will be designed with the flexibility to add energy storage as a future option. Negotiations pursuant to this RFP are ongoing, with results expected in the first quarter of 2021 and project in-service expected by the end of 2022. A second RFP requested up to 250 MW of wind resources to be in service as soon as possible, but no later than 2022. As a result of this RFP, APS executed a 200 MW power purchase agreement for a wind resource that is expected to be in service in the fourth quarter of 2021. In December 2020, APS issued two additional RFPs: one to acquire both renewable energy and additional peaking capacity resources, and the other to install more battery energy storage at two existing APS solar plants.

Demand Side Management

On January 1, 2011, Arizona regulators adopted an EES of 22% cumulative annual energy savings by 2020 to increase energy efficiency and other demand side management programs encouraging customers to conserve energy, while incentivizing utilities to aid in these efforts that ultimately reduce the demand for energy. APS achieved the 22% EES in 2020. (See Note 4 for information regarding energy efficiency, other DSM obligations and the Energy Modernization Plan.)

Competitive Environment and Regulatory Oversight
 
Retail
 
The ACC regulates APS’s retail electric rates and its issuance of securities.  The ACC must also approve any significant transfer or encumbrance of APS’s property used to provide retail electric service and approve or receive prior notification of certain transactions between Pinnacle West, APS and their respective affiliates. (See Note 4 for information regarding ACC’s regulation of APS’s retail electric rates.)
 
APS is subject to varying degrees of competition from other investor-owned electric and gas utilities in Arizona (such as Southwest Gas Corporation), as well as cooperatives, municipalities, electrical districts and similar types of governmental or non-profit organizations.  In addition, some customers, particularly industrial and large commercial customers, may own and operate generation facilities to meet some or all of their own energy requirements.  This practice is becoming more popular with customers installing or having installed products such as rooftop solar panels to meet or supplement their energy needs.
 
On May 9, 2013, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona.  The ACC subsequently opened a docket for this matter and received comments from a number of interested parties on the considerations involved in establishing retail electric deregulation in the state.  One of these considerations was whether various aspects of a deregulated market, including setting
18
Table of Contents
utility rates on a “market” basis, would be consistent with the requirements of the Arizona Constitution.  On September 11, 2013, after receiving legal advice from the ACC staff, the ACC voted 4-1 to close the current docket and await full Arizona Constitutional authority before any further examination of this matter.  The motion approved by the ACC also included opening one or more new dockets in the future to explore options to offer more rate choices to customers and innovative changes within the existing cost-of-service regulatory model that could include elements of competition.  The ACC opened a docket on November 4, 2013 to explore technological advances and innovative changes within the electric utility industry.  A series of workshops in this docket were held in 2014 and another in February of 2015.

On November 17, 2018, the ACC voted to re-examine the facilitation of a deregulated retail electric market in Arizona. An ACC special open meeting workshop was held on December 3, 2018. No substantive action was taken, but interested parties were asked to submit written comments and respond to a list of questions from ACC Staff. On July 1 and July 2, 2019, ACC Staff issued a report and initial proposed draft rules regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules. Interested parties filed comments to the ACC Staff report and a stakeholder meeting and workshop to discuss the retail electric competition rules was held on July 30, 2019. ACC Commissioners submitted additional questions regarding this matter. On February 10, 2020, two ACC Commissioners filed two sets of draft proposed retail electric competition rules. On February 12, 2020, ACC Staff issued its second report regarding possible modifications to the ACC’s retail electric competition rules. The ACC held a workshop on February 25-26, 2020 on further consideration and discussion of the retail electric competition rules. During a July 15, 2020 ACC Staff meeting, the ACC Commissioners discussed the possible development of a retail competition pilot program, but no action was taken. The ACC Commissioners are continuing to explore the retail electric competition rules. APS cannot predict whether these efforts will result in any changes and, if changes to the rules results, what impact these rules would have on APS.

Wholesale
 
FERC regulates rates for wholesale power sales and transmission services.  (See Note 4 for information regarding APS’s transmission rates.)  During 2020, approximately 4.4% of APS’s electric operating revenues resulted from such sales and services.  APS’s wholesale activity primarily consists of managing fuel and purchased power supplies to serve retail customer energy requirements.  APS also sells, in the wholesale market, its generation output that is not needed for APS’s Native Load and, in doing so, competes with other utilities, power marketers and independent power producers.  Additionally, subject to specified parameters, APS hedges both electricity and natural gas.  The majority of these activities are undertaken to mitigate risk in APS’s portfolio.

Transmission and Delivery 

APS continues to work closely with customers, stakeholders, and regulators to identify and plan for transmission needs that support new customers, system reliability, access to markets and clean energy development.  The capital expenditures table presented in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes new APS transmission projects, along with other transmission costs for upgrades and replacements, including those for data center development.  APS is also working to establish and expand advanced grid technologies throughout its service territory to provide long-term benefits both to APS and its customers.  APS is strategically deploying a variety of technologies that are intended to allow customers to better manage their energy usage, minimize system outage durations and frequency, enable customer choice for
19
Table of Contents
new customer sited technologies, and facilitate greater cost savings to APS through improved reliability and the automation of certain distribution functions.

Environmental Matters

Climate Change

Legislative Initiatives. There have been no recent successful attempts by Congress to pass legislation that would regulate GHG emissions, and it is unclear at this time whether climate-change related legislation originating from the 117th Congress will be considered in the Senate and then signed into law by President Biden. In the event climate change legislation ultimately passes, the actual economic and operational impact of such legislation on APS depends on a variety of factors, none of which can be fully known until a law is written, enacted, and the specifics of the resulting program are established. These factors include the terms of the legislation with regard to allowed GHG emissions; the cost to reduce emissions; in the event a cap-and-trade program is established, whether any permitted emissions allowances will be allocated to source operators free of cost or auctioned (and, if so, the cost of those allowances in the marketplace) and whether offsets and other measures to moderate the costs of compliance will be available; and, in the event of a carbon tax, the amount of the tax per pound of carbon dioxide (“CO2”) equivalent emitted.

In addition to federal legislative initiatives, state-specific initiatives may also impact our business. While Arizona has no pending legislation and no proposed agency rule regulating GHGs in Arizona at this time, the California legislature enacted AB 32 and SB 1368 in 2006 to address GHG emissions. In October 2011, the California Air Resources Board approved final regulations that established a state-wide cap on GHG emissions beginning on January 1, 2013 and established a GHG allowance trading program under that cap. The first phase of the program, which applies to, among other entities, importers of electricity, commenced on January 1, 2013. Under the program, entities selling electricity into California, including APS, must hold carbon allowances to cover GHG emissions associated with electricity sales into California from outside the state. APS is authorized to recover the cost of these carbon allowances through the PSA.

Regulatory Initiatives. In 2009, EPA determined that GHG emissions endanger public health and welfare. As a result of this “endangerment finding,” EPA determined that the Clean Air Act required new regulatory requirements for new and modified major GHG emitting sources, including power plants. APS will generally be required to consider the impact of GHG emissions as part of its traditional New Source Review (“NSR”) analysis for new major sources and major modifications to existing plants.

On June 19, 2019, EPA took final action on its proposals to repeal EPA’s 2015 Clean Power Plan (“CPP”) and replace those regulations with a new rule, the Affordable Clean Energy (“ACE”) regulations. EPA originally finalized the CPP on August 3, 2015, and such rules would have had far broader impact on the electric power sector than the ACE regulations. The ACE regulations had been stayed pending judicial review and on January 19, 2021, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit vacated the ACE regulations and remanded them back to EPA to develop new existing power plant carbon regulations consistent with the court’s ruling. That ruling endorsed an expansive view of the federal Clean Air Act consistent with EPA’s 2015 CPP. While the Biden administration has expressed an intent to regulate carbon emissions in this sector more aggressively under the Clean Air Act, we cannot at this time predict the outcome of pending EPA rulemaking proceedings in response to the court’s recent ACE decision.

Other environmental rules that could involve material compliance costs include those related to effluent limitations, the ozone national ambient air quality standard and other rules or matters involving the
20
Table of Contents
Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), Superfund, the Navajo Nation, and water supplies for our power plants. The financial impact of complying with current and future environmental rules could jeopardize the economic viability of our coal plants or the willingness or ability of power plant participants to fund any required equipment upgrades or continue their participation in these plants. The economics of continuing to own certain resources, particularly our coal plants, may deteriorate, warranting early retirement of those plants, which may result in asset impairments. APS would seek recovery in rates for the book value of any remaining investments in the plants as well as other costs related to early retirement, but cannot predict whether it would obtain such recovery.
    
EPA Environmental Regulation

Regional Haze Rules. In 1999, EPA announced regional haze rules to reduce visibility impairment in national parks and wilderness areas. The rules require states (or, for sources located on tribal land, EPA) to determine what pollution control technologies constitute the BART for certain older major stationary sources, including fossil-fired power plants. EPA subsequently issued the Clean Air Visibility Rule, which provides guidelines on how to perform a BART analysis. Final regulations imposing BART requirements have now been imposed on each APS coal-fired power plant. Four Corners was required to install new pollution controls to comply with BART, while similar pollution control installation requirements were not necessary for Cholla.

Cholla. In early 2017, EPA approved a final rule containing a revision to Arizona’s State Implementation Plan (“SIP”) for Cholla that implemented BART requirements for this facility, which did not require the installation of any new pollution control capital improvements. In conjunction with the closure of Cholla Unit 2 in 2015, APS has committed to ceasing coal combustion within Units 1 and 3 by April 2025. PacifiCorp retired Cholla Unit 4 at the end of 2020. (See “Cholla” in Note 4 for information regarding future plans for Cholla and details related to the resulting regulatory asset.)
    
Four Corners. Based on EPA’s final standards, APS’s 63% share of the cost of required BART controls for Four Corners Units 4 and 5 was approximately $400 million, which has been incurred.  (See Note 4 for information regarding the related rate recovery.) In addition, APS and El Paso entered into an asset purchase agreement providing for the purchase by APS, or an affiliate of APS, of El Paso’s 7% interest in Four Corners Units 4 and 5. 4CA purchased the El Paso interest on July 6, 2016. NTEC purchased the interest from 4CA on July 3, 2018. (See “Four Corners — 4CA Matter” in Note 11 for a discussion of the NTEC purchase.) The cost of the pollution controls related to the 7% interest is approximately $45 million, which was assumed by NTEC through its purchase of the 7% interest.

Coal Combustion Waste. On December 19, 2014, EPA issued its final regulations governing the handling and disposal of CCR, such as fly ash and bottom ash. The rule regulates CCR as a non-hazardous waste under Subtitle D of the RCRA and establishes national minimum criteria for existing and new CCR landfills and surface impoundments and all lateral expansions. These criteria include standards governing location restrictions, design and operating criteria, groundwater monitoring and corrective action, closure requirements and post closure care, and recordkeeping, notification, and internet posting requirements. The rule generally requires any existing unlined CCR surface impoundment to stop receiving CCR and either retrofit or close, and further requires the closure of any CCR landfill or surface impoundment that cannot meet the applicable performance criteria for location restrictions or structural integrity. Such closure requirements are deemed “forced closure” or “closure for cause” of unlined surface impoundments, and are the subject of recent regulatory and judicial activities described below.

21
Table of Contents
Since these regulations were finalized, EPA has taken steps to substantially modify the federal rules governing CCR disposal. While certain changes have been prompted by utility industry petitions, others have resulted from judicial review, court-approved settlements with environmental groups, and statutory changes to RCRA. The following lists the pending regulatory changes that, if finalized, could have a material impact as to how APS manages CCR at its coal-fired power plants:
•Following the passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act in 2016, EPA possesses authority to, either, authorize states to develop their own permit programs for CCR management or issue federal permits governing CCR disposal both in states without their own permit programs and on tribal lands. Although ADEQ has taken steps to develop a CCR permitting program, it is not clear when that program will be put into effect. On December 19, 2019, EPA proposed its own set of regulations governing the issuance of CCR management permits.
•On March 1, 2018, as a result of a settlement with certain environmental groups, EPA proposed adding boron to the list of constituents that trigger corrective action requirements to remediate groundwater impacted by CCR disposal activities. Apart from a subsequent proposal issued on August 14, 2019 to add a specific, health-based groundwater protection standard for boron, EPA has yet to take action on this proposal.
•Based on an August 21, 2018 D.C. Circuit decision, which vacated and remanded those provisions of the EPA CCR regulations that allow for the operation of unlined CCR surface impoundments, EPA recently proposed corresponding changes to federal CCR regulations. On July 29, 2020, EPA took final action on new regulations establishing revised deadlines for initiating the closure of unlined CCR surface impoundments; such disposal units must close as soon as technically feasible, but no later than April 22, 2021.
•On November 4, 2019, EPA also proposed to change the manner by which facilities that have committed to cease burning coal in the near-term may qualify for alternative closure. Such qualification would allow CCR disposal units at these plants to continue operating, even though they would otherwise be subject to forced closure under the federal CCR regulations. EPA’s July 29, 2020 final regulation adopted this proposal and now requires explicit EPA approval for facilities to utilize an alternative closure deadline. With respect to the Cholla facility, APS’s application for alternative closure (which would allow the continued disposal of CCR within the facility’s existing unlined CCR surface impoundments until the required date for ceasing coal-fired boiler operations in April 2025) was submitted to EPA on November 30, 2020 and is currently pending. This application will be subject to public comment and, potentially, judicial review.

We cannot at this time predict the outcome of these regulatory proceedings or when the EPA will take final action on those matters that are still pending. Depending on the eventual outcome, the costs associated with APS’s management of CCR could materially increase, which could affect APS’s financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

APS currently disposes of CCR in ash ponds and dry storage areas at Cholla and Four Corners. APS estimates that its share of incremental costs to comply with the CCR rule for Four Corners is approximately $27 million and its share of incremental costs to comply with the CCR rule for Cholla is approximately $16 million. The Navajo Plant disposed of CCR only in a dry landfill storage area. To comply with the CCR rule for the Navajo Plant, APS’s share of incremental costs was approximately $1 million, which has been incurred. Additionally, the CCR rule requires ongoing, phased groundwater monitoring.

22
Table of Contents
As of October 2018, APS has completed the statistical analyses for its CCR disposal units that triggered assessment monitoring. APS determined that several of its CCR disposal units at Cholla and Four Corners will need to undergo corrective action. In addition, under the current regulations, all such disposal units must have ceased operating and initiated closure by October 31, 2020. APS initiated an assessment of corrective measures on January 14, 2019 and expects such assessment will continue through mid- to late-2021. As part of this assessment, APS continues to gather additional groundwater data and perform remedial evaluations as to the CCR disposal units at Cholla and Four Corners undergoing corrective action. In addition, APS will solicit input from the public, host public hearings, and select remedies as part of this process. Based on the work performed to date, APS currently estimates that its share of corrective action and monitoring costs at Four Corners will likely range from $10 million to $15 million, which would be incurred over 30 years. The analysis needed to perform a similar cost estimate for Cholla remains ongoing at this time. As APS continues to implement the CCR rule’s corrective action assessment process, the current cost estimates may change. Given uncertainties that may exist until we have fully completed the corrective action assessment process, we cannot predict any ultimate impacts to the Company; however, at this time we do not believe the cost estimates for Cholla and any potential change to the cost estimate for Four Corners would have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Effluent Limitation Guidelines. On September 30, 2015, EPA finalized revised effluent limitation guidelines (“ELG”) establishing technology-based wastewater discharge limitations for fossil-fired EGUs.  EPA’s final regulation targets metals and other pollutants in wastewater streams originating from fly ash and bottom ash handling activities, scrubber activities, and coal ash disposal leachate.  Based upon an earlier set of preferred alternatives, the final effluent limitations generally require chemical precipitation and biological treatment for flue gas desulfurization scrubber wastewater, “zero discharge” from fly ash and bottom ash handling, and impoundment for coal ash disposal leachate. 

On August 11, 2017, EPA announced that it would be initiating rulemaking proceedings to potentially revise the September 2015 effluent limitation guidelines. On September 18, 2017, EPA finalized a regulation postponing the earliest date on which compliance with the effluent limitation guidelines for these waste-streams would be required from November 1, 2018 until November 1, 2020. At this time, APS’s National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) discharge permit for Four Corners contains a December 31, 2023 compliance deadline for achieving “zero discharge” of bottom ash transport waters. Nonetheless, on October 13, 2020, EPA published a final rule relaxing these “zero discharge” limitations for bottom ash handling water and allowing for approximately 10% of such wastewater to be discharged (on a volumetric, 30-day rolling average basis) under limited power plant operating scenarios. At this time, APS is pursuing a modification to the Four Corners NPDES discharge permit in order to implement the most recent ELG rulemaking. We cannot at this time predict the outcome of this permit modification proceeding, including any public commenting or permit appeal procedures. The Cholla facility does not require NPDES permitting.

Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards. On October 1, 2015, EPA finalized revisions to the primary ground-level ozone national ambient air quality standards (“NAAQS”) at a level of 70 parts per billion (“ppb”).  Further, on December 23, 2020, EPA issued a final regulation retaining the current primary NAAQS for ozone, following a required scientific review process. With ozone standards becoming more stringent, our fossil generation units will come under increasing pressure to reduce emissions of NOx and volatile organic compounds, and to generate emission offsets for new projects or facility expansions located in ozone nonattainment areas.  EPA was expected to designate attainment and nonattainment areas relative to the new 70 ppb standard by October 1, 2017.  While EPA took action designating attainment and unclassifiable areas on November 6, 2017, the Agency’s final action
23
Table of Contents
designating non-attainment areas was not issued until April 30, 2018. At that time, EPA designated the geographic areas containing Yuma and Phoenix, Arizona as in non-attainment with the 2015 70 ppb ozone NAAQS. The vast majority of APS’s natural gas-fired EGUs are located in these jurisdictions. Areas of Arizona and the Navajo Nation where the remainder of APS’s fossil-fuel fired EGU fleet is located were designated as in attainment. We anticipate that revisions to the SIPs and FIPs implementing required controls to achieve the new 70 ppb standard will be in place between 2023 and 2024.  At this time, because proposed SIPs and FIPs implementing the revised ozone NAAQSs have yet to be released, APS is unable to predict what impact the adoption of these standards may have on the Company. APS will continue to monitor these standards as they are implemented within the jurisdictions affecting APS.

Superfund-Related Matters. The Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA” or “Superfund”) establishes liability for the cleanup of hazardous substances found contaminating the soil, water or air.  Those who released, generated, transported to or disposed of hazardous substances at a contaminated site are among the parties who are potentially responsible (“PRPs”). PRPs may be strictly, and often are jointly and severally, liable for clean-up. On September 3, 2003, EPA advised APS that EPA considers APS to be a PRP in the Motorola 52nd Street Superfund Site, Operable Unit 3 (“OU3”) in Phoenix, Arizona. APS has facilities that are within this Superfund site. APS and Pinnacle West have agreed with EPA to perform certain investigative activities of the APS facilities within OU3. In addition, on September 23, 2009, APS agreed with EPA and one other PRP to voluntarily assist with the funding and management of the site-wide groundwater remedial investigation and feasibility study (“RI/FS”). Based upon discussions between the OU3 working group parties and EPA, along with the results of recent technical analyses prepared by the OU3 working group to supplement the RI/FS for OU3, APS anticipates finalizing the RI/FS during the first or second quarter of 2021. We estimate that our costs related to this investigation and study will be approximately $3 million. We anticipate incurring additional expenditures in the future, but because the overall investigation is not complete and ultimate remediation requirements are not yet finalized, at the present time, expenditures related to this matter cannot be reasonably estimated.

On August 6, 2013, the Roosevelt Irrigation District (“RID”) filed a lawsuit in Arizona District Court against APS and 24 other defendants, alleging that RID’s groundwater wells were contaminated by the release of hazardous substances from facilities owned or operated by the defendants.  The lawsuit also alleges that, under Superfund laws, the defendants are jointly and severally liable to RID.  The allegations against APS arise out of APS’s current and former ownership of facilities in and around OU3.  As part of a state governmental investigation into groundwater contamination in this area, on January 25, 2015, ADEQ sent a letter to APS seeking information concerning the degree to which, if any, APS’s current and former ownership of these facilities may have contributed to groundwater contamination in this area.  APS responded to ADEQ on May 4, 2015. On December 16, 2016, two RID environmental and engineering contractors filed an ancillary lawsuit for recovery of costs against APS and the other defendants in the RID litigation. That same day, another RID service provider filed an additional ancillary CERCLA lawsuit against certain of the defendants in the main RID litigation, but excluded APS and certain other parties as named defendants. Because the ancillary lawsuits concern past costs allegedly incurred by these RID vendors, which were ruled unrecoverable directly by RID in November of 2016, the additional lawsuits do not increase APS’s exposure or risk related to these matters.

On April 5, 2018, RID and the defendants in that particular litigation executed a settlement agreement, fully resolving RID’s CERCLA claims concerning both past and future cost recovery. APS’s share of this settlement was immaterial. In addition, the two environmental and engineering vendors voluntarily dismissed their lawsuit against APS and the other named defendants without prejudice. An order to this effect was entered on April 17, 2018. With this disposition of the case, the vendors may file
24
Table of Contents
their lawsuit again in the future. On August 16, 2019, Maricopa County, one of the three direct defendants in the service provider lawsuit, filed a third-party complaint seeking contribution for its liability, if any, from APS and 28 other third-party defendants. We are unable to predict the outcome of these matters; however, we do not expect the outcome to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Manufactured Gas Plant Sites. Certain properties which APS now owns or which were previously owned by it or its corporate predecessors were at one time sites of, or sites associated with, manufactured gas plants. APS is taking action to voluntarily remediate these sites. APS does not expect these matters to have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

Four Corners National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit

On July 16, 2018, several environmental groups filed a petition for review before the EPA Environmental Appeals Board (“EAB”) concerning the NPDES wastewater discharge permit for Four Corners, which was reissued on June 12, 2018. The environmental groups allege that the permit was reissued in contravention of several requirements under the Clean Water Act and did not contain required provisions concerning EPA’s 2015 revised effluent limitation guidelines for steam-electric EGUs, 2014 existing-source regulations governing cooling-water intake structures, and effluent limits for surface seepage and subsurface discharges from coal-ash disposal facilities. To address certain of these issues through a reconsidered permit, EPA took action on December 19, 2018 to withdraw the NPDES permit reissued in June 2018. Withdrawal of the permit moots the EAB appeal, and EPA filed a motion to dismiss on that basis. The EAB thereafter dismissed the environmental group appeal on February 12, 2019. EPA then issued a revised final NPDES permit for Four Corners on September 30, 2019. Based upon a November 1, 2019 filing by several environmental groups, the EAB again took up review of the Four Corners NPDES Permit. Oral argument on this appeal was held on September 3, 2020 and the EAB denied the environmental group petition on September 30, 2020. On January 22, 2021, the environmental groups filed a petition for review of the EAB’s decision with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. We cannot predict the outcome of these appeal proceedings and, if such appeal is successful, whether that outcome will have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Water Supply

Assured supplies of water are important for APS’s generating plants. At the present time, APS has adequate water to meet its operating needs. The Four Corners region, in which Four Corners is located, has historically experienced drought conditions that may affect the water supply for the plants if adequate moisture is not received in the watershed that supplies the area. However, during the past 12 months the region has received snowfall and precipitation sufficient to recover the Navajo Reservoir to an optimum operating level, reducing the probability of shortage in future years. Although the watershed and reservoirs are in a good condition at this time, APS is continuing to work with area stakeholders to implement agreements to minimize the effect, if any, on future drought conditions that could have an impact on operations of its plants.

Conflicting claims to limited amounts of water in the southwestern United States have resulted in numerous court actions, which, in addition to future supply conditions, have the potential to impact APS’s operations.

25
Table of Contents
San Juan River Adjudication. Both groundwater and surface water in areas important to APS’s operations have been the subject of inquiries, claims, and legal proceedings, which will require a number of years to resolve. APS is one of a number of parties in a proceeding, filed March 13, 1975, before the Eleventh Judicial District Court in New Mexico to adjudicate rights to a stream system from which water for Four Corners is derived. An agreement reached with the Navajo Nation in 1985, however, provides that if Four Corners loses a portion of its rights in the adjudication, the Navajo Nation will provide, for an agreed upon cost, sufficient water from its allocation to offset the loss. In addition, APS is a party to a water contract that allows the company to secure water for Four Corners in the event of a water shortage and is a party to a shortage sharing agreement, which provides for the apportionment of water supplies to Four Corners in the event of a water shortage in the San Juan River Basin.

Gila River Adjudication. A summons served on APS in early 1986 required all water claimants in the Lower Gila River Watershed in Arizona to assert any claims to water on or before January 20, 1987, in an action pending in Arizona Superior Court. Palo Verde is located within the geographic area subject to the summons. APS’s rights and the rights of the other Palo Verde participants to the use of groundwater and effluent at Palo Verde are potentially at issue in this adjudication. As operating agent of Palo Verde, APS filed claims that dispute the court’s jurisdiction over the Palo Verde participants’ groundwater rights and their contractual rights to effluent relating to Palo Verde. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. Several of APS’s other power plants are also located within the geographic area subject to the summons, including a number of gas-fired power plants located within Maricopa and Pinal Counties. In November 1999, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision confirming that certain groundwater rights may be available to the federal government and Indian tribes. In addition, in September 2000, the Arizona Supreme Court issued a decision affirming the lower court’s criteria for resolving groundwater claims. Litigation on both of these issues has continued in the trial court. In December 2005, APS and other parties filed a petition with the Arizona Supreme Court requesting interlocutory review of a September 2005 trial court order regarding procedures for determining whether groundwater pumping is affecting surface water rights. The Arizona Supreme Court denied the petition in May 2007, and the trial court is now proceeding with implementation of its 2005 order. No trial date concerning APS’s water rights claims has been set in this matter.

At this time, the lower court proceedings in the Gila River adjudication are in the process of determining the specific hydro-geologic testing protocols for determining which groundwater wells located outside of the subflow zone of the Gila River should be subject to the adjudication court’s jurisdiction. A hearing to determine this jurisdictional test question was held in March of 2018 in front of a special master, and a draft decision based on the evidence heard during that hearing was issued on May 17, 2018. The decision of the special master, which was finalized on November 14, 2018, but which is subject to further review by the trial court judge, accepts the proposed hydro-geologic testing protocols supported by APS and other industrial users of groundwater. A final decision by the trial court judge in this matter remains pending. Further proceedings have been initiated to determine the specific hydro-geologic testing protocols for subflow depletion determinations. The determinations made in this final stage of the proceedings may ultimately govern the adjudication of rights for parties, such as APS, that rely on groundwater extraction to support their industrial operations. APS cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings.

26
Table of Contents
Little Colorado River Adjudication. APS has filed claims to water in the Little Colorado River Watershed in Arizona in an action pending in the Apache County, Arizona, Superior Court, which was originally filed on September 5, 1985. APS’s groundwater resource utilized at Cholla is within the geographic area subject to the adjudication and, therefore, is potentially at issue in the case. APS’s claims dispute the court’s jurisdiction over its groundwater rights. Alternatively, APS seeks confirmation of such rights. No trial or pretrial proceedings have been scheduled for adjudication of APS’s water right claims. The adjudication court is currently conducting a trial of federal reserved water right claims asserted by the Hopi Tribe and by the United States as trustee for the Tribe. In addition, the adjudication court has established a schedule for consideration of separate federal reserved water right claims asserted by the Navajo Nation and by the United States as trustee for the Nation. There is no established timeframe within which the adjudication court is expected to issue a final determination of water rights for the Hopi Tribe and the Navajo Nation and any such final determination is likely to occur multiple years in the future.

Although the above matters remain subject to further evaluation, APS does not expect that the described litigation will have a material adverse impact on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

BUSINESS OF OTHER SUBSIDIARIES

Bright Canyon Energy

On July 31, 2014, Pinnacle West announced its creation of a wholly-owned subsidiary, BCE.  BCE’s strategy is to develop, own, operate and acquire energy infrastructure in a manner that leverages the Company’s core expertise in the electric energy industry.  In 2014, BCE formed a 50/50 joint venture with BHE U.S. Transmission LLC, a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Energy Company.  The joint venture, named TransCanyon, is pursuing independent electric transmission opportunities within the 11 states that comprise the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, excluding opportunities related to transmission service that would otherwise be provided under the tariffs of the retail service territories of the venture partners’ utility affiliates. As of December 31, 2020, BCE had total assets of approximately $27 million.

On December 20, 2019, BCE acquired minority ownership positions in two wind farms under development by Tenaska Energy, Inc. and Tenaska Energy Holdings, LLC, the 242 MW Clear Creek wind farm in Missouri (“Clear Creek”) and the 250 MW Nobles 2 wind farm in Minnesota (“Nobles 2”). Clear Creek achieved commercial operation in May 2020 and Nobles 2 achieved commercial operation in December 2020. Both wind farms deliver power under long-term power purchase agreements. BCE indirectly owns 9.9% of Clear Creek and 5.1% of Nobles 2.

El Dorado
 
El Dorado is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle West. El Dorado owns debt investments and minority interests in several energy-related investments and Arizona community-based ventures.  El Dorado’s short-term goal is to prudently realize the value of its existing investments.  As of December 31, 2020, El Dorado had total assets of approximately $16 million. El Dorado committed to a $25 million investment in the Energy Impact Partners fund, which is an organization that focuses on fostering innovation and supporting the transformation of the utility industry. The investment will be made by El Dorado as investments are selected by the Energy Impact Partners fund.

27
Table of Contents
Other Information

Pinnacle West, APS and El Dorado are all incorporated in the State of Arizona.  BCE and 4CA are incorporated in Delaware. Additional information for each of these companies is provided below:
																				
 		Principal Executive Office
Address		Year of
Incorporation		Approximate
Number of
Employees at
December 31, 2020
Pinnacle West		400 North Fifth Street
Phoenix, AZ 85004		1985		88 	
APS		400 North Fifth Street
P.O. Box 53999
Phoenix, AZ 85072-3999		1920		5,933 	
BCE		400 East Van Buren
Phoenix, AZ 85004		2014		5 	
El Dorado		400 East Van Buren
Phoenix, AZ 85004		1983		— 	
4CA		400 North Fifth Street
Phoenix, AZ 85004		2016		— 	
Total		 		 		6,026 	
 
The APS number includes employees at jointly-owned generating facilities (approximately 2,304 employees) for which APS serves as the generating facility manager.  Approximately 1,263 APS employees are union employees, represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (“IBEW”). In March 2020, the Company concluded negotiations with the IBEW and approved a three-year extension of the contract set to expire on April 1, 2020.  Under the extension, union members received wage increases for 2020, 2021 and 2022; there were no other changes. The current contract expires on April 1, 2023.

Human Capital

The Company seeks to attract the best employees, to retain those employees and to create a safe, inclusive and productive work environment for all employees. We believe the strength of our employees is one of the significant contributors to our Company’s success. Human capital measures and objectives that the Company focuses on in managing its business include the safety of its employees, diversity and inclusion, succession planning, hiring and retention of talent, compensation and benefits and employee engagement.

COVID-19

The health, well-being and safety of our employees, customers and communities is our top priority. In March 2020, we began operating under our long-standing pandemic and business continuity plans to address COVID-19. We had regular COVID-19 planning sessions to address the safety, operational and business risks associated with the pandemic. By the middle of March 2020, we successfully transitioned all of our employees to remote work unless they were essential workers that needed to remain onsite. These efforts have resulted in bifurcated control rooms, thus reducing the number of employees in mission-critical locations. We also established COVID-19 safety protocols, social distancing practices including limiting one employee per vehicle and offering virtual options whenever possible. The Company also took rapid action to implement an all Company COVID-19 hotline, a focused COVID-19 team, and procured on-site COVID-19 testing at key facilities early in the pandemic. Through this testing, case management and contact tracing, the Company has been able to significantly limit COVID-19 transmission in the
28
Table of Contents
workplace. As a result of these efforts, we have been able to maintain the continuity of the essential services that we provide to our customers, while also managing the spread of the virus and promoting the health, physical and mental well-being and safety of our employees, customers and communities.

Employee Safety

Our work and our decisions are anchored in safety – safety is the foundation of everything we do, and employee safety is our paramount responsibility as an employer. We develop safety practices and programs that ensure employees have safe and secure workplaces that allow them to perform at the highest levels. Our comprehensive safety programs and our focus on human and organizational performance and injury case management contribute significantly to our strong safety performance. As we continue to improve our safety performance, our ultimate goal remains serious injury reduction. Our employees are expected to do the right thing and empowered to speak up when there are better or safer ways of doing business, including stopping work to reassess or improve safety. Safety committees operate in organizations throughout the Company, providing opportunities for employees to positively impact their local safety cultures and performance.

Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Diversity, equity and inclusion are core cultural principles, and we recognize that diversity of demographics, backgrounds and cultural perspective is a key driver for our success. Our Executive Diversity & Inclusion Council leads this commitment with an emphasis on diversity among employees, in the workplace and through our community involvement, as well as an increased focus on attracting and retaining diverse talent. This focus extends to individual business units in the Company, which report on the diversity of their team during management review meetings to build awareness and address gaps of workforce diversity. Our efforts to support and empower employees include a commitment to full inclusion. In 2019, we signed the UNITY Pledge in support of full inclusion and equality in employment, housing and public accommodations for all Arizonans, including gay and transgender people. The UNITY Pledge reinforces our commitment to fostering an environment that recognizes our employees’ unique needs and celebrates the value of diverse perspectives. The Company sponsors ten employee network groups that are intended to create a sense of inclusion and belonging for employees. In 2020, we conducted company-wide executive listening sessions to provide our employees with the opportunity to share their inclusion experiences with our officers. We continue to focus on hiring diverse employees as well as hiring employees from our veteran community. At the end of 2020, 36% of external hires were ethnically diverse, 36% were female and 18% were veterans. Additionally, as of December 31, 2020, 32% of our employees are ethnically or racially diverse, 24% are female and 17% are veterans.

Succession Planning

Through a strong focus on succession planning, we ensure that our Company is prepared to fill executive and other key leadership roles with capable, experienced employees. We continually revisit and revise succession plans to make certain that qualified individuals are in place to move into critical positions. We have strategically selected successors for our management team to lead our Company into the future with strong and sustainable performance. In addition, we assure that each business unit of the Company has talent management strategies and development plans to meet its future leadership needs. Effective succession planning helps us identify employees with leadership potential and also allows us to evaluate any gaps in education, skills and experience that need to be addressed to prepare those employees to move into leadership roles. At management review meetings, officers and directors review how business units are addressing succession planning, leadership opportunities and retirement projections.
29
Table of Contents

Talent Strategy

We place significant focus on attracting and developing a skilled workforce. To attract and retain top talent, we provide formal professional development programs through blended learning education and leadership training. Our employees have access to a wide variety of training and development opportunities, including leadership academies, rotational programs, mentoring programs, industry certifications and loaned executive programs. Talent pipelines help sustain our skilled workforce needs. Pipeline strategies include our apprentice and rotational programs. Additionally, our recruiters target specific colleges and programs of study that we have identified as talent pipelines. In 2020, we hosted 56 summer interns from 11 different universities 100% virtually with a diversity rate of 52%.

Total Rewards Strategy

In addition to our talent strategy, we place significant focus on our Total Rewards strategy for attracting, developing and rewarding our highly skilled workforce. Our employees are important to the success and future of our organization and our customers’ experiences. At the Company, our pay and benefits, along with retirement, recognition, time off, career development and wellbeing, make up our Total Rewards program. It is an important part of the employee experience at the Company and supports personal wellbeing and professional satisfaction. We are committed to providing programs that matter to our employees throughout various life and career phases.

Employee Engagement

An annual employee experience survey and focused quarterly pulse-surveys, enable us to gather employee feedback, identify opportunities for improvement and compare our performance to other companies. Through the surveys, we track our Employee Experience Index, a set of seven questions that encompass key elements of a positive employee experience, including recognition, career development possibilities and pride in the organization. Based on survey results, business units and individual managers are encouraged to take meaningful actions to improve the employee experience. In response to past surveys, we have launched enterprise-wide initiatives focused on improving communication between employees and management as well as removing obstacles that prevent job success. Other initiatives driven by the survey have given employees more access to leadership and improved meeting efficiency. Our cross-functional Employee Engagement Council focuses on improving employee recognition across the organization. We work to ensure that a positive work environment is maintained for all employees. Through an outreach initiative, we obtain feedback from new hires regarding their employee experience. In 2019, we integrated our employee experience surveys with onboarding surveys and exit interviews. Bringing together these elements allows us to get a more complete picture of the experience of our employees, from the time they join the Company until they decide to leave.

Company Culture

In 2020, the Company launched the APS Promise, anchoring our commitment to our customers, community, and each other. The Promise explains our purpose, our vision and mission and the principles and behaviors that will empower us to achieve our strategic goals. It represents the opportunity to build on our cultural strengths and develop new behaviors to enable our future success.



30
Table of Contents
pnw-20201231_g3.jpg

WHERE TO FIND MORE INFORMATION

We use our website (www.pinnaclewest.com) as a channel of distribution for material Company information.  The following filings are available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”):  Annual Reports on Form 10-K, definitive proxy statements for our annual shareholder meetings, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is www.sec.gov. Our board and committee charters, Code of Ethics for Financial Executives, Code of Ethics and Business Practices and other corporate governance information is also available on the Pinnacle West website.  Pinnacle West will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics for Financial Executives and Code of Ethics and Business Practices, and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange, on its website.  The information on Pinnacle West’s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.
 
You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, by contacting Pinnacle West at the following address:  Pinnacle West Capital Corporation, Office of the Corporate Secretary, Mail Station 8602, P.O. Box 53999, Phoenix, Arizona 85072-3999 (telephone 602-250-4400). 
