General

Pool Corporation (the Company, which may be referred to as we, us or our) is the world’s largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products and is one of the leading distributors of irrigation and landscape products in the United States. Our vision is to establish POOLCORP as the global, digital distribution leader in swimming pool, backyard and irrigation and landscape distribution markets. The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1993 and has grown from a regional distributor to a multi-national, multi-network distribution company. 

Our industry is highly fragmented, and as such, we add considerable value to the industry by purchasing products from a large number of manufacturers and then distributing the products to our customer base on conditions that are more favorable than our customers could obtain on their own.

As of December 31, 2020, we operated 398 sales centers in North America, Europe and Australia through our four distribution networks:

•SCP Distributors (SCP);
•Superior Pool Products (Superior);
•Horizon Distributors (Horizon); and
•National Pool Tile (NPT).

Our Industry

We believe that the swimming pool industry is relatively young, with room for continued growth from the increased penetration of new pools. Significant growth opportunities also reside with pool remodel and pool equipment replacement activities due to the aging of the installed base of swimming pools, technological advancements and the development of energy-efficient and more aesthetically attractive products. Additionally, the desire for consumers to enhance their outdoor living spaces with hardscapes, lighting and outdoor kitchens also promotes growth in this area.

Favorable demographic and socioeconomic trends have positively impacted our industry, and we believe these trends will continue to do so in the long term.  These favorable trends include the following:

•long-term growth in housing units in warmer markets due to the population migration toward the southern United States, where use of the outdoor home environment is more prevalent and extends longer throughout the year;
•increased homeowner spending on outdoor living spaces for relaxation and entertainment;
•consumers bundling the purchase of a swimming pool and other products, with new irrigation systems, landscaping and improvements to outdoor living spaces often being key components to both pool installations and remodels;
•consumers using more automation and control products, higher quality materials and other pool features that add to our sales opportunities over time; and
•increased consumer spending on homes including outdoor living spaces driven by stay-at-home and remote work trends.

Almost 60% of consumer spending in the pool industry is for maintenance and minor repair of existing swimming pools.  Maintaining a proper sanitization balance and the related upkeep and repair of swimming pool equipment, such as pumps, heaters, filters and safety equipment, creates a non-discretionary demand for pool chemicals, equipment and other related parts and supplies.  We also believe cosmetic considerations such as a pool’s appearance and the overall look of backyard environments create an ongoing demand for other maintenance-related goods and certain discretionary products.
 
We believe that the recurring nature of the maintenance and repair market has historically helped maintain a relatively consistent rate of industry growth.  This characteristic has helped cushion the negative impact on revenues in periods when unfavorable economic conditions and softness in the housing market adversely impacted consumer discretionary spending including pool construction and major replacement and refurbishment activities.

1

The following table reflects growth in the domestic installed base of in-ground swimming pools over the past 11 years (based on Company estimates and information from 2019 P.K. Data, Inc. reports):

pool-20201231_g2.jpg

The replacement and refurbishment market currently accounts for close to 25% of consumer spending in the pool industry.  The activity in this market, which includes major swimming pool remodeling, is driven by the aging of the installed base of pools. The timing of these types of expenditures is more sensitive to economic factors including home values, single-family home sales and consumer confidence that impact consumer spending compared to the maintenance and minor repair market.

New swimming pool construction comprises just over 15% of consumer spending in the pool industry.  The demand for new pools is driven by the perceived benefits of pool ownership including relaxation, entertainment, family activity, exercise and convenience.  The industry competes for new pool sales against other discretionary consumer purchases such as kitchen and bathroom remodeling, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles and vacations.  The industry is also affected by other factors including, but not limited to, consumer preferences or attitudes toward pool and related outdoor living products for aesthetic, environmental, safety or other reasons.

The irrigation and landscape industry shares many characteristics with the pool industry, and we believe that it will realize similar long-term growth rates. Irrigation system installations often occur in tandem with new single-family home construction making it more susceptible to economic variables that drive new home sales. However, the landscape industry offers similar maintenance-related growth opportunities as the swimming pool industry. Product offerings such as chemicals and fertilizers, power equipment and related repair and maintenance services offer recurring revenue streams in an industry otherwise closely tied to the housing market. The irrigation and landscape distribution business serves both residential and commercial markets, with the majority of sales related to the residential market.  We believe that irrigation accounts for approximately 35% - 40% of total spending in the industry, with the remaining 60% - 65% of spending related to landscape maintenance products, power equipment, hardscapes and specialty outdoor products and accessories.

2

Our NPT network primarily serves the swimming pool market but does provide some overlap with the irrigation and landscape industries as we offer our market-leading brand of pool tile, composite pool finish products and hardscapes. As more consumers create and enhance outdoor living areas and continue to invest in their outdoor environment, we believe we can focus our resources to address such demand, while leveraging our existing pool and irrigation and landscape customer base. We feel the development of our NPT network is a natural extension of our distribution model. In addition to our 21 standalone NPT sales centers, we currently have over 100 SCP and Superior sales centers that feature consumer showrooms where landscape and swimming pool contractors, as well as homeowners, can view and select pool components including pool tile, decking materials and interior pool finishes in various styles and grades, and serve as stocking locations for our NPT branded products. We also offer virtual tools for homeowners to select and design their pool and outdoor environments, working with their chosen contractors to install these products. We believe our showrooms, local stocking of products and virtual support provide us with a competitive advantage in these categories. Given the more discretionary nature of these products, this business is more sensitive to external market factors compared to our business overall.

Economic Environment

Certain trends in the housing market, the availability of consumer credit and general economic conditions (as commonly measured by Gross Domestic Product or GDP) affect our industry, particularly new pool and irrigation system starts as well as the timing and extent of pool refurbishments, equipment replacement, landscaping projects and outdoor living space renovations.

We believe that over the long term, single-family housing turnover and home value appreciation may correlate with demand for new pool construction, with higher rates of home turnover and appreciation having a positive impact on new pool starts over time.  We also believe that homeowners’ access to consumer credit is a critical factor enabling the purchase of new swimming pools and irrigation systems.  Similar to other discretionary purchases, replacement and refurbishment activities are more heavily impacted by economic factors such as consumer confidence, GDP and employment levels. Contractor labor availability has also become an issue in recent years, limiting our customers’ ability to fully meet consumer construction and renovation demand.

The market environment from June 2009, when the Great Recession ended, until 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic-induced recession began, was characterized by steady economic expansion, the cautious recovery of consumer spending, modest housing recovery and low inflation. However, in terms of homeowners investing in their existing homes, discretionary expenditures, including backyard renovations, have flourished over this time period with steady increases in home values and lack of affordable new homes prompting homeowners to stay in their homes longer and upgrade their home environments, including their backyards. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, many families spent more time at home and sought out opportunities to create or expand existing home-based outdoor living and entertainment spaces, which resulted in an increase in new pool construction and greater expenditures for maintenance and remodeling products, despite the overall decline in economic activity in the U.S. While we estimate that new pool construction increased from approximately 80,000 units in 2019 to approximately 100,000 units in 2020, construction levels are still down approximately 55% compared to peak historical levels and down approximately 40% from what we consider normal levels. An average of approximately 170,000 new units per year were built in the years leading up to the Great Recession. We expect that new pool and irrigation construction levels will continue to grow incrementally, but we believe that consumer investments in outdoor living spaces beyond the swimming pool will generate greater growth over the next several years.

Times of strong economic conditions in the United States enable further replacement, remodeling and new construction activity. Although some constraints exist around residential construction activities, we believe that we are well positioned to take advantage of both the market expansion and the inherent long-term growth opportunities in our industry. Additionally, recent regulation passed by the U.S. Department of Energy mandates all new and replacement motors and pumps for swimming pools must meet certain compliance regulations by July 2021. This mandate, coupled with additional product developments and technological advancements, offers further growth opportunities over the next few years.

Considering the factors discussed above, we believe we will realize annual sales growth rates of approximately 6% to 8% over the next five years.

3

Business Strategy and Growth

Our mission is to provide exceptional value to our customers and suppliers, creating exceptional return to our shareholders, while providing exceptional opportunities to our employees.  Our core strategies are as follows:

•to promote the growth of our industry;
•to promote the growth of our customers’ businesses; and
•to continuously strive to operate more effectively.

We promote the growth of our industry through various advertising and promotional programs intended to raise consumer awareness of the benefits and affordability of pool ownership, the ease of pool maintenance and the many ways in which a pool and the surrounding spaces may be enjoyed beyond swimming.  These programs include digital and media advertising, industry-oriented website development such as www.swimmingpool.com®, www.hottubs.com® and www.nptpool.com®, social media platforms and other digital marketing initiatives, including our NPT® Backyard mobile app.  We use these programs as tools to educate consumers and lead prospective pool owners to our customers.

We promote the growth of our customers’ businesses by offering comprehensive support programs that include promotional tools and marketing support to help our customers generate increased sales.  Our uniquely tailored programs include such features as customer lead generation, personalized websites, brochures, direct mail, marketing campaigns and business development training.  As a customer service, we also provide certain retail store customers assistance with all aspects of their business, including site selection, store layout and design, product merchandising, business management system implementation, comprehensive product offering selections and efficient ordering and inventory management processes. In addition to these programs, we feature consumer showrooms in over 100 of our sales centers and host our annual Retail Summit to educate our customers about product offerings and the overall industry, although we did not host our annual Retail Summit in January 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. We also act as a day-to-day resource by offering product and market expertise to serve our customers’ unique needs.

In addition to our efforts aimed at industry and customer growth, we strive to operate more effectively by continuously focusing on improvements in our operations. We aim to create capacity with business to business development tools and execution to ensure best-in-class service and value creation for our customers and suppliers. In particular, we have developed the Pool360 and Horizon 24/7 platforms that help our customers be more productive by allowing them to get pricing, check availability, enter orders and make payments online while leveraging our customer service staff resources, particularly during peak business periods. These tools not only offer real-time integration into our enterprise resource planning system, creating efficiencies in our business processes as well, but they also provide our customers graphical catalog presentation in the same platform. We’ve enhanced our BlueStreak mobile order processing, which enables our sales associates with wireless technology that puts them next to the customer rather than behind the counter. Orders are processed faster, often eliminating the need for customers to get out of their vehicles. We are also actively making improvements to our sales centers and warehouses, including improved showroom layouts, sales center merchandising and velocity slotting. Velocity slotting uses technology to identify fast moving, high velocity items, which are then color-coded and placed in an easily accessible location to create efficiencies for both our employees and customers. In addition to these initiatives, we strive to expand our Pool Corporation-branded products and exclusive brand offerings.

We have grown our distribution networks through new sales center openings, acquisitions and the expansion of existing sales centers depending on our market presence and capacity. For additional information regarding our new sales center openings, acquisitions and closures/consolidations, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and Item 8, Note 2 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” included in this Form 10-K.

We plan to continue to make strategic acquisitions and open new sales centers to further penetrate existing markets and expand into both new geographic markets and new product categories. We believe that our high customer service levels and expanded product offerings have enabled us to gain market share historically. Going forward, we expect to realize sales growth higher than the industry average due to further increases in market share and continued expansion of our product offerings.

We estimate that price inflation has averaged 1% to 2% annually in our industry over the past ten years.  We generally pass industry price increases through our supply chain and may make strategic volume inventory purchases ahead of vendor price increases in order to obtain favorable pricing.  We estimate that annual price inflation in 2018 and 2020 was consistent with the ten-year average. We estimate that annual price inflation in 2019 was approximately 2% above our historical range as we sold through strategic inventory purchases from 2018. We believe that results in 2021 will be impacted by inflationary product cost increases of approximately 2% to 3% (compared to our historical average of 1% to 2%).

4

Customers and Products

We serve roughly 120,000 customers. No single customer accounted for 10% or more of our sales in 2020. Most of our customers are small, family-owned businesses with relatively limited capital resources. Most of these businesses provide labor and technical services to the end consumer and operate as independent contractors and specialty retailers employing no more than ten employees (in many cases, working alone or with a limited crew).  These customers also buy from other distributors, mass merchants, home stores and certain specialty and internet retailers.

We provide extended payment terms to qualified customers for sales under early buy programs. The extended terms usually require payments in equal installments in April, May and June or May and June depending on geographic location. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Allowance for Doubtful Accounts” for additional information.

We sell our products primarily to the following types of customers:

•swimming pool remodelers and builders;
•specialty retailers that sell swimming pool supplies;
•swimming pool repair and service businesses;
•irrigation construction and landscape maintenance contractors; and
•commercial customers who service large commercial installations such as hotels, universities and community recreational facilities.

We conduct our operations through 398 sales centers in North America, Europe and Australia. Our primary markets, with the highest concentration of swimming pools, are California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, collectively representing approximately 54% of our 2020 net sales.  In 2020, we generated approximately 94% of our sales in North America (including Canada and Mexico), 5% in Europe and 1% in Australia. While we continue to expand both domestically and internationally, we expect this geographic mix to be similar over the next few years. References to product line and product category data throughout this Form 10-K generally reflect data related to the North American swimming pool market, as it is more readily available for analysis and represents the largest component of our operations.

We use a combination of local and international sales and marketing personnel to promote the growth of our business and develop and strengthen our customers’ businesses.  Our sales and marketing personnel focus on developing customer programs and promotional activities, creating and enhancing sales management tools and providing product and market expertise.  Our local sales personnel work from our sales centers and are charged with understanding and meeting our customers’ specific needs.

We offer our customers more than 200,000 manufacturer and Pool Corporation-branded products.  We believe that our selection of pool equipment, supplies, chemicals, replacement parts, irrigation and related products and other pool construction and recreational products is the most comprehensive in the industry. We sell the following types of products:
 
•maintenance products, such as chemicals, supplies and pool accessories;
•repair and replacement parts for pool equipment, such as cleaners, filters, heaters, pumps and lights;
•fiberglass pools and hot tubs and packaged pool kits including walls, liners, braces and coping for in-ground and above-ground pools;
•pool equipment and components for new pool construction and the remodeling of existing pools;
•irrigation and related products, including irrigation system components and professional lawn care equipment and supplies;
•building materials, such as concrete, plumbing and electrical components, both functional and decorative pool surfaces, decking materials, tile, hardscapes and natural stone, used for pool installations and remodeling;
•commercial products, including American Society of Material Engineers heaters, safety equipment and commercial pumps and filters; and
•other pool construction and recreational products, which consist of a number of product categories and include discretionary recreational and related outdoor living products, such as hot tubs, grills and components for outdoor kitchens, that enhance consumers’ use and enjoyment of outdoor living spaces.

We currently have over 600 product lines and approximately 50 product categories. Based on our 2020 product classifications, sales for our pool and hot tub chemicals product category represented approximately 10% of total net sales for 2020 and 12% of total net sales in 2019 and 2018. No other product categories accounted for 10% or more of total net sales in any of the last three fiscal years.
5


We continue to identify new related product categories, and we typically introduce new categories each year in select markets.  We then evaluate the performance in these markets and focus on those product categories that we believe exhibit the best long-term growth potential. We expect to realize continued sales growth for these types of product offerings by expanding the number of locations that offer these products, increasing the number of products offered at certain locations and continuing a modest broadening of these product offerings on a company-wide basis.

Recent regulation passed by the U.S. Department of Energy mandates all new and replacement motors and pumps sold for swimming pools must meet certain compliance regulations by July 2021. We expect to see minimal impact from this change until mid-way through the 2021 season. New product technology provides opportunities not only for improved energy efficiency but also new enticements for leisure activities. Smart controls provide growth opportunities as most existing swimming pools run on mechanical time clocks. Major equipment manufacturers have developed and will continue to develop more retrofit kits that allow homeowners to interact with their pools or hot tubs through their smartphones. Robotic cleaners offer consumers a more efficient option for maintaining their swimming pools. We see each of these developments as significant growth opportunities. We offer a growing selection of energy-efficient and environmentally preferred products, which supports sustainability and helps our customers save energy, water and money. Our green technology products include variable speed pumps, LED pool and hot tub lights and high-efficiency heat pumps.

Over the last several years, we have increased our product offerings and service abilities related to commercial swimming pools. We consider the commercial market to be a key growth opportunity as we focus more attention on providing products to customers who service large commercial installations such as hotels, universities and community recreational facilities. While we are leveraging our existing networks and relationships to grow this market, in 2017, we also acquired Lincoln Equipment, Inc., a national distributor of equipment and supplies to commercial and institutional swimming pool customers. Sales to commercial customers declined in 2020 due to COVID-19 related closures and the decline in both business and leisure travel. We expect commercial sales to improve as COVID-19 pandemic conditions ease.

In 2020, the sale of maintenance and minor repair products (non-discretionary) accounted for almost 60% of our sales and gross profits, while just over 40% of our sales and gross profits were derived from the refurbishment, replacement, construction and installation (equipment, materials, plumbing, electrical, etc.) of swimming pools (partially discretionary). During the economic downturn, which spanned from late 2006 to early 2010 and reached its low point in 2009, sales of maintenance and minor repair products had increased to approximately 70% of our sales and gross profits due to the significant declines in new pool construction and deferred remodeling and replacement activity. The current trend reflects a partial shift back toward a greater percentage of our sales coming from major refurbishment and replacement products due to the recovery of these activities since levels reached their historic low point in 2009.

Post-2009, we experienced product and customer mix changes, including a shift in consumer spending to some higher value, lower margin products such as variable speed pumps and high efficiency heaters. In 2020, we experienced higher sales of lower margin, big-ticket items, such as pool equipment and in-ground and above-ground pools. These products positively contribute to our sales and gross profit growth but negatively impact our gross margin. We expect continued demand for these products, but believe our efforts in various pricing and sourcing initiatives, including growth in our higher margin private label and exclusive products (PLEX) and our expansion of building materials product offerings, have helped offset these gross margin declines and will lead to somewhat flat or slightly lower gross margin trends over the next few years.

Operating Strategy

We distribute swimming pool supplies, equipment and related leisure products domestically through our SCP and Superior networks and internationally through our SCP network. We adopted the strategy of operating two distinct distribution networks within the U.S. swimming pool market primarily to offer our customers a choice of distinctive product selections, locations and service personnel.

We distribute irrigation and related products through our Horizon network and tile, decking materials and interior pool finish products through our NPT network, as well as through SCP and Superior networks. We evaluate our sales centers based on their performance relative to predetermined standards that include both financial and operational measures.  Our corporate support groups provide our field operations with various services, such as developing and coordinating customer and vendor related programs, human resources support, information systems support and expert resources to help them achieve their goals.  We believe our incentive programs and feedback tools, along with the competitive nature of our internal networks, stimulate and enhance employee performance.

6

Distribution

Our sales centers are located within population centers near customer concentrations, typically in industrial, commercial or mixed-use zones.  Customers may pick up products at any sales center location, or we may deliver products to their premises or job sites via our trucks or third-party carriers.

Our sales centers maintain well-stocked inventories to meet our customers’ immediate needs.  We utilize warehouse management technology to optimize receiving, inventory control, picking, packing and shipping functions. For additional information regarding our inventory management, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Inventory Obsolescence,” of this Form 10-K.

We also operate four centralized shipping locations (CSLs) in the United States that redistribute products we purchase in bulk quantities to our sales centers or, in some cases, directly to customers.  Our CSLs are regional locations that carry a wide range of traditional swimming pool, irrigation and landscape products and related construction products.  

Purchasing and Suppliers

We enjoy good relationships with our suppliers, who generally offer competitive pricing, return policies and promotional allowances.  It is customary in our industry for certain manufacturers to manage their shipments by offering seasonal terms to qualifying purchasers such as Pool Corporation, which are referred to as early buy purchases.  These early buy purchases typically allow us to place orders in the fall at a modest discount, take delivery of product during the off-season months and pay for these purchases in the spring or early summer.

Our preferred vendor program encourages our distribution networks to stock and sell products from a smaller number of vendors offering the best overall terms and service to optimize profitability and shareholder return.  We also work closely with our vendors to develop programs and services to better meet the needs of our customers and to concentrate our inventory investments.  These practices, together with a more comprehensive service offering, have positively impacted our selling margins and our returns on inventory investments. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Vendor Programs,” for additional information.

We regularly evaluate supplier relationships and consider alternate sourcing to assure competitive cost, service and quality standards.  Our largest suppliers include Pentair plc, Hayward Pool Products, Inc. and Zodiac Pool Systems, Inc., which accounted for approximately 20%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of the cost of products we sold in 2020.

Competition

We are the largest wholesale distributor of swimming pool and related backyard products (based on industry knowledge and available data) and the only truly national wholesale distributor focused on the swimming pool industry in the United States.  We are also one of the leading distributors of irrigation and landscape products in the United States.  We face intense competition from many regional and local distributors in our markets and from one national wholesale distributor of landscape supplies.  We also face competition, both directly and indirectly, from mass market retailers (both store-based and internet) and large pool supply retailers who primarily buy directly from manufacturers.

Some geographic markets we serve, particularly the four largest and higher pool density markets of California, Texas, Florida and Arizona, have a greater concentration of competition than others.  Barriers to entry in our industry are relatively low.  We believe that the principal competitive factors in swimming pool and irrigation and landscape supply distribution are:

•the breadth and availability of products offered;
•the quality and level of customer service, including ease of ordering and product delivery;
•the breadth and depth of sales and marketing programs;
•consistency and stability of business relationships with customers and suppliers;
•competitive product pricing; and
•geographic proximity to the customer.

We believe that we generally compete favorably with respect to each of these factors.

7

Seasonality and Weather

Our business is highly seasonal. In general, sales and operating income are highest during the second and third quarters, which represent the peak months of swimming pool use, pool and irrigation installation and remodeling and repair activities. Sales are substantially lower during the first and fourth quarters. In 2020, we generated approximately 61% of our net sales and 76% of our operating income in the second and third quarters of the year.

We typically experience a build-up of product inventories and accounts payable during the winter months in anticipation of the peak selling season.  Excluding borrowings to finance acquisitions and share repurchases, our peak borrowing usually occurs during the late spring and summer, primarily because extended terms offered by our suppliers are typically payable in April, May and June, while our peak accounts receivable collections typically occur in June, July and August.

We expect that our quarterly results of operations will continue to fluctuate depending on the timing and amount of revenue contributed by new and acquired sales centers.  Based on our peak summer selling season, we generally open new sales centers and close or consolidate sales centers, when warranted, either in the first quarter before the peak selling season begins or in the fourth quarter after the peak selling season ends.

Weather is one of the principal external factors affecting our business. The table below presents some of the possible effects resulting from various weather conditions.

								
Weather		Possible Effects
Hot and dry	•	Increased purchases of chemicals and supplies
 	 	for existing swimming pools
 	•	Increased purchases of above-ground pools and
 	 	irrigation and lawn care products
		
Unseasonably cool weather or extraordinary amounts	•	Fewer pool and irrigation and landscaping
of rain		installations
	•	Decreased purchases of chemicals and supplies
	•	Decreased purchases of impulse items such as
 	 	above-ground pools and accessories
		
Unseasonably early warming trends in spring/late cooling	•	A longer pool and landscape season, thus positively
trends in fall		impacting our sales
(primarily in the northern half of the U.S. and Canada)	 	 
		
Unseasonably late warming trends in spring/early cooling	•	A shorter pool and landscape season, thus negatively
trends in fall		impacting our sales
(primarily in the northern half of the U.S. and Canada)	 	 

For discussion regarding the effects seasonality and weather had on our results of operations in 2020 and 2019, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Seasonality and Quarterly Fluctuations,” of this Form 10-K.

Government Regulations

Our business is subject to regulation under local fire codes and international, federal, state and local environmental and health and safety requirements, including regulation by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Department of Transportation, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the National Fire Protection Agency and the International Maritime Organization. Most of these requirements govern the packaging, labeling, handling, transportation, storage and sale of chemicals and fertilizers. We store certain types of chemicals and/or fertilizers at each of our sales centers and the storage of these items is strictly regulated by local fire codes. In addition, we sell algaecides and pest control products that are regulated as pesticides under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act and various state pesticide laws. These laws primarily relate to labeling, annual registration and licensing.

8

Human Capital Management

We employed approximately 4,500 people at December 31, 2020. Given the seasonal nature of our business, our peak employment period is the summer and, depending on expected sales levels, we add 200 to 500 employees to our work force to meet seasonal demand. Approximately 90% of our employees are located in the U.S.

We believe that our success is a direct result of the contributions and commitment of our employees. We provide competitive pay and benefits, as well as training and other resources to our employees. Our goal is to be an Employer of Choice through focusing on the engagement, development, retention and health and well‑being of our employees. We have established a set of standard operating procedures to optimize our human capital management function, including hiring and human resource policies, training practices and operational instruction manuals. We focus on the following factors in implementing and developing our human capital strategy:

•employee health, safety and wellness;
•employee growth and development;
•diversity and inclusion; and
•employee compensation and benefits.

Employee Health, Safety and Wellness

Our commitment to the health, safety and wellness of our employees ranks at the top of our core fundamental values. Our ultimate goal is to send every employee home each night in the same condition in which they came to work that morning. We aim to achieve zero serious injuries through continued investment in and focus on our core safety programs and injury-reduction initiatives. This effort begins immediately with new employees and is reinforced each day through a focus on safety awareness, risk identification and other essential safety protocols.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken a number of actions to protect the health and well-being of our employees and to reward our employees for their contributions to our success. These actions include providing personal protective equipment, expanding healthcare benefits and re-configuring working spaces and arrangements. We also made efforts to reward our employees by extending paid leave and paying additional discretionary bonuses to our employees for their contributions.

Employee Growth and Development

We strive to be an Employer of Choice by investing in our employees. Our goal is to attract, develop and retain a talented team of people inspired by our mission to provide exceptional value to our customers and suppliers and create exceptional return to our shareholders, while providing exceptional opportunities for our employees. Our success depends on our employees understanding how their work contributes to the company’s overall strategy. We use a variety of channels to facilitate open and direct communication with our employees, including open forums with executives and employee experience surveys.

When our employees succeed, the company succeeds. To help our employees achieve success in their roles, we emphasize continuous training and development opportunities. These include safety and security protocols, updates on new products and service offerings and deployment of technologies. We also provide managerial training to mid-level managers and departmental leaders. This coursework covers topics such as talent review, development of underperforming employees, handling employee misconduct and coaching and success workshops.

We also provide an entry level program to prepare Manager Trainees (MITs) for sales and operations management opportunities. Our MITs are hosted at either our state-of-the-art EDGEucation Center, located in Plano, TX or in a virtual classroom. Our program includes lectures, projects and role play to provide MITs with industry knowledge, leadership skills and the tools necessary to succeed within our organization.

Diversity and Inclusion

We are committed to fostering a diverse and inclusive workplace that represents the communities in which we work and live. We believe that diversity drives innovation and delivers the best solutions to complex problems, and we are building a culture where differences are welcomed and valued. To achieve this, we are committed to expanding the diversity of our workforce through the hiring, retention and advancement of underrepresented populations. In addition, we support our existing employees with training and development that helps create a more inclusive environment. Our recent initiatives include the establishment of a diversity and inclusiveness team, expanding existing content in core employee development programs and improving our efforts to recruit and hire first-class diverse talent.
9


Employee Compensation and Benefits

We strive to provide market-competitive pay, benefits and services to our employees. Our performance-based compensation philosophy is based on rewarding each employee’s individual contributions regardless of gender, race or ethnicity. Our total compensation package includes cash compensation (base salary and incentive or bonus payments), company contributions toward additional benefits (such as health and disability plans), retirement plans with a company match and paid time off. We also offer the opportunity to become a shareholder through equity grants for management and our employee stock purchase plan.

Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG)

We are committed to sustainable business practices, which, for us, includes offering eco-friendly products to our customers, closely monitoring our sourcing activities, providing a safe, inclusive work environment for our employees, and being good stewards within the communities we serve. Currently, we are taking steps to trim our carbon footprint and to improve product choices that allow our customers to reduce their environmental impact. Further, we are installing more energy-efficient systems throughout our network and ensuring that our health and wellness programs include affordable, high quality benefits to improve the lives of our employees. We are continually striving to ensure success in our business while protecting resources for future generations. Our sustainability goals include the reduction of greenhouse gases and other harmful air emissions, water conservation, energy conservation and carbon footprint minimization. We continue to improve the ways in which we handle, distribute, transport and dispose of all products, particularly the chemicals and fertilizers that we sell.

We are dedicated to growing the swimming pool industry and have chosen charitable activities to support the swimming pool environment, in addition to our support of other local organizations. We actively encourage our employees to volunteer and engage with their communities through our stewardship committee and supporting charitable organizations. We believe these endeavors will continue to create value for our customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers and communities.

Our employees, managers and officers conduct our business under the direction of our CEO and the oversight of our Board of Directors (our Board) to enhance our long-term value for our stockholders. The core responsibility of our Board is to exercise its fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. In exercising this obligation, our Board and committees perform a number of specific functions, including risk assessment, review and oversight. While management is responsible for the day-to-day management of risk, our Board is responsible for oversight of our risk management programs, ensuring that an appropriate culture of risk management exists within the company, and assisting management in addressing specific risks, such as strategic risks, financial risks, regulatory risks and operational risks.

Intellectual Property

We maintain both domestic and foreign registered trademarks and patents, primarily for our Pool Corporation and Pool Systems Pty. Ltd. (PSL) branded products that are important to our current and future business operations. We also own rights to numerous internet domain names.

Geographic Areas

The table below presents net sales by geographic region, with international sales translated into U.S. dollars at prevailing exchange rates, for the past three fiscal years (in thousands):

																				
 		Year Ended December 31,
 		2020		2019		2018
United States		$	3,579,990 			$	2,911,772 			$	2,720,077 	
International		356,633 			287,745 			278,020 	
 		$	3,936,623 			$	3,199,517 			$	2,998,097 	


10

The table below presents net property and equipment by geographic region, with international property and equipment balances translated into U.S. dollars at prevailing exchange rates, for the past three fiscal year ends (in thousands):

																				
 		December 31,
 		2020		2019		2018
United States		$	100,857 			$	105,170 			$	100,905 	
International		7,384 			7,076 			6,059 	
 		$	108,241 			$	112,246 			$	106,964 	


Website Access and Available Information

Our website is www.poolcorp.com. The information on our website is not a part of this document.

Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website at www.poolcorp.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).

