PPG Industries, Inc. manufactures and distributes a broad range of paints, coatings and specialty materials. PPG was incorporated in Pennsylvania in 1883. PPG’s vision is to be the world’s leading coatings company by consistently delivering high-quality, innovative and sustainable solutions that customers trust to protect and beautify their products and surroundings. 
PPG has a proud heritage and demonstrated commitment to innovation, sustainability, community engagement and developing leading-edge paint, coatings and specialty materials technologies. Through dedication and industry-leading expertise, we solve our customers’ biggest challenges, collaborating closely to find the right path forward. PPG is a global leader, serving customers in construction, consumer products, industrial and transportation markets and aftermarkets with manufacturing facilities and equity affiliates in more than 70 countries.
PPG supplies coatings and specialty materials to customers in a wide array of end-uses, including industrial equipment and components; packaging material; aircraft and marine equipment; automotive original equipment; automotive refinish; pavement marking products; as well as coatings for other industrial and consumer products. PPG also serves commercial and residential new build and maintenance customers by supplying coatings to painting and maintenance contractors and directly to consumers for decoration and maintenance. The coatings industry is highly competitive and consists of several large firms with global presence and many firms supplying local or regional markets. PPG competes in its primary markets with the world’s largest coatings companies, most of which have global operations, and many regional coatings companies.
PPG’s business is comprised of two reportable business segments: Performance Coatings and Industrial Coatings as described below:
2020 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 3

PERFORMANCE COATINGS
														
Strategic Business Unit	Products	Primary End-uses	Main Distribution Methods	 Primary Brands
Aerospace Coatings	Coatings, sealants, transparencies, transparent armor, adhesives, engineered materials, packaging and chemical management services for the aerospace industry	Commercial, military, regional jet and general aviation aircraft	Direct to customers and company-owned distribution network	PPG®
Architectural Coatings Americas and Asia Pacific	Paints, wood stains, adhesives and purchased sundries	Painting and maintenance contractors and consumers for decoration and maintenance of residential and commercial building structures	Company-owned stores, home centers and other regional or national consumer retail outlets, paint dealers, concessionaires, independent distributors and direct to consumers	PPG®, GLIDDEN®, COMEX®, OLYMPIC®, DULUX® (in Canada), SIKKENS®, PPG PITTSBURGH PAINTS®, MULCO®, FLOOD®, LIQUID NAILS®, SICO®, RENNER®, TAUBMANS®, WHITE KNIGHT®, BRISTOL®, HOMAX® among others
Architectural Coatings Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA)	SIGMA®, HISTOR®, SEIGNEURIE®, GUITTET®, PEINTURES GAUTHIER®, RIPOLIN®, JOHNSTONE’S®, LEYLAND®, PRIMALEX®, DEKORAL®, TRILAK®, PROMINENT PAINTS®, GORI®, BONDEX®, and DANKE!® among others
Automotive Refinish Coatings	Coatings, solvents, adhesives, sealants, sundries, software	Automotive and commercial transport/fleet repair and refurbishing, light industrial coatings and specialty coatings for signs	Independent distributors and direct to customers	PPG®, SEM®, SPRINT®
Protective and Marine Coatings	Coatings and finishes for the protection of metals and structures	Metal fabricators, heavy duty maintenance contractors and manufacturers of ships, bridges and rail cars	Direct to customers, company-owned architectural coatings stores, independent distributors and concessionaires	PPG®
Traffic Solutions	Paints, thermoplastics, pavement marking products and other advanced technologies for pavement marking	Government, commercial infrastructure, painting and maintenance contractors, military	Direct to customers, government agencies and independent distributors	Ennis-Flint®
					
Segment Overview	This reportable business segment primarily supplies a variety of protective and decorative coatings, sealants and finishes along with pavement marking products, paint strippers, stains and related chemicals, as well as transparencies and transparent armor.
Major Competitive Factors	Product performance, technology, quality, technical and customer service, price, customer productivity, distribution and brand recognition
Global Competitors	Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems Ltd., BASF Corporation, Benjamin Moore, Cromology, Hempel A/S, Kansai Paints, the Jotun Group, Masco Corporation, Nippon Paint; RPM International Inc, the Sherwin-Williams Company, Tikkurila Oyj and 3M Company
2020 Strategic Acquisitions	
Ennis-Flint, Industria Chimica Reggiana (“ICR”). Refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions and Divestitures” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information.
Average Number of Employees in 2020	26,400
Principal Manufacturing and Distribution Facilities	Amsterdam, Netherlands; Birstall, United Kingdom; Busan, South Korea; Carrollton, Texas; Clayton, Australia; Delaware, Ohio; Deurne, Belgium; Gonfreville, France; Huntsville, Alabama; Huron, Ohio; Kunshan, China; Little Rock, Arkansas; Mexico City, Mexico; Milan, Italy; Mojave, California; Oakwood, Georgia; Ontario, Canada; Ostrow Wielkopolski, Poland; Ruitz, France; Shildon, United Kingdom; Sylmar, California; Stowmarket, United Kingdom; Tepexpan, Mexico; Waxahachie, Texas; and Wroclaw, Poland.
     2020 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 4

INDUSTRIAL COATINGS
														
Strategic Business Unit	Products	Primary End-uses	Main Distribution Methods	Primary Brands
Automotive OEM(a) Coatings
	Specifically formulated coatings, adhesives and sealants and metal pretreaments	Automotive original equipment	Direct to manufacturing companies and various coatings applicators	PPG®
Industrial Coatings	Specifically formulated coatings, adhesives and sealants and metal pretreaments; services and coatings application	Appliances, agricultural and construction equipment, consumer electronics, automotive parts and accessories, building products (including residential and commercial construction), kitchenware, transportation vehicles and numerous other finished products; On-site coatings services within several customer manufacturing locations as well as at regional service centers. 	PPG®
Packaging Coatings	Specifically formulated coatings	Metal cans, closures, plastic tubes, industrial packaging, and promotional and specialty packaging	PPG®
Specialty Coatings and Materials	Amorphous precipitated silicas, TESLIN® substrate, Organic Light Emitting Diode (OLED) materials, optical lens materials and photochromic dyes	SILICA - Tire, battery separator and other end-uses
TESLIN - Labels, e-passports, drivers’ licenses, breathable membranes, loyalty cards and identification cards
OLED - displays and lighting
LENS MATERIALS - optical lenses and color-change products	PPG®
TESLIN®
(a) Original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
					
Segment Overview	
This reportable business segment primarily supplies a variety of protective and decorative coatings and finishes along with adhesives, sealants, metal pretreatment products, optical monomers and coatings, low-friction coatings, precipitated silicas and other specialty materials.
Alliances	PPG has established alliances with Kansai Paints to serve Japanese-based automotive OEM customers in North America and Europe and Asian Paints Ltd. to serve certain aftermarket customers and automotive OEM customers in India.
Major Competitive Factors	Product performance, technology, quality, technical and customer service, price, customer productivity and distribution.
Global Competitors	Akzo Nobel N.V., Axalta Coating Systems Ltd., BASF Corporation, Kansai Paints, Nippon Paint and the Sherwin-Williams Company
2020 Strategic Acquisitions 	
Alpha Coating Technologies, LLC. Refer to Note 3, “Acquisitions and Divestitures” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information.
Average Number of Employees in 2020	15,200
Principal Manufacturing and Distribution Facilities	Barberton, Ohio; Busan, South Korea; Cieszyn, Poland; Cleveland, Ohio; Delfzijl, Netherlands; Lake Charles, Louisiana; Oak Creek, Wisconsin; Quattordio, Italy; San Juan del Rio, Mexico; Springdale, Pennsylvania; Sumaré, Brazil; Weingarten, Germany; and Suzhou, Tianjin and Zhangjiagang, China.

2020 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 5

Research and Development
																	
($ in millions)	2020		2019		2018
Research and development costs, including depreciation of research facilities	$401 			$456 			$464 	
% of annual net sales	2.9 	%		3.0 	%		3.0 	%
Technology innovation has been a hallmark of PPG’s success throughout its history. The Company seeks to optimize its investment in research and development to create new products to drive profitable growth. We align our product development with the macro trends in the markets we serve and leverage core technology platforms to develop products for unmet market needs. Additionally, we operate laboratories in close geographic proximity to our customers, and we customize our products for our customers' end-use applications. Our history of successful technology introductions is based on a commitment to an efficient and effective innovation process and disciplined portfolio management. We have obtained government funding for a small portion of the Company’s research efforts, and we will continue to pursue government funding where appropriate.
We own and operate several facilities to conduct research and development for new and improved products and processes. In addition to the Company’s centralized principal research and development centers (See Item 2. “Properties” of this Form 10-K), operating segments manage their development through centers of excellence. As part of our ongoing efforts to manage our formulations and raw material costs effectively, we operate global competitive sourcing laboratories. Because of our broad array of products and customers, we are not materially dependent upon any single technology platform.
Raw Materials, Energy and Logistics
The effective management of raw materials, energy and logistics is important to PPG’s continued success as PPG uses a wide variety of complex raw materials that serve as the building blocks of our manufactured products. The Company’s most significant raw materials are epoxy and other resins, titanium dioxide and other pigments, and solvents in the coatings businesses and sand and soda ash in the specialty coatings and materials business. Raw materials include both organic, primarily petroleum-derived, materials and inorganic materials, including titanium dioxide. These raw materials represent PPG’s single largest production cost component.
Most of the raw materials and energy used in production are purchased from outside sources, and the Company has made, and plans to continue to make, supply arrangements to meet our planned operating requirements for the future. Supply of critical raw materials and energy is managed by establishing contracts with multiple sources and identifying alternative materials or technology whenever possible. Our raw materials include bio-based materials as part of a product renewal strategy. While prices for certain raw materials typically fluctuate with energy prices and global supply and demand changes, such fluctuations are impacted by the fact that the manufacture of our raw materials is several steps downstream from crude oil, natural gas, and other key feedstocks.
We are continuing our aggressive sourcing initiatives to broaden our supply of high quality raw materials, improve our overall competitive cost position and ensure ongoing security of supply. These initiatives include qualifying multiple sources of supply, both local and international, including suppliers from Asia and other lower cost regions of the world, adding on-site resin production at certain manufacturing locations and reducing the amount of titanium dioxide used in our product formulations.

We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the registration of chemicals which could potentially impact the availability and viability of some of the raw materials we use in our production processes. Our ongoing, global product stewardship efforts are directed at maintaining our compliance with these standards. Changes to chemical registration regulations have been proposed or implemented in the European Union and many other countries, including China, Canada, the United States (“U.S.”), the United Kingdom (“U.K.”), Brazil, Mexico and South Korea. Because implementation of many of these programs has not been finalized, the financial impact cannot be estimated at this time. We anticipate that the number of chemical registration regulations will continue to increase globally, and we have implemented programs to track and comply with these regulations.
PPG has joined a global initiative to eliminate child labor from the mica industry, and the Company is continuing to take steps, including audits of our suppliers, to ensure compliance with PPG’s policy against the use of child labor in our supply chains.
At PPG, our commitment to sustainability extends to our suppliers as an extension of our internal focus on sustainability. Our Global Supplier Code of Conduct clarifies our global expectations in the areas of business integrity, labor practices, associate health and safety, and environmental management. As a member of the Responsible Mica Initiative, PPG continues to be committed to establishing a fair, responsible and sustainable mica supply chain. In addition, in 2020, PPG engaged EcoVadis™, a leading global corporate social responsibility and sustainability ratings company, to leverage assessment processes, tools, resources and insights to drive sustainability standards and practices throughout PPG's
     2020 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 6

global supply base. The EcoVadis sustainability intelligence suite will assist PPG in providing broad-scale supply chain risk screening and mapping, more reliable supplier sustainability metric scorecards with actionable ratings, and complete audit and improvement management capabilities.
PPG earned a Gold rating from EcoVadis underscoring our ongoing commitment to corporate social responsibility (CSR) and our efforts to manage our economic, social and environmental impact.
We typically experience fluctuating prices for energy and raw materials driven by various factors, including changes in supplier feedstock costs and inventories, global industry activity levels, foreign currency exchange rates, government regulation, and global supply and demand factors. For 2020 versus 2019, we experienced deflationary movements in the majority of our costs, driven by a general slowdown in industrial demand due to the pandemic, affecting the global supply and demand balances. This was in addition to price and cost decreases in most of our key feedstocks through the first half of 2020.
Given the uncertainty of the global economic recovery from the pandemic, coupled with the continuing volatility in certain feedstock costs, particularly the volatility in oil and oil-based derivatives, and foreign currencies, we are not able to predict with certainty the 2021 full-year impact of changes in raw material pricing versus 2020.
Further, given the distribution nature of many of our businesses, logistics and distribution costs are sizable, as are wage and benefit changes. For 2020 versus 2019, PPG experienced a modest increase in logistics costs as a percentage of sales. This is due to inefficiencies in the global supply network and lower transportation agility due to restrictions associated with the global pandemic. Entering into 2021, transportation remains challenged with multiple supply and international trade factors, after the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union led to equipment shortages, impacting availability. Through the year we see these factors waning as supply networks become stabilized with new global demand patterns and the reduced impact of COVID-19 through vaccination. As a result of these factors, offset by improved operating efficiencies, PPG expects low level increases in logistics costs as a percentage of sales in 2021.
Global Operations
PPG has a significant investment in non-U.S. operations. This broad geographic footprint serves to lessen the significance of economic impacts occurring in any one region on our total Net sales and Income before income taxes in the consolidated statement of income. As a result of our global footprint, we are subject to certain inherent risks, including economic and political conditions in international markets, trade protection measures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. During 2020, unfavorable foreign currency translation decreased Net sales by approximately $150 million and Income before income taxes by approximately $25 million.
Our net sales in the developed and emerging regions of the world for the years ended December 31st are summarized below:
																	
($ in millions)	2020		2019		2018
Net sales					
United States, Canada, Western Europe	$9,218 			$10,191 			$10,299 	
Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific	4,616 			4,955 			5,075 	
Total	$13,834 			$15,146 			$15,374 	
Refer to Note 22, “Reportable Business Segment Information” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for geographic information related to PPG’s property, plant and equipment, and for additional geographic information pertaining to sales.
Seasonality
PPG’s Income before income taxes has typically been greater in the second and third quarters and Cash from operating activities has been greatest in the fourth quarter due to end-use market seasonality, primarily in our architectural coatings and traffic solutions businesses. Demand for our architectural coatings and traffic solutions products is typically the strongest in the second and third quarters due to higher home improvement, maintenance and construction activity during the spring and summer months in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The Latin America paint season is the strongest in the fourth quarter. These cyclical activity levels result in the collection of outstanding receivables and lower inventory on hand in the fourth quarter generating higher Cash from operating activities.
2020 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 10-K 7

Employee Relations
The average number of people employed worldwide by PPG during 2020 was approximately 46,900. The Company has numerous collective bargaining agreements throughout the world. We observe local customs, laws and practices in labor relations when negotiating collective bargaining agreements. There were no significant work stoppages in 2020. While we have experienced occasional work stoppages as a result of the collective bargaining process and may experience some work stoppages in the future, we believe that we will be able to negotiate all labor agreements on satisfactory terms. To date, these work stoppages have not had a significant impact on our results of operations. Overall, we believe we have good relationships with our employees.
Human Capital
Launched in 2019, The PPG Way is how we enable, empower and engage each employee to implement the strategies needed to strengthen our position as an industry leader. It guides our employees and leaders as we strive to achieve our purpose of protecting and beautifying the world. Employee engagement is a measure of how authentically we are living our culture. We conduct PPG Pulse Surveys multiple times each year, even in the midst of the global pandemic in 2020, to increase dialogue among teams and implement meaningful action to improve results.
Our people strategies provide the foundation for our teams to thrive and deliver exceptional performance. We are committed to ensuring our employees are safe, healthy, enabled, engaged and valued for the diverse talents they bring to PPG. We believe that having quality dialogue with our people, recognizing the value they bring and championing an authentic culture generates engaged employees and a company that is more innovative, productive and competitive. Our focus on and investment in learning and development are crucial to ensuring we keep our people engaged, productive and successful at every stage of their careers. We are committed to promoting from within wherever possible while also bringing in new ideas, thoughts and insights.
One of PPG’s greatest strengths is the diversity of our people, who represent wide-ranging nationalities, cultures, languages, religions, ethnicities, lifestyles, and professional and educational backgrounds. Their unique perspectives enable us to meet challenges quickly, creatively and effectively, providing a significant competitive advantage in today’s global economy. To ensure our people feel valued and respected, we are committed to providing a workplace that embraces a culture of diversity and inclusion and is free from harassment and bullying. More information about PPG’s people strategies and our workforce can be found in the Proxy Statement for our 2021 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and our Sustainability Report and on our sustainability website at http://sustainability.ppg.com.
Environmental Matters
PPG is committed to operating in a sustainable manner and to helping our customers meet their sustainability goals. Our sustainability efforts are led by the Technology and Environment Committee of our Board of Directors and our Sustainability Committee, which is comprised of members of PPG’s senior management team. The Sustainability Committee establishes policies, programs, procedures and goals to address sustainability in our business practices, including resource management, climate change, innovation, communications, purchasing, manufacturing and employee wellness.
Our dedication to innovation is intertwined with sustainability. Once again, we increased the percent of our sales from sustainable products to 35% in 2020 from 33% in 2019. We are marketing an ever-growing variety of products and services that provide environmental, safety and other benefits to our customers. Our products contribute to lighter, more fuel-efficient vehicles, airplanes and ships, and they help our customers reduce their energy consumption, conserve water and reduce waste. These products include a compact automotive paint process that saves energy and reduces water usage; sustainable, waterborne coatings formulations; lightweight sealants and coatings for aircraft; coatings that cool surfaces; coatings for recyclable metal packaging; antimicrobial products; and solutions for autonomous and battery-powered vehicles.
The Company’s commitment to sustainability continues to yield tangible results. In 2020, we again made significant progress reducing our energy intensity, greenhouse gas emissions intensity and waste intensity. More information about PPG’s sustainability values, efforts, goals and data and our community and employee engagement programs can be found in our Sustainability Report and on our sustainability website at http://sustainability.ppg.com and on the CDP’s website at www.cdp.net.
     2020 PPG ANNUAL REPORT AND 10-K 8

We are subject to existing and evolving standards relating to the protection of the environment. In management’s opinion, the Company operates in an environmentally sound manner and is well positioned, relative to environmental matters, within the industries in which it operates. PPG is negotiating with various government agencies concerning current and former manufacturing sites and offsite waste disposal locations, including certain sites on the National Priority List. While PPG is not generally a major contributor of wastes to these offsite waste disposal locations, each potentially responsible party may face governmental agency assertions of joint and several liability. Generally, however, a final allocation of costs is made based on relative contributions of wastes to the site. There is a wide range of cost estimates for cleanup of these sites, due largely to uncertainties as to the nature and extent of their condition and the methods that may have to be employed for their remediation. The Company has established reserves for onsite and offsite remediation of those sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated.
Our experience to date regarding environmental matters leads us to believe that we will have continuing expenditures for compliance with provisions regulating the protection of the environment and for present and future remediation efforts at waste and plant sites. Management anticipates that such expenditures will occur over an extended period of time.
In addition to the $300 million currently reserved for environmental remediation efforts, we may be subject to loss contingencies related to environmental matters estimated to be approximately $100 million to $200 million. These reasonably possible unreserved losses relate to environmental matters at a number of sites, none of which are individually significant. The loss contingencies related to these sites include significant unresolved issues such as the nature and extent of contamination at these sites and the methods that may have to be employed to remediate them.
																	
($ in millions)	2020		2019		2018
Capital expenditures for environmental control projects	$12 			$15 			$20 	
It is expected that capital expenditures for such projects in 2021 will be in the range of $15 million to $25 million. Although future capital expenditures are difficult to estimate accurately because of constantly changing regulatory standards and policies, it can be anticipated that environmental control standards will become increasingly stringent and the cost of compliance will increase.
Management believes that the outcome of these environmental contingencies will not have a material adverse effect on PPG’s financial position or liquidity; however, any such outcome may be material to the results of operations of any particular period in which costs, if any, are recognized. See Note 15, “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities” under Item 8 of this Form 10-K for additional information related to environmental matters and our accrued liability for estimated environmental remediation costs.
Available Information
The Company’s website address is www.ppg.com. The Company posts, and shareholders may access without charge, the Company’s recent filings and any amendments thereto of its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and its proxy statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company also posts all financial press releases, including earnings releases, to its website. All other reports filed or furnished to the SEC, including reports on Form 8-K, are available via direct link on PPG’s website to the SEC’s website, www.sec.gov. Reference to the Company’s, the SEC’s or other websites herein does not incorporate by reference any information contained on those websites and such information should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.
