Perrigo Company plc was incorporated under the laws of Ireland on June 28, 2013. We became the successor registrant to Perrigo Company, a Michigan corporation, on December 18, 2013 in connection with the acquisition of Elan Corporation, plc ("Elan"). Unless the context requires otherwise, the terms "Perrigo", the "Company", "we," "our," "us," and similar pronouns used herein refer to Perrigo Company plc, its subsidiaries, and all predecessors of Perrigo Company plc and its subsidiaries.

WHO WE ARE

    Our vision is to make lives better by bringing Quality, Affordable Self-Care Products that consumers trust everywhere they are sold. We are a leading provider of over-the-counter ("OTC") health and wellness solutions that enhance individual well-being by empowering consumers to proactively prevent or treat conditions that can be self-managed. We are also a leading producer of generic prescription pharmaceutical topical products including creams, lotions, gels and nasal sprays. We are headquartered in Ireland and sell our products primarily in North America and Europe as well as in other markets around the world.

    This vision is designed to support our global reach as we shift our focus to our consumer branded and store brand portfolio and embrace the opportunities for growth we see ahead of us, while remaining loyal to our heritage. Our vision represents an evolution from healthcare to self-care, which takes advantage of a massive global trend and opens up a large number of adjacent growth opportunities. We define self-care as not just treating disease or helping individuals feel better after taking a product, but also maintaining and enhancing their overall health and wellness. Consistent with our vision, in 2019 Perrigo’s management and board of directors launched a three-year strategy to transform the Company into a consumer self-care leader. Significant progress has been made on our transformation journey towards achieving the major components of management’s transformation strategy, which consists of: reconfiguring the portfolio, delivering on base plans, creating repeatable platforms for growth, driving organizational effectiveness and capabilities, funding growth sustainably, allocating capital, and delivering consistent and sustainable results in line with consumer-packaged goods peers.

Segments

Our reporting and operating segments are as follows:

•Consumer Self-Care Americas ("CSCA") comprises our consumer self-care business (OTC, infant formula, and oral self-care categories, our divested animal health category, and contract manufacturing) in the U.S., Mexico and Canada.
•Consumer Self-Care International ("CSCI") comprises our consumer self-care business primarily branded in Europe and Australia, our store brand business in the United Kingdom and parts of Europe and Asia, and our divested liquid licensed products business in the United Kingdom.
•Prescription Pharmaceuticals ("RX") comprises our prescription pharmaceuticals business in the U.S., which are predominantly generics, and our pharmaceuticals and diagnostic businesses in Israel.

    We previously had two legacy segments, Specialty Sciences and Other, which contained our Tysabri® financial asset and active pharmaceutical ingredient ("API") businesses, respectively, both of which have been divested. Following these divestitures, there were no substantial assets or operations left in either of these segments. All expenses associated with our former Specialty Sciences segment were moved to unallocated expenses. Financial information related to our business segments can be found in Item 8. Note 20. Our segments reflect the way in which our management makes operating decisions, allocates resources and manages the growth and profitability of the Company.

2
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Business Overview

MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS IN OUR BUSINESS

Sale of Generic RX Pharmaceuticals Business

On March 1, 2021, we announced a definitive agreement to sell our generic RX Pharmaceuticals business to Altaris Capital Partners, LLC for total consideration of $1.55 billion, including $1.5 billion in cash. As part of the consideration, Altaris Capital Partners, LLC will also assume more than $50.0 million in potential R&D milestone payments and contingent purchase obligations with third-party Rx partners. The transaction is subject to antitrust and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close by the end of the third quarter of 2021. The sale of the generic RX Pharmaceuticals business is an important step in our transformation plan and will establish Perrigo as a pure-play consumer self-care company. The generic RX Pharmaceuticals business will be classified as discontinued operations starting in the first quarter of 2021.

CEO Contract Extension

On March 1, 2021, CEO & President Murray S. Kessler signed a three-year contract extension until October 8, 2024 to complete the Company's self-care transformation. See Item 9B. Other Information for additional details.

Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic

We have been impacted by the coronavirus (COVID-19) global pandemic and the responses by government entities to combat the virus. We currently continue to operate in all our jurisdictions and are complying with the rules and guidelines prescribed in each jurisdiction. Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis - Executive overview for a detailed discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to our business.

Share Repurchases

During the year ended December 31, 2020, we repurchased $164.2 million worth of shares at an average purchase price of $48.28 as part of our authorized share repurchase plan.

Director Appointments

During 2020, we took action to expand the expertise and knowledge base of our board of directors. On December 15, 2020, our board of directors appointed Orlando D. Ashford to serve as a director of the Company and a member of its Remuneration Committee. Also, effective July 29, 2020, our board of directors appointed Katherine C. Doyle to serve as a director of the Company and a member of its Audit Committee.    

North American Corporate Headquarters

On October 27, 2020, we announced that we will be establishing a new North American Corporate Headquarters in Grand Rapids, Michigan. We signed an agreement to lease space located in Michigan State University's Grand Rapids Innovation Park and expect the building to be ready for occupancy in mid-2022. This new location will help us support cross-functional collaboration and position us to routinely interact with a statewide education and research network within the Grand Rapids Medical Mile. This expansion is consistent with our transformation strategy and will advance our self-care vision.

Bond Issuance and Redemption

On June 19, 2020, our subsidiary Perrigo Finance Unlimited Company (“Perrigo Finance") issued $750.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.150% Senior Notes due 2030 (the "2020 Notes"), which are guaranteed by Perrigo, and received net proceeds of $737.1 million after fees and market discount. On July 6, 2020, the net proceeds of the 2020 Notes were used to fund the redemption of Perrigo Finance's $280.4 million of 3.500% Senior Notes due March 15, 2021 and $309.6 million of 3.500% Senior Notes due December 15, 2021. The balance will be used for general corporate purposes which may include the repayment or redemption of additional indebtedness. As a result of the early redemption of the Senior Notes due March 15, 2021 and Senior Notes due December 15, 2021, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded a loss of $20.0 million in Loss on extinguishment of debt on the Consolidated Statements of Operations, consisting of the premium on debt repayments, the write-off of deferred financing fees, and the write-off of the remaining bond discounts.

3
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Business Overview

Financial Asset and Royalty Pharma Contingent Milestone Payments

    During the year ended December 31, 2017, we divested the Tysabri® financial asset to Royalty Pharma for consideration consisting of $2.2 billion in upfront cash and up to $250.0 million and $400.0 million in contingent milestone payments if the royalties on global net sales of Tysabri® received by Royalty Pharma met specific thresholds in 2018 and 2020, respectively. We elected to account for the contingent milestone payments using the fair value option method, and these were recorded at an estimated fair value of $134.5 million as of December 31, 2017. During the year ended December 31, 2018, royalties on global net sales of Tysabri® received by Royalty Pharma met the 2018 threshold resulting in an increase to the asset and a gain of $170.1 million recognized in Change in financial assets on the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Also during the year ended December 31, 2018, the fair value of the remaining Royalty Pharma contingent milestone payment related to 2020 increased by $18.6 million to $73.2 million. We received the $250.0 million milestone payment during the first quarter of 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the fair value of the Royalty Pharma contingent milestone payment related to 2020 increased by $22.1 million to $95.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, Royalty Pharma payments from Biogen for Tysabri® sales, as defined in the agreement between the parties, did not exceed the 2020 global net sales threshold of $351.0 million, therefore, we are not entitled to receive the remaining contingent milestone payment of $400.0 million. Accordingly, we wrote off the entire fair value of the remaining milestone payment related to 2020, resulting in a non-cash charge of $95.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2020.

Tax Updates

As described in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis – Recent Developments, Item 1A. Risk Factors - Tax Related Risks, and Item 8. Note 15, we are engaged in tax disputes in several jurisdictions. The following update notes certain material developments in such disputes since December 31, 2019, and makes use of certain terms defined in Item 8. Note 15.

•IRS Audit (2013-2015 Tax Years). On January 13, 2021, the IRS issued a 30-day letter proposing, among     other modifications, certain transfer pricing adjustments regarding our profits from the distribution of omeprazole during our 2013 to 2015 tax years in the aggregate amount of $141.6 million. We timely filed a protest on February 26, 2021, on the grounds that certain of the government’s positions are currently the subject of pending litigation in the Western District of Michigan with respect to refund requests relating to our 2009 through 2012 tax years. We believe that we should prevail on the merits on the issues being contested. However, we have reserved for taxes and interest payable on a 5.24% deemed royalty on omeprazole, which we have conceded, through the tax year ended December 31, 2018.

•IRS NOPA (Interest Deductibility for 2014-2015 Tax Years). On January 13, 2021, we received a Revenue Agent Report (“RAR”) for our 2013-2015 tax years, which retains the adjustment from the previously disclosed Notice of Proposed Adjustment (“NOPA”) dated May 7, 2020, which disallowed interest expense deductions of $414.7 million on $7.5 billion in debts owed by Perrigo U.S. to Perrigo Company plc for the 2014 and 2015 tax years. We timely filed a protest to the RAR with the IRS. The RAR caps the interest rate on the debt for U.S federal income tax purposes at 130.0% of the Applicable Federal Rate on the stated grounds that the loans were not negotiated on an arm's-length basis. We strongly disagree with the IRS position and we will pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary.

•Irish Revenue NoA. On November 4, 2020 the Irish High Court ruled that the NoA did not violate our constitutional rights and legitimate expectations as a taxpayer. The Irish High Court did not review the technical merits of the NoA under Irish law. The Tax Appeals Commission will now consider whether the NoA is correct as a matter of Irish tax law, which is currently scheduled to be heard in November 2021. Elan Pharma will continue to vigorously pursue its appeals before the Tax Appeals Commission.

•Israeli Notice of Assessment. On December 29, 2020, we received a Stage A assessment from the Israeli Tax Authority for the 2015-2017 tax years in the amount of $63.8 million relating to attribution of intangible income to Israel, income qualifying for a lower preferential rate of tax, exemption from capital gains tax, and deduction of certain settlement payments. We have been granted an extension of time until March 28, 2021 to file a protest to move the matter to Stage B of the assessment process. We strongly disagree with the assessment and will pursue all available administrative and judicial remedies necessary.

4
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Business Overview

•IRS NOPA (Athena IPR&D Royalty Rate). In addition to pursuing other administrative and judicial remedies, on April 14, 2020, we filed a request for Competent Authority Assistance with the IRS to alleviate potential double taxation. The request was accepted and is under review.

•IRS Audit (Transfer Pricing Adjustments in 2009-2012 tax years). Our previously scheduled trial date of January 26, 2021 for our rebate claims has been continued to May 25, 2021.

Ranir Global Holdings, LLC Acquisition

    On July 1, 2019, we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interest in Ranir Global Holdings, LLC ("Ranir"), a privately-held company. After post-closing adjustments, the total cash consideration paid was $747.7 million, net of $11.5 million cash acquired. Ranir was headquartered in Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is a leading global supplier of private label and branded oral self-care products. This transaction advanced our transformation to a consumer self-care company and enhanced our position as a global leader in consumer self-care solutions. Ranir operations are reported in our CSCA and CSCI segments (refer to Item 8. Note 3).

NEW PRODUCTS

    We consider a product to be new if it (i) was reformulated, (ii) was a product line extension due to changes in characteristics such as strength, flavor, or color, (iii) had a change in product status from "prescription only" ("Rx") to OTC, (iv) was a new store brand or branded launch, (v) was provided in a new dosage form or (vi) was sold to a new geographic area with different regulatory authorities, in all cases, within 12 months prior to the end of the period for which net sales are being measured. During the year ended December 31, 2020, new product sales were $303.8 million.

CONSUMER SELF-CARE AMERICAS

Overview

    The CSCA segment is focused primarily on the sale of self-care products that help to grow our customers' overall self-care portfolio in categories including upper respiratory, pain and sleep-aids, digestive health, nutrition, vitamins, minerals and supplements, healthy lifestyle, skincare and personal hygiene, and oral self-care in the U.S., Mexico, Canada, and South America. We are a leading provider of self-care products sold to consumers via store brands. Consumer awareness and knowledge of the quality, value and efficacy that our OTC, Nutrition and Oral self-care store brand and branded products continues to grow due to efforts made by our retailers and wholesalers to promote their unique product offerings. We provide our customers self-care products under both their own brands and our brands, which are sold to consumers in store at shelf, store pickup and online. During the year ended December 31, 2020, our CSCA segment represented approximately 53% of consolidated net sales.

    The CSCA segment develops, manufactures, and markets store brand, self-care products that are comparable in quality and effectiveness to national brands. Store brand products must meet the same stringent U.S. Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") requirements as national brands within the U.S. and the requirements of comparable regulatory bodies outside the U.S. In most instances, our product packaging is designed to invite and reinforce comparison to national brand products, while communicating store brand value to consumers.

    The cost of store brand and our branded products to retailers is significantly lower than that of comparable nationally advertised brand name products. Generally, retailers’ dollar profit per unit of store brand product is greater than the dollar profit per unit of the comparable national brand product. The retailer, therefore, can price a store brand product below the competing national brand product and realize a greater profit margin. The consumer benefits by receiving a high-quality product at a price below the comparable national brand product. As a result, our business model results in consumers saving money on their self-care needs.
    
    We are dedicated to continuing to be the leader in developing and marketing new store brand and branded products and have a research and development ("R&D") staff that we believe is one of the most experienced in the industry at developing products comparable in formulation and quality to national brand products. In order to offer consumers product features or benefits that national brand companies do not offer, we have implemented a product development strategy to differentiate store brand and our branded products from national brands. Our R&D team also responds to changes in existing national brand products by reformulating existing products. For example, in the OTC pharmaceutical market, certain new products are the result of changes in product status from Rx-to-OTC.
5
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCA

These “Rx-to-OTC switches” require FDA approval through a process initiated by the drug innovator. The drug innovator usually begins the process by filing a New Drug Application ("NDA"), which is often followed by a competitor filing an Abbreviated New Drug Application ("ANDA"). Global regulatory agencies highly scrutinize any product application submitted to switch a product from physician prescribed Rx to OTC. New drugs are also marketed through the FDA's OTC monograph process, which allows us to produce drugs that are generally recognized as safe and effective without pre-marketing approval. In the oral self-care category, we focus on creating products that are equivalent to the national brands, and also partner with our customers to create exclusive brands and differentiated products. We rely on both internal R&D and strategic product development agreements with outside sources to develop new products.

    The CSCA segment also develops, manufactures, and distributes certain branded products, which are consistent with the segment's self-care strategy. Branded products sold under brand names include Prevacid®24HR, Good Sense®, Zephrex D®, ScarAway®, Plackers®, Rembrandt®, Steripod®, Firefly®, REACH®, and Dr. Fresh® .

    We manufacture a significant portion of our CSCA segment's products at our plants located in the U.S., Mexico, China, and Israel, and we source the remaining materials and products from third parties. In addition, in order to maximize both our capacity and sales of proprietary formulas, we engage in contract manufacturing, which involves producing unique ANDAs and monograph products through partnerships with major pharmaceutical and direct-to-consumer companies.

    We believe the increasing age of the global population, continued rising healthcare costs, and consumers who proactively prevent or treat conditions will drive the need for the enhanced value that our products provide to consumers, which creates strong dynamics for U.S. OTC market growth. Another level of growth includes share gains against store brand competitors and store brand penetration gains versus national brands. In addition, we believe that new products, including new product innovation and products switching from Rx-to-OTC status (as described above) will continue to drive growth within the segment.

Recent Trends and Developments

•In March and April of 2020, we experienced a surge in demand for many of our OTC and infant nutrition products, which we attributed to consumer reaction to the outbreak of COVID-19. In May and June of 2020, the initial surge slowed, and we experienced a decrease in demand for some of these products, which we attributed primarily to the de-load of consumer pantry stocking that occurred during the initial March and April surge. During the fourth quarter of 2020, net sales of cough and cold products decreased as a result of the decline in total cough cold illnesses, which we believe is attributed to social distancing and mask mandates put in place to combat COVID-19. With social distancing and mask mandates continuing, we currently anticipate that we will continue to experience lower demand for cough and cold products into the first half of 2021. Alternatively, it is possible that we could experience additional surges in demand if further concentrated waves of COVID-19 occur.

•On January 11, 2021, we announced that we entered into a formal partnership with Michigan State University that will combine the university's clinical and research expertise with our product innovation, manufacturing scale and retail partnerships to form a new model for self-care innovation. We believe this partnership has the potential to yield customized transformative self-care solutions for consumers.

•On June 17, 2020, we announced our entrance into the cannabidiol ("CBD") market through a strategic investment in and long-term supply agreement with Kazmira LLC ("Kazmira"), a leading supplier of hemp-based, CBD products free of tetrahydrocannabinol ("zero-THC"). In addition to the supply agreement, we acquired an approximate 20% equity stake in Kazmira for $50.0 million with $15.0 million paid at close of the transaction and the balance due within 18 months. Our minority equity investment initiates the first phase of the partnership in which we will collaborate to scale-up Kazmira’s facilities and laboratories, in accordance with current Good Manufacturing Practices and to produce zero-THC CBD from industrial hemp that meets our standards for reliability and consistency. In the second phase of the partnership, we will work to launch zero-THC, hemp-based CBD products in a number of global markets, while leveraging our supply agreement with Kazmira, which is exclusive for the U.S. store brand market (refer to Item 8. Note 8 and Note 11).

6
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCA

•On April 1, 2020, we received approval from the FDA to sell OTC diclofenac sodium topical gel 1%, the store brand equivalent to Voltaren® gel. On September 8, 2020, we launched this product to our retail partners under store brand labels, which provides consumers with a high-quality, value alternative for the temporary relief of arthritis pain.

•On April 1, 2020, we acquired the oral care assets of High Ridge Brands ("Dr. Fresh") for total purchase consideration of $113.0 million, subject to customary post-closing adjustments, including a working capital settlement. After post-closing adjustments, as of December 31, 2020, total cash consideration paid was $106.2 million. This acquisition includes the children’s oral care value brand, Firefly®, in addition to the REACH® and Dr. Fresh® brands, and a licensing portfolio. The addition of these brands positions us as the number one fastest-growing value brand player in the children’s oral care category and the licensing portfolio will enable creative solutions for our customers (refer to Item 8. Note 3).

•On January 3, 2020, we acquired Steripod®, a leading toothbrush accessory brand and innovator in the toothbrush protector market, from Bonfit America Inc. Total consideration paid was $26.0 million. The transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition, in which we capitalized $25.1 million as a brand-named intangible asset. The remainder of the purchase price was allocated to working capital. The acquisition, which includes a portfolio of antibacterial toothbrush protectors, kids’ toothbrush protectors and tongue cleaners, complements our current portfolio of oral self-care products, and leverages our manufacturing and marketing platform (refer to Item 8. Note 3).

Products

    Our CSCA segment offers products in the following categories:

								
Product Category		Description
Pain and sleep-aids		Products comprised of pain relievers, fever reducers and sleep-aids.
Upper respiratory		Products that relieve upper respiratory symptoms, including cough suppressants, expectorants, sinus and allergy relief.
Digestive health		Products such as antacids, anti-diarrheal, and anti-heartburn that relieve symptoms associated with digestive issues.
Nutrition		Infant formulas and nutritional beverages.
Healthy lifestyle		Products that help consumers live a healthy lifestyle such as smoking cessation, diabetes care, and well-being products.
Skincare and personal hygiene		Products for the face and body such as dermatological care, scar management, lice treatment, and other products for various skin conditions.
Oral self-care		Products used for oral care, including toothbrushes, toothbrush replacement heads, floss, flossers, whitening products and toothbrush covers.
Vitamins, minerals and supplements ("VMS")		Vitamins, minerals, and supplements.
Other		Diagnostic products and other miscellaneous self-care products.
7
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCA


    The chart below reflects net sales by product category in the CSCA segment, which includes net sales from our OTC contract manufacturing business for the year ended December 31, 2020.
    prgo-20201231_g2.jpg
We launched several new CSCA products in the year ended December 31, 2020, most notably a store brand infant formula launch at a major retailer, Prevacid®, Diclofenac sodium topical gel 1%, and Esomeprazole Mini. During the year ended December 31, 2020, new product sales in the CSCA segment were $72.0 million.

    We, on our own or in conjunction with partners, received final FDA approval for three new products within the CSCA segment in the year ended December 31, 2020, and as of December 31, 2020, we had three new product applications pending FDA approval.

Sales and Marketing
    Our customers include major global, national, and regional retail drug, supermarket, and mass merchandise chains such as Walmart, Costco, CVS, Target, Walgreens Boots Alliance, Kroger, Dollar General, Sam’s Club, Topco, e-commerce stores including Amazon, and major wholesalers, including McKesson, Amerisource Bergen, and Cardinal Health.

    We seek to establish customer loyalty through superior customer service by providing a comprehensive assortment of high quality, affordable products; timely processing, shipment and delivery of orders; assistance in managing customer inventories; and support in managing and building the customer’s self-care market portfolio including their store brand business, trade and digital marketing activities. The CSCA segment employs its own sales force to service larger customers and uses industry brokers for other customers. Field sales employees, with support from marketing and customer service team members, are assigned to specific customers in order to work most effectively with the customer. The commercial organization provides our customers with customized in-store and digital marketing programs for all products we supply in the customers' self-care market portfolio.

    The primary objective of this management approach is to enable our retail, e-commerce, and wholesale customers to increase sales and market share of their overall self-care portfolio. We partner with our retailers to provide customized store brand and branded products that provide quality and value to consumers. We invite comparison of store brand and our branded products to national brand products. Our sales and marketing personnel assist customers in the development and introduction of new store brand and our branded products, and in the promotion of customers’ existing store brand and our branded products by providing market information;
8
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCA

establishing individualized promotions and marketing programs, which may include floor displays, bonus sizes, coupons, rebates, store signs, and promotional packs; and performing consumer research. As e-commerce, an area that has experienced significant and accelerated growth during 2020, due in part to the COVID-19 pandemic, continues to grow as a consumer channel for our products, we see consumers seeking more of their self-care product needs online. We have developed resources, programs and tools to be a strategic marketing partner for our customers’ digital marketing efforts. This provides our customers with a holistic campaign to convert shoppers to store brand whether they shop in-store or online.

    In contrast to national brand manufacturers, which incur considerable advertising and marketing expenditures targeted directly to the end user or consumer, the CSCA segment’s primary marketing efforts are channeled through retailers and wholesalers and reach the consumer through our customers’ in-store marketing programs and our digital media programs. Because the retail profit margin for store brand and our branded products is generally higher than national brand products, retailers and wholesalers often commit funds for additional promotions.

    In addition to in-store marketing programs, team members in our nutrition category market products directly to consumers and healthcare professionals.

Competition

    The markets for our self-care products are highly competitive and differ for each product line and geographic region. Our primary competitors include manufacturers, such as Dr. Reddy's Labs, LNK International, Inc., PL Developments and Aurobindo, and brand-name pharmaceutical and consumer product companies, such as Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, Abbott Nutrition, Bayer AG, Sanofi, and Philips. The various major categories of our CSCA business each have certain key competitors, such that a competitor generally does not compete across all product lines. However, some competitors do have larger sales volumes in certain of our categories. Additionally, national brand companies tend to have more resources committed to marketing their products and could in the future manufacture store brand versions of their products at lower prices than their national brand products. Competition is based on a variety of factors, including price, quality, assortment of products, customer service, marketing support, and approvals for new products (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for additional information and risks associated with competition).

CONSUMER SELF-CARE INTERNATIONAL

Overview

    The CSCI segment is comprised of our consumer self-care business outside of North America, including our branded business in Europe and Australia and our store brand businesses in the United Kingdom and parts of Europe and Asia. This segment also included the divested United Kingdom liquid licensed products business, which was sold on June 19, 2020. The CSCI segment develops, manufactures, markets, and distributes many well-known European consumer self-care brands in the upper respiratory, pain and sleep-aids, digestive health, vitamins, minerals and supplements, healthy lifestyle, skincare and personal hygiene, and oral self-care categories. The segment leverages its broad regulatory, sales, and distribution infrastructure to innovate new products and brands, in-license and expand product lines, and sell and distribute third-party brands. The CSCI segment sells these products through an extensive network of customers including pharmacies, wholesalers, drug and grocery store retailers, and para-pharmacies in more than 30 countries, primarily in Europe. Many CSCI products have leading positions in the markets in which they compete. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the CSCI segment represented approximately 28% of consolidated net sales.

    Through continued investment in R&D partnerships and new technologies, the CSCI segment strives to offer high quality self-care products that meet consumers' needs. Internal R&D, new product development, insourcing, acquisitions, and partnerships support the new product pipeline, both in terms of brand extensions and product improvements. In the U.K., R&D focuses on the development of both store brand and branded products. Additional R&D centers are located in France, Sweden, Austria, Belgium, China, the Netherlands, and Germany. In the rest of Europe, most R&D is performed by external partners with oversight from our teams. The segment has seven plants dedicated to manufacturing certain of its products.

    The CSCI segment primarily focuses on building local and regional brands sold through mass merchandisers, drug stores, individual and chain pharmacies, and e-commerce channels.
9
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCI


    While the CSCI segment sells over 200 brands, primarily its own, we concentrate our resources on "Focus Brands", consisting of approximately 20 key brands and sub-brands. These are selected on the basis of their current sales and growth potential in the self-care market. Additional resources, including R&D investments, are allocated to these Focus Brands to strengthen their market position in high opportunity profit categories while leveraging the same R&D efforts under smaller local brands.

Recent Trends and Developments

•Throughout the year, we experienced demand shifts for certain products, which we attributed to consumer dynamics related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the movement and social distancing restrictions put in place to combat spreading of the virus, such as travel bans and country lock-downs, as well as mask mandates. Demand for certain products in our pain and sleep-aids and vitamins, minerals and supplements ("VMS") categories increased, while demand for products in our upper respiratory, skincare and personal hygiene, and healthy lifestyle categories decreased. It is possible that demand in these categories may continue to decrease.

•On October 30, 2020, we acquired three Eastern European OTC dermatological brands, skincare brands Emolium®, Iwostin® and hair loss treatment brand Loxon® from Sanofi for €53.3 million ($62.3 million). The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination. The addition of these brands complements our already robust skincare portfolio and adds scale to our Eastern European business. The addition of these market-leading OTC brands serves as another step for our growth plans and provides new opportunities for self-care revenue synergy in the European markets (refer to Item 8. Note 3).

•Consistent with our strategy to reconfigure our portfolio to focus on our consumer self-care businesses, on June 19, 2020, we completed the sale of our U.K.- based Rosemont Pharmaceuticals business, a generic prescription pharmaceuticals manufacturer focused on liquid medicines, to a U.K. headquartered private equity firm for cash consideration of £155.6 million (approximately $195.0 million), which resulted in a pre-tax loss of $21.1 million (refer to Item 8. Note 3).

•On February 13, 2020, we acquired Dexsil®, a silicon supplement brand, from RXW Group NV, for total cash consideration paid of approximately $8.0 million. The transaction was accounted for as an asset acquisition, in which we capitalized the consideration paid as a brand-named intangible asset. The acquisition provides additional opportunities for growth through new product launches and geographic expansion (refer to Item 8. Note 3).

10
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCI

Products

    Our CSCI segment offers products and Focus Brands in the following categories:

														
Product Category		Description		Focus Brands
Pain and sleep-aids		Products comprised of pain relievers, fever reducers and sleep-aids.		
Solpadeine®
Nytol®
Upper respiratory		Products that relieve upper respiratory symptoms, including cough suppressants, expectorants, sinus and allergy relief.		
Aflubin®
Bronchenolo®/Bronchostop®
Physiomer®
Phytosun®
Coldrex®
Prevalin®/Beconase®
Digestive health		Products such as antacids, anti-diarrheal, and anti-heartburn that relieve symptoms associated with digestive issues.		
Healthy lifestyle		Products that help consumers live a healthy lifestyle such as smoking cessation, weight management, diabetes care, and well-being products.		
Niquitin®
XLS (Medical)®
Yokebe®
Skincare and personal hygiene		Products for the face and body such as dermatological care, sun protection, scar management, lice treatment, insect repellents, and other products for various skin conditions.		
ACO®
Biodermal®
Canoderm®
Dermalex®
Lactacyd®
Wartner®
Jungle Formula®
Paranix®
Pencivir®
Oral self-care		Products used for oral care, including toothbrushes, toothbrush replacement heads, floss, flossers, and whitening products.		
Plackers®

Vitamins, minerals and supplements ("VMS")		Vitamins, minerals, and supplements.		
Abtei®
Arterin®
Davitamon®
Granufink®
Other		Diagnostic products and other miscellaneous self-care products.		

11
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCI

    The chart below reflects net sales by product category in the CSCI segment for the year ended December 31, 2020.
prgo-20201231_g3.jpg
    We launched a number of new CSCI products in the year ended December 31, 2020, most notably are line extensions in the XLS Forte-Five weight management brand and ACO® brands in the healthy lifestyle and skincare and personal hygiene categories, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2020, new product sales in the CSCI segment were $98.1 million.

    The CSCI segment has more than 150 strategic new products across all product categories in development, with each of its Focus Brands having a five-year innovation master plan.
Sales and Marketing

    Our products are sold to customers including pharmacies as well as, drug, grocery, and e-commerce stores located primarily in Europe, such as Walgreens Boots Alliance, McKesson, AS Watson, Tesco, ASDA, DM, Rossman, Carrefour, and Amazon. The CSCI segment continues to align its sales and marketing organization with current market trends by significantly increasing resources towards e-commerce and key account management. The segment sells its products primarily through an established pharmacy sales force to an extensive network of individual pharmacists. Our sales representatives visit pharmacists frequently, ensuring strong in-store visibility of our brands and facilitating pharmacist education programs. Our sales, marketing, and regulatory teams use training/merchandising teams who work in conjunction with local sales representatives to improve our brands' presence and recognition. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have combined our traditional sales efforts with telesales to find the optimal sales model and to keep employees and customers safe. We seek to attract key talent from leading OTC, Fast Moving Consumer Goods ("FMCG"), and retailer companies to build strong local teams throughout the countries in which the CSCI segment operates.

    The CSCI segment markets products using intensive broadcast advertising and point-of-sale promotional spending to enhance brand equity. Key marketing communication tools for the CSCI segment include television and digital commercials, consumer leaflets, product websites, targeted promotional campaigns and communication programs for health care professionals.
12
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
CSCI


Competition

    The competitive landscape of the European consumer products market in the categories in which we compete is highly fragmented, as local companies often hold leadership positions in individual product lines in particular countries. As a result, the relevant competition in each of the CSCI segment's markets is both local and global. Global competitors include GSK, Sanofi, Bayer, Johnson & Johnson, Reckitt Benckiser, Teva, Viatris, Stada, Novartis, Procter & Gamble, and e-commerce companies, as well as additional regional competitors. We believe our key advantage lies in our unique combination of best practices in sales, marketing, and product development (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for additional information and risks associated with competition).

PRESCRIPTION PHARMACEUTICALS

Overview

    The RX segment develops, manufactures, and markets a portfolio of generic prescription drugs primarily for sale in the U.S. We define this portfolio as predominantly "extended topicals", as it encompasses a broad array of dosage forms such as creams, ointments, lotions, gels, shampoos, foams, suppositories, sprays, liquids, suspensions, and solutions. The portfolio also includes select injectables, hormones, oral solid dosage forms, oral liquid formulations, and controlled substances. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the RX segment represented approximately 19% of consolidated net sales.

    In addition to extended topical products, which are the focus of our development efforts, our current development areas include other delivery systems such as uni-dose nasal sprays, ophthalmic, pre-filled syringes, injectables, and transdermal products, some of which we are developing with third parties. Our other areas of expertise include our production capabilities for controlled substances and hormonal products. Our R&D efforts focus on complex formulations, some of which require costly and/or complex clinical trials.

    We manufacture our products in the U.S. and Israel, and also source from various FDA-approved third parties. RX products are manufactured, labeled, and packaged in facilities that comply with strict FDA regulatory standards.

    We actively collaborate with other pharmaceutical companies to develop, manufacture, and market certain products or groups of products. These types of collaboration agreements are common in the pharmaceutical industry. We may choose to enter into these types of agreements to, among other things, leverage our or our collaborators' R&D and manufacturing expertise, or utilize our extensive marketing and distribution infrastructure (refer to Item 8. Note 2 for more information regarding our method for recognizing revenue and expenses related to collaboration agreements, as well as Item 8. Note 18 for more information regarding our collaboration agreements).

Recent Trends and Developments

•On March 1, 2021, we announced a definitive agreement to sell our generic RX Pharmaceuticals business to Altaris Capital Partners, LLC for total consideration of $1.55 billion, including $1.5 billion in cash. As part of the consideration, Altaris Capital Partners, LLC will also assume more than $50.0 million in potential R&D milestone payments and contingent purchase obligations with third-party Rx partners. The transaction is subject to antitrust and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close by the end of the third quarter of 2021. The sale of the generic RX Pharmaceuticals business is an important step in our transformation plan and will establish Perrigo as a pure-play consumer self-care company. The generic RX Pharmaceuticals business will be classified as discontinued operations starting in the first quarter of 2021.

•We continued to experience pricing erosion, which moderated compared to the prior year. The key drivers behind the pricing reductions were competitive regulatory approvals for products in our portfolio resulting in increased competition. We expect pricing erosion to continue to impact the segment.

•Starting in the second quarter of 2020, with a partial rebound in the third quarter, we experienced a reduction in demand for certain of our existing base products due to lower prescription volumes driven by the COVID-19 pandemic impact on doctor visits. The decrease in demand for existing base products was market-wide.

13
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
RX
•On December 31, 2020, we purchased an Abbreviated New Drug Application ("ANDA") for a generic topical gel for $16.4 million payable in January 2021, which we capitalized as a developed product technology intangible asset. We launched the product in January 2021 and began amortizing it over a 20-year useful life.

•On September 17, 2020, we initiated a voluntary nationwide recall to the retail level of albuterol sulfate inhalation aerosol ("Albuterol") and market withdrawal as a result of complaints from patients that some units may not dispense due to clogging. While corrective action plans are underway, we do not expect to reintroduce the product in calendar year 2021. As a result of the recall, we recorded a net charge of $22.5 million in our Consolidated Statements of Operations during the third quarter. We, along with our manufacturing partner Catalent Pharma Solutions, launched Albuterol in the first quarter of 2020 after receiving approval from the FDA of our ANDA on February 24, 2020.

•During the three months ended September 26, 2020, our RX U.S. reporting unit had an indication of potential impairment primarily from the stoppage of production and distribution of Albuterol and voluntary nationwide recall at the retail level, combined with a decline in market multiples. We prepared an impairment test as of September 26, 2020 and determined the carrying value of the RX U.S. reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value. We recorded a goodwill impairment of $202.4 million.

•During the three months ended December 31, 2020, we identified indicators of impairment in our RX U.S. reporting unit and performed a quantitative impairment test. As a result, we determined the reporting unit’s carrying value exceeded estimated fair value. We recognized a further goodwill impairment of $144.4 million.

•As described in Item 1. Business - Materials Sourcing, we rely on third parties to source many of our raw materials and to manufacture certain dosage forms that we distribute, and certain of these supplier relationships are single-source. Starting in the second quarter of 2021, we anticipate a potential supply disruption of a generic prescription product manufactured by a third party, which disruption could adversely affect our ability to sell and ship the product to customers in a timely manner. While we have identified one or more potential alternative suppliers of the product, delays in qualifying such alternative supplier may result in a supply disruption for the duration of 2021 and re-establishment of reliable supply may not be achieved until 2022 and cannot be assured. If a supply disruption occurs, depending on the duration of the disruption, the adverse impact on our revenue in the RX segment in 2021 could be material. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks.

Products

    Listed below are some of the generic prescription products, including authorized generic products, that we manufacture and/or distribute:
								
Generic Name (1)
		Comparative Brand-Name Drug
Acyclovir cream		
Zovirax®
Alogliptin tabs		
Nesina®
Bacitracin ophthalmic ointment		N/A
Betamethasone calcipotriene ointment and suspension		
Taclonex®
Clindamycin phosphate topical solution		
Cleocin T®
Erythromycin ophthalmic ointment		N/A
Hydrocortisone pramoxine cream		
Pramosone®
Ketoconazole shampoo		
Nizoral®
Mesalamine rectal		
Rowasa®
Permethrin cream		
Elimite®
Tacrolimus ointment		
Protopic®
Testosterone 1.62% gel 		
Androgel®
Testosterone cypionate injection		
Depo®, Testosterone
Tretinoin cream and gel		
Retin-A®
Triamcinolone cream/ointment		
Triderm™/Kenalog™

(1)    Contains the same active ingredients present in the same dosage form as the comparable brand-name drug

14
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
RX
    We launched a number of new RX products in the year ended December 31, 2020, most notably Albuterol Sulfate Inhalation Aerosol (generic equivalent to ProAir HFA®) (which we voluntarily recalled in September 2020, as described above). During the year ended December 31, 2020, net new product sales in the RX segment were $133.7 million.
    
    During the year ended December 31, 2020, we, on our own or in collaboration with partners, received final approval from FDA health authorities for ten Rx drug applications, and as of December 31, 2020, we had 30 Rx drug applications pending approval with the FDA or pending launch.

Sales and Marketing

    Our customers include sourcing groups such as Red Oak, WBAD and ClarusONE, major wholesalers, national and regional retail drug, supermarket and mass merchandise chains, hospitals, and pharmacies.

Competition

    The market for RX products is subject to intense competition from other generic drug manufacturers, brand-name pharmaceutical companies launching a generic version of their own branded products (known as an authorized generic), manufacturers of branded drug products that continue to produce those products after patent expirations, and manufacturers of therapeutically similar drugs. Among our generic drug manufacturer competitors are Sandoz Inc., Taro Pharmaceuticals, Viatris, Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., Glenmark Generics Inc., and Lupin.

    We believe that one of our primary competitive advantages is our ability to introduce difficult to develop and/or manufacture extended topical generic versions to brand-name drug products. Generally, these products are exposed to less competition due to the more complex and expensive development, clinical trial, or approval processes. In addition, we believe we have a favorable competitive position due primarily to our efficient distribution systems, topical production economies of scale, customer service, and overall reputation for high quality products (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for more information and risks associated with competition).

INFORMATION APPLICABLE TO ALL REPORTABLE SEGMENTS

Trademarks, Patents and Licensing Agreements

    While we own certain trademarks and patents, neither our business as a whole, nor any of our segments, is materially dependent upon our ownership of any one trademark, or patent, or group of trademarks or patents.

Materials Sourcing

    Affordable, high-quality raw materials and packaging components are essential to all of our business units due to the nature of the products we manufacture. Raw materials and packaging components are generally available from multiple suppliers. Supplies of certain raw materials and product delivery systems may be more limited, as they are available from one or only a few suppliers and may require extensive compatibility testing before we can use them. We have been purchasing an increasing number of components and select finished goods rather than manufacturing them because of the availability of goods, economic reasons, temporary production limitations, FDA restrictions, sale of our API businesses, and other factors.

    Historically, we have been able to react effectively, yet not always immediately, to situations that require alternate sourcing. Should such alternate sourcing be necessary, FDA requirements placed on products approved through the ANDA or NDA process could substantially lengthen the approval of an alternate source and adversely affect financial results. We believe we have good, cooperative working relationships with substantially all of our suppliers and have historically been able to capitalize on economies of scale in the purchase of materials and supplies due to our volume of purchases (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for risks associated with materials sourcing).

15
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1

Manufacturing and Distribution

    Our primary manufacturing facilities are in the U.S. We also have manufacturing facilities in the U.K., Belgium, France, Germany, Austria, Israel, Mexico, China, and Australia, along with a joint venture in China (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for risks associated with our manufacturing facilities). We supplement our production capabilities with the purchase of products from outside sources. The capacity of some facilities may be fully utilized at certain times for various reasons, such as customer demand, the seasonality of certain product categories (for example, our cough/cold/flu and allergy products), and new product launches. We may utilize available capacity by performing contract manufacturing for other companies. We have logistics facilities in the U.S., Israel, Mexico, Australia, and numerous locations throughout Europe. We use contract freight and common carriers to deliver our products.

Significant Customers

    Our primary customer base aligns with the concentration of large drug retailers in the current global retail drug industry marketplace. Walmart is our largest customer and accounted for the following percentage of consolidated net sales:
														
Year Ended
December 31,
2020		December 31,
2019		December 31,
2018
13.3 	%		13.0 	%		12.8 	%

     Sales to Walmart are primarily in the CSCA segment. In addition, while no other customer individually comprises more than 10% of net sales, we do have other significant customers. The next five largest customers represent 23.2% of net sales in 2020. The loss of several of these customers could be material. We believe we generally have good relationships with all our customers (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for risks associated with customers).

Environmental

    Our facilities and operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations. We undergo periodic internal audits relating to environmental, health and safety requirements in order to maintain compliance with applicable laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. We have made, and continue to make, expenditures necessary to comply with applicable environmental laws; however, we do not believe that the costs for complying with such laws and regulations have been or will be material to our business. We do not have any material remediation liabilities outstanding.

    While we believe that climate change could present risks to our business, including increased operating costs due to additional regulatory requirements, physical risks to our facilities, water limitations, and disruptions to our supply chain, we do not believe these risks are material to our business in the near term.
    
Human Capital Resources

    We are passionate about making lives better. At Perrigo, we believe that the continuous personal and professional development of our people is an important component of our ability to attract, retain, and motivate top talent, which are all important aspects of our self-care strategy. Our global workforce consists of more than 11,500 full time and part time employees spread across 34 countries, of which approximately 17% were covered by collective bargaining agreements as of December 31, 2020. We continuously endeavor to provide a diverse, inclusive, and safe work environment so our colleagues can bring their best to work, every day. We are all responsible for upholding Perrigo’s Core Values - Integrity, Respect, and Responsibility - in addition to the Perrigo Code of Conduct which, together, form the foundation of all our policies, procedures, and practices. Together, we drive Perrigo forward to deliver on our vision to make lives better by bringing Quality, Affordable Self-Care Products that consumers trust everywhere they are sold.

Diversity and Inclusion

We strive for our employees, including senior management, to represent the diverse consumer base we wish to serve which enables us to deliver on our self-care promise. We believe diversity and inclusion in our
16
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1

workforce creates lasting benefits for Perrigo, our customers, and shareholders through enhanced team performance, innovation, and profitable growth. To accomplish this objective, we rolled out a three-year strategy at the beginning of 2020 that focuses on three key diversity and inclusion areas:

•Educating our workforce on our diversity and inclusion strategy and initiatives;
•Strengthening our talent management practices through a lens of inclusion; and
•Creating our diversity and inclusion governance and metrics to establish our foundation and help us monitor progress.

Perrigo is committed to the well-being of the communities we serve and the people who work for us. Accordingly, we are taking action to help address racial inequality. We understand the devastating impact that systemic racism, injustice, and acts of violence have on communities of color. Murray Kessler, President and CEO, has encouraged all Perrigo colleagues to stand united and take responsibility to learn how each of us can play a role in fighting both discrimination and implicit bias in the work place and in our society as a whole. These efforts include our leaders and associates continually receiving educational resources and information on how to best serve as allies in support of underrepresented groups and to learn how we can contribute to healing our society's divisions and ending racial injustice.

Compensation, Benefits, Health, Safety, and Well-being

Perrigo’s commitment to self-care starts with our own team. Our top priority during the global COVID-19 pandemic has been, and continues to be, the safety of our colleagues. When faced with the challenges of this pandemic, we focused on understanding and supporting each diverse individual and the unique circumstances impacting their ability to serve as an essential worker. We have implemented safety measures to protect our on-site essential colleagues, while asking those who can safely work from home to do so. On-site, we've implemented a multi-step pre-screening process before entry into any facility, deep-cleaning protocols, and other safety precautions, all consistent with the rules and guidelines in each jurisdiction. As a thank you for their bravery and commitment, management issued a special cash bonus for our colleagues who worked on-site to keep our products flowing to our customers and consumers.

We strive to provide pay, benefits and services that support the total well-being of our people. Our total rewards package delivers competitive pay, broad-based stock grants, cash-based annual incentives, healthcare, retirement benefits, paid time off, and on-site services, among other benefits.

Perrigo’s total rewards complement a strong health and safety culture that continues with our global well-being program designed to inspire colleagues to maintain and improve their health. Launched in 2016, Perrigo’s "HEALTHYyou" well-being program continues to support colleagues and their families as they navigate their own self-care and well-being journeys. Our colleagues highly value this program and it continues to be recognized externally by receiving the Best and Brightest in Wellness™ Award since 2017.

Growth, Development, and Engagement

We are committed to engaging our colleagues and fostering a belonging culture, where our people feel enabled to contribute their best to Perrigo's self-care transformation. This includes initiatives supporting overall job satisfaction, diversity and inclusion, personal and professional skill development, work/life balance, and an environment that encourages good health and safety, while upholding our core values of Integrity, Respect, and Responsibility.

Perrigo regularly conducts global engagement surveys to gather feedback from colleagues to identify strengths and opportunities within our culture. Additionally, we use a variety of channels to facilitate open and direct communication, including regular open forums and town hall meetings with our executive leadership team.

Our development philosophy focuses on a 70-20-10 approach, which provides a practical, blended framework for learning to support individual long-term success (where individuals obtain 70% of their knowledge from job-related experiences, 20% from interactions with others, and 10% from formal educational events). We believe this model enables our people to deliver on our self-care vision by empowering them to be their best and make a difference to Perrigo Colleagues, Customers, Consumers, Communities, and Shareholders.

17
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1

Corporate Social Responsibility

    We are committed to doing business in a socially, environmentally and fiscally responsible manner. That commitment is reflected in our well-established governance, corporate responsibility and sustainability programs, as well as by our board oversight of governance and sustainability. A summary of our environmental and social initiatives is below and additional details can be found in our 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Report available on our website. In 2020, we adopted the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDG”) as a global framework and committed to six goals within the UN SDG framework. Our specific objectives related to each of these goals are detailed in our 2020 CSR report, and will be updated in our 2021 CSR report which we expect to publish in mid-2021.

•Environmental: we are committed to manufacturing our products responsibly, supporting the global drive to reduce carbon emissions and minimize our impact on the climate. We formalized our commitment to sustainability in 2015 by establishing a corporate sustainability strategy focused on reducing the environmental impact of our operations, product packaging, and supply chain. In 2020, we enhanced that strategy by committing to Goal 12: Responsible Production and Consumption and Goal 13: Climate Action, of the UN SDG.

•Social: Our vision is to make lives better, by bringing quality affordable self-care products that consumers trust, everywhere they are sold. This puts the social impact of our business front and center. We are proud to maintain goals and programs relating to Diversity and Inclusion, Human Capital Management, Human Rights, and Community Engagement and Giving. In 2020, as part of our social initiatives, we committed to Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being, Goal 4: Quality Education, Goal 5: Gender Equality, and Goal 10: Reducing Inequality, of the UN SDG.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND PRICING

    The manufacturing, processing, formulation, packaging, labeling, testing, storing, distributing, advertising, and selling of our products are subject to regulation by a variety of agencies in the localities in which our products are sold. In addition, we manufacture and market certain of our products in accordance with standards set by various organizations. We believe that our policies, operations, and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which we are subject (refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks for related risks).

United States Regulation

U.S. Food and Drug Administration

    The FDA has jurisdiction over our prescription and OTC drug products, API, and Infant Formula products. The FDA’s jurisdiction extends to the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of these products. We are committed to consistently providing our customers with high quality products that adhere to "current Good Manufacturing Practices" ("cGMP") regulations promulgated by the FDA. If the FDA or comparable regulatory authority becomes aware of new safety information about any of our products, these authorities may require further inspection, enhancement to manufacturing controls, labeling changes, additional testing method requirements, restrictions on indicated uses or marketing, post-approval studies or post-market surveillance.

OTC and Prescription Pharmaceuticals

    All facilities where prescription and OTC products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, or distributed for the U.S. market must comply with FDA cGMPs and regulations promulgated by competent authorities in the countries, states and localities where the facilities are located. All of our drug products are manufactured, tested, packaged, stored, and distributed according to cGMP regulations. The FDA performs periodic audits to ensure that our facilities remain in compliance with all appropriate regulations.

    Many of our OTC products are regulated under the OTC monograph system and subject to certain FDA regulations. Under this system, selected OTC drugs are generally recognized as safe and effective and do not require the approval of an ANDA or NDA prior to marketing. Products marketed under the OTC monograph system must conform to specific quality, formula, and labeling requirements, including permitted indications, required
18
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

warnings and precautions, allowable combinations of ingredients, and dosage levels. It is generally less costly to develop and bring to market a product regulated under the OTC monograph system.

            We also market generic prescription drugs and non-prescription products that have switched from prescription to OTC status. Prior to commercial marketing, these products require approval by the FDA of an ANDA or NDA that provides information on chemistry, manufacturing controls, clinical safety, efficacy and/or bioequivalence, packaging, and labeling. While the development process for these drugs generally requires less time and expense than the development process of a new drug, the size and duration of required studies can vary greatly. Prior to the onset of the Generic Drug User Fee Amendments of 2012 (“GDUFA”), the FDA approval of generic drug applications took approximately three to five times longer than approval of innovator drugs. Pursuant to GDUFA II, during fiscal year 2019, the FDA exceeded its pledge to complete a first cycle review on 90% of electronic generic applications within 10 months of submission.

    Under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, as amended ("FFDCA") (the Hatch-Waxman amendments), a company submitting an NDA can obtain a three-year period of marketing exclusivity for a prescription or OTC product if it performs a clinical study that is essential to FDA approval. Longer periods of exclusivity are possible for new chemical entities, orphan drugs (those designated under section 526 of the FFDCA) and drugs under the Generating Antibiotic Incentives Now Act. During this exclusivity period, the FDA cannot approve any ANDAs for a similar or equivalent generic product, which can preclude another party from marketing a similar product during this period. A company may obtain an additional six months of exclusivity if it conducts pediatric studies requested by the FDA on the product. This exclusivity can delay both the FDA approval and sales of certain products.

    A company may be entitled to a 180-day generic exclusivity period for certain products. This exclusivity period often follows a patent certification and litigation process whereby the product innovator may sue for infringement. The legal action does not ordinarily result in material damages, but it generally triggers a statutorily mandated delay in FDA approval of the ANDA for a period of up to 30 months from when the innovator was notified of the patent challenge.

    The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act ("FDASIA") was signed into law on July 9, 2012. The law established, among other things, new user fee statutes for generic drugs and biosimilars, FDA authority concerning drug shortages, and changes to enhance the FDA's inspection authority of the drug supply chain. The FDASIA also reduced the time required for FDA responses to generic-blocking citizen petitions. We implemented new systems and processes to comply with the new facility self-identification and user fee requirements of the FDASIA, and we monitor facility self-identification and fee payment compliance to mitigate the risk of potential supply chain interruptions or delays in regulatory approval of new applications.

    The U.S. government's Federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act ("DSCSA") requires development of an electronic pedigree to track and trace each prescription drug at the salable unit level through the distribution system, which will be effective incrementally over a 10-year period. The serialization of all Rx products distributed in the U.S. needed to be completed by November 26, 2018, with the requirement for tracking the products commencing on November 27, 2023. Requirements for the tracing of products at the lot level through the pharmaceutical distribution supply chain went into effect on January 1, 2015 for manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and re-packagers, and on July 1, 2015 for dispensers.

    The FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 created a pathway by which the FDA may, at the request of an applicant, designate a drug with “inadequate generic competition” as a Competitive Generic Therapy ("CGT"). At the request of the applicant, the FDA may expedite the development and review of an ANDA for a drug designated as a CGT. The first approved application for a drug with a CGT designation for which there are no unexpired patents or exclusivities listed in the Orange Book at the time of original submission of the ANDA may be eligible for 180 days of generic exclusivity.

Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients

    Third parties develop and manufacture APIs for use in certain of our pharmaceutical products that are sold in the U.S. and other global markets. API manufacturers typically submit a drug master file to the regulatory authority that provides the proprietary information related to the manufacturing process. The FDA inspects the manufacturing facilities to assess cGMP compliance, and the facilities and procedures must be cGMP compliant before API may be exported to the U.S.
19
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation


Infant Formula

    The FDA’s Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition is responsible for the regulation of infant formula. The Office of Nutrition, Labeling and Dietary Supplements ("ONLDS") has labeling responsibility for infant formula, while the Office of Food Additive Safety ("OFAS") has program responsibility for food ingredients and packaging. The ONLDS evaluates whether an infant formula manufacturer has met the requirements under the FFDCA and consults with the OFAS regarding the safety of ingredients in infant formula and of packaging materials for infant formula.

    All manufacturers of pediatric nutrition products must begin with safe food ingredients, which are either generally recognized as safe or approved as food additives. The Infant Formula Act provides specific requirements for infant formula to ensure the safety and nutrition of infant formulas, including minimum and, in some cases, maximum levels of specified nutrients.

    Before marketing a particular infant formula, the manufacturer must provide regulatory agencies assurance of the nutritional quality of that particular formulation consistent with the FDA’s labeling, nutrient content, and manufacturer quality control requirements. A manufacturer must notify the FDA at least 90 days before the marketing of any infant formula that differs fundamentally in processing or in composition from any previous formulation produced by the manufacturer. We actively monitor this process and make the appropriate adjustments to remain in compliance with recent FDA rules regarding cGMP, quality control procedures, quality factors, notification requirements, and reports and records for the production of infant formulas.

    In addition, the FFDCA requires infant formula manufacturers to test product composition during production and shelf-life; to keep records on production, testing, and distribution of each batch of infant formula; to use cGMP and quality control procedures; and to maintain records of all complaints and adverse events, some of which may reveal the possible existence of a health hazard. The FDA conducts yearly inspections of all facilities that manufacture infant formula, inspects new facilities during early production runs, and collects and analyzes samples of infant formula. Our infant formula manufacturing facilities have been inspected by the FDA with no corrective actions required from the most recent inspections.

    Our infant and toddler beverages are subject to the Food Safety Modernization Act ("FSMA"), which protects the safety of U.S. foods by mandating comprehensive, prevention-based controls within the food industry. Under FSMA, the FDA has mandatory recall authority for all food products and greater authority to inspect food producers and is taking steps toward product tracing to enable more efficient product source identification in the event of a safety issue.

U.S. Department of Agriculture

    The Organic Foods Production Act enacted under Title 21 of the 1990 Farm Bill established uniform national standards for the production and handling of foods labeled as "organic." Our infant formula manufacturing sites in Vermont and Ohio adhere to the standards of the U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA") National Organic Program for production, handling, and processing to maintain the integrity of organic products. Our infant formula manufacturing sites in Vermont and Ohio are USDA-certified, enabling them to produce and label organic products for U.S. and Canadian markets.

U.S. Environmental Protection Agency

    The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") is the main regulatory body in the United States governing environmental regulation. Laws administered by the EPA, often in partnership with state agencies, include but are not limited to the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act.

20
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration

    The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration ("DEA") regulates certain drug products containing controlled substances, such as morphine, hydromorphone, opium, testosterone, midazolam, and List I chemicals, such as pseudoephedrine, pursuant to the federal Controlled Substances Act ("CSA") and the Substance Use-Disorder Prevention that Promotes Opioid Recovery Treatment for Patients and Communities Act ("SUPPORT Act"). The CSA and DEA regulations impose registration, security, record keeping, suspicious order monitoring, reporting, storage, manufacturing, distribution, importation and other requirements upon legitimate handlers under the oversight of the DEA. The DEA categorizes controlled substances into Schedules I, II, III, IV, or V, with varying qualifications for listing in each schedule. We are subject to the requirements regarding the controlled substances in Schedules II - V and the List I chemicals. Our facilities that manufacture, distribute, import, or export any controlled substances must register annually with the DEA.

    The DEA inspects all manufacturing facilities to review security, record keeping, reporting, and handling prior to issuing a controlled substance registration, and it also periodically inspects facilities for compliance with the CSA and its regulations. Failure to maintain compliance with applicable requirements, particularly as manifested in the loss or diversion of controlled substances, can result in enforcement action, such as civil penalties, refusal to renew necessary registration, or the initiation of proceedings to revoke those registrations. In certain circumstances, violations could lead to criminal prosecution. We are also subject to state laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of certain products.

Federal Healthcare Programs and Drug Pricing Regulation
    Within the U.S., government healthcare insurance and welfare programs such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs are important third party payers for patients who are prescribed our products. These programs regulate the amount that pharmacies and other healthcare providers will be paid for our products, and we are subject to price reporting and other compliance obligations under these programs by virtue of our participation. Specifically, U.S. law requires that a pharmaceutical manufacturer, as a condition of federal funds being made available for the manufacturer’s drugs under Medicaid and Medicare Part B, enter into three government pricing program agreements: (i) a Medicaid rebate agreement with the Secretary of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) to pay rebates to state Medicaid programs for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs that are dispensed to Medicaid beneficiaries and paid for by a state Medicaid program; (ii) a 340B program agreement with the Secretary of HHS to provide statutory discounts to certain “covered entity” safety net healthcare providers; and (iii) a Master Agreement with the Department of Veterans Affairs (the "VA") under which discounts are available for purchases by federal agencies. We have such agreements in effect.

Medicaid Rebate Agreement

    The Medicaid rebate agreement requires the drug manufacturer to remit rebates to each state Medicaid agency on a quarterly basis for both fee-for-service and Medicaid managed care organization utilization. Rebate amounts are based on pricing data reported by the manufacturer to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), including Average Manufacturer Price ("AMP") and, in the case of innovator products, Best Price ("BP"). U.S. law also requires that a company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program report average sales price ("ASP") information to CMS for each calendar quarter for certain categories of drugs that are paid under the Medicare Part B program. CMS uses the ASP submissions to determine the amount CMS reimburses providers for such drugs under Medicare Part B.

The Medicaid rebate is calculated each quarter by CMS on the basis of the reported AMP and, in the case of innovator products, BP figures, and consists of the basic and additional rebates. The “basic rebate” formula is based on a minimum rebate percentage applied to AMP and, for innovator products, also considers BP. The “additional rebate" (calculated somewhat differently for innovator and non-innovator drugs) captures price increases that outpace inflation. CMS also uses manufacturer AMP data to calculate a limit on the amount state Medicaid programs can reimburse for multiple source drugs, known as the federal upper limit. Many state Medicaid programs also apply other reimbursement caps. CMS also surveys and publishes retail community pharmacy acquisition cost information, which many state Medicaid programs utilize as a basis for their own reimbursement methodologies.    

    Pricing and rebate calculations are governed by statutory and regulatory requirements that are complex, vary among products and programs, can change over time, and are subject to interpretation by us, governmental or regulatory agencies, and the courts. In the case of the Medicaid rebate program, if we become aware of errors in
21
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

our prior price submissions, or a prior BP submission needs to be updated due to late arriving data, we must resubmit the updated data within specified time frames. Such restatements and recalculations increase our cost of compliance with the Medicaid rebate program, and corrections can result in an overage or underage of our rebate liability for past quarters, depending on the nature of the correction. Despite our best efforts, we cannot be certain that our submissions will not be found by the government to be incomplete or incorrect. Refer to the risk factors under the heading “If we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations” in Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks.

340B Program Agreement

    The 340B drug pricing program requires participating manufacturers to agree to charge statutorily-defined covered entities no more than the 340B “ceiling price” for the manufacturer’s covered outpatient drugs. 340B covered entities include a variety of community health clinics and other entities that receive health services grants from the Public Health Service, as well as certain hospitals that serve a disproportionate share of low-income patients. The ceiling price is calculated on the basis of AMP and the Medicaid rebate, and therefore any changes to Medicaid price reporting and rebate legal standards may impact the 340B ceiling price calculation as well. If we revise data reported to the Medicaid drug rebate program, and such revisions result in a reduction of the 340B ceiling price, we are required to offer refunds to covered entities. Civil monetary penalties can be applied to manufacturers that knowingly and intentionally overcharge covered entities. Manufacturers are required to report the 340B ceiling prices each quarter.

Master Agreement with the Department of Veterans Affairs
    
    U.S. law also requires any company that participates in the Medicaid rebate program and that wants its covered drugs paid for by certain federal agencies and grantees to enter into a Master Agreement with the VA. Under the Master Agreement, the company must offer its prescription innovator drugs for procurement under the Federal Supply Schedule (“FSS”) contracting program, and must charge certain agencies (the VA, Department of Defense, Public Health Service and Coast Guard) no more than a statutory Federal Ceiling Price (“FCP”). The FCP is calculated based on Non-Federal Average Manufacturer Price ("Non-FAMP") data we submit to the VA. FSS contracts include extensive disclosure and certification requirements and standard government terms and conditions with which we must comply. Products sold to the government under an FSS contract must comply with the requirements of the Trade Agreements Act regarding the allowable countries where a product is manufactured or “substantially transformed." Consistent with the VA’s interpretation of the Master Agreement, we have also entered into an agreement to pay rebates on innovator drug prescriptions dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries by TRICARE network retail pharmacies.

Medicare Part D “Coverage Gap” Rebates

    For certain innovator products, manufacturers must also enter into an agreement with the Secretary of HHS to provide rebates with respect to utilization of their products by certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries while those patients are within the Medicare Part D benefit “coverage gap.” Manufacturers are not required to submit separate pricing data under this program; the rebate amount is calculated by CMS based on Part D plans “negotiated prices” paid to pharmacies.

Other Price Regulation and State Regulation

    Drug pricing has come under increasing public scrutiny arising out of general concerns about high drug costs or price increases, and transparency of pricing and discounting practices within the pharmaceutical distribution system. Congress is considering various amendments to federal drug pricing laws, as well as new forms of pricing regulation. Several states have enacted laws that, among other things, require manufacturers to report information concerning pharmaceutical pricing or marketing practices or to provide advance notice of price actions or applications for regulatory approvals to certain entities. Additionally, on November 27, 2020, CMS issued an interim final rule implementing a mandatory “Most Favored Nation” demonstration model to test reimbursement of drugs or biologicals under Medicare Part B based on international reference prices (such rule being enjoined by federal courts at this time). On December 12, 2019, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 3, The Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act, which, if enacted, would implement comprehensive measures related to drug pricing, including international reference pricing, as well as requiring manufacturers to pay a rebate on Part D drugs with price increases that outpace inflation. Refer to the risk factors under the headings "Limitations on
22
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

reimbursement, continuing healthcare reforms, and changes to reimbursement methods in the United States and other counties may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations" and “If we fail to comply with the reporting and payment obligations under the Medicaid rebate program or other governmental purchasing and rebate programs, we could be subject to fines or penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations” in Item 1A. Risk Factors - Operational Risks.

Other U.S. Regulations and Organizations

    We are subject to various other federal, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. Compliance with the laws and regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our current products and the discovery, development, and introduction of new products requires substantial effort, expense and capital investment. Other regulatory agencies, organizations, legislation, regulations and laws that may impact our business include, but are not limited to:

•Physician Payment Sunshine Act and Similar State Laws - This act and similar state laws require certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals, maintenance of a payment database and public reporting of the payment data.

•Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 ("FCPA") - This act and other similar anti-bribery laws prohibit companies and their intermediaries from providing money or anything of value to officials of foreign governments, foreign political parties or international organizations with the intent to obtain or retain business or seek a business advantage.

•Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") - This agency oversees the advertising and other promotional practices of consumer products marketers. The FTC considers whether a product’s claims are substantiated, truthful and not misleading. The FTC also reviews mergers and acquisitions of companies exceeding specified thresholds and investigates certain business practices relevant to the healthcare industry.

•International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") - The ISO Standards specify requirements for a Quality Management System that demonstrates the ability to consistently provide products that meet customer and applicable regulatory standards and includes processes to ensure continuous improvement. Our infant formula manufacturing sites are ISO 9001-2008 Certified for Quality Management Systems. ISO inspections are conducted at least annually.

•United States Pharmacopoeia Convention, Inc. ("USP") - The USP is a non-governmental, standard-setting organization. By reference, the FFDCA incorporates the USP quality and testing standards and monographs as the standard that must be met for the listed drugs, unless compliance with those standards is specifically disclaimed on the product’s labeling. USP standards exist for most Rx and OTC pharmaceuticals and many nutritional supplements. The FDA typically requires USP compliance as part of cGMP compliance.

•Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA") - HIPAA is a set of regulations designed to protect personal information and data collected and stored in medical records. It established a national standard to be used in all doctors' offices, hospitals and other businesses where personal medical information is stored. In addition to protecting personal medical information, HIPAA also gives patients the right to view their medical records and request changes if the data is incorrect. We could be subject to criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by HIPAA or for aiding and abetting the violation of HIPAA.

•Consumer Product Safety Commission ("CPSC") - The CPSC has published regulations requiring child resistant packaging on certain products including pharmaceuticals and dietary supplements. The manufacturer of any product that is subject to any CPSC rule, ban, standard or regulation must certify that, based on a reasonable testing program, the product complies with CPSC requirements.

•California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act ("Prop 65") - Prop 65 is a toxic right-to-know warnings law that allows the state attorney general and private enforcers to sue on behalf of the public claiming the products in question sold in California violate the law by exposing consumers to chemicals in levels above those allowed by regulation without carrying warnings.

23
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

•California Consumer Privacy Act ("CCPA") - CCPA went into effective on January 1, 2020, which enhanced the data protection rights of residents in California. This law increases our responsibility and potential liability related to personal data of California residents that we process.

•Other State Agencies - We are subject to regulation by numerous other state health departments, insurance departments, boards of pharmacy, state controlled substance agencies, state consumer health and safety regulations, and other comparable state agencies, each of which have license requirements and fees that vary by state.

Regulation Outside the U.S.

    We develop and manufacture products and market third-party manufactured products in regions outside the U.S., including Europe, Israel, Canada, Mexico, Australia, Asia, South America, and the Middle East, each of which has its own regulatory environment. The majority of our sales outside the U.S. are in the following categories: OTC and Rx pharmaceuticals, infant formulas, medical devices, dietary supplements, cosmetics, and oral self-care products. Other regulatory agencies, organizations and legislation that may impact our business include, but are not limited to:

•Privacy Regulations - We are subject to numerous global laws and regulations designed to protect personal data, such as the European General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”). The GDPR introduced more stringent data protection requirements in the EU, as well as substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The GDPR increased our responsibility and potential liability in relation to personal data that we process, and we have put in place appropriate mechanisms to comply with the GDPR.

•Transparency Laws - In various jurisdictions in which we operate, we are subject to the laws and regulations aimed at increasing transparency of financial relationships between healthcare professionals and pharmaceutical/medical device manufacturers. These acts require certain pharmaceutical manufacturers to engage in extensive tracking of payments or transfers of value to healthcare professionals.

•Anti-Bribery Laws - Various jurisdictions in which we operate have laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and the Irish Criminal Justice (Corruption Offenses) Act 2018, aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior.

•Rules and Regulations Infant Formula - Outside of the U.S., country-specific regulations define the requirements that we must comply with regarding the manufacturing, testing, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, and promotion of infant formula. We are subject to ongoing periodic inspection through these complex regulations, including by the FDA and other regulatory agencies such as the Canadian Food Inspection Agency ("CFIA").

European Union

OTC and Prescription Pharmaceuticals

    The European pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated and much of the legislative and regulatory framework is driven by the European Parliament and the European Commission. This has many benefits, including the potential to harmonize standards across the complex European market. However, obtaining regulatory agreement across member states presents complex challenges that can lead to delays in the regulatory process.

In the EU, as well as many other locations around the world, the manufacture and sale of medicinal products are regulated in a manner substantially similar to that of the U.S. requirements, which generally prohibit the handling, manufacture, marketing, and importation of any medicinal product unless it is properly registered in accordance with applicable law. The registration file relating to any particular product must contain data related to product efficacy and safety, including results of clinical testing and/or references to medical publications, as well as detailed information regarding production methods and quality control. Health ministries are authorized to cancel the registration of a product if it is found to be harmful or ineffective or if it is manufactured or marketed other than in accordance with registration conditions.

24
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

    Between 1995 and 1998, the over-arching regulation that governs medicinal products was revised in an attempt to simplify and harmonize product registration. This revised legislation introduced the mutual recognition procedure (“MRP”), whereby after approval of a marketing authorization by regulatory authorities in the reference member state (“RMS”), additional marketing authorizations could be submitted to other concerned member states to obtain a product license. In November 2005, the medicinal product legislation was further revised to introduce the decentralized procedure (“DCP”), whereby marketing authorizations are submitted simultaneously to the RMS and select concerned member states. In 2005, the EMA also opened up the centralized procedure to sponsors of marketing authorizations for generic medicinal products. Unlike the MRP and DCP, the centralized procedure results in a single marketing authorization and product labeling across all member states that will allow a sponsor to file for individual country reimbursement and make the medicine available in all the EU countries listed on the application. Marketing authorizations and subsequent product licenses are granted to applicants only after the relevant health authority issues a positive assessment of quality, safety and efficacy of the product.

    In addition to obtaining marketing authorization for each product, all member states require that a manufacturer’s facilities obtain approval from an EU Regulatory Authority. The EU has a code of GMP that each manufacturer must follow and comply with. Regulatory authorities in the EU may conduct inspections of the manufacturing facilities to review procedures, operating systems and personnel qualifications. We believe that our policies, operations and products comply in all material respects with existing regulations to which our operations are subject.
    In 2011, it was first proposed that the EU Member States had to transition to the European Falsified Medicines Directive (the “Directive”). The Directive was subsequently written into national law on January 2, 2013. The Directive made reference to a Delegated Act (the Delegated Act lists the detailed requirements for manufacturers). The Delegated Act was finalized and published in February 2017, and it provided for a two-year implementation period. We are in compliance with the Delegated Act. The provisions of the Directive are intended to reduce the risk of counterfeit medicines entering the supply chain and also to ensure the quality of API manufactured outside of the EU. The Directive required the serialization of all Rx and some OTC products, similar to the DSCSA in the U.S.
The European Commission passed legislation requiring new product packaging ‘safety features’ to prevent falsification of medicinal products primarily within the prescription medicines sector. All marketing authorization holders in the EU member states and EEA members Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland were required to introduce the necessary changes by February 9, 2019 (or risk forfeiting their product licenses). However, manufacturers based out of Greece, Belgium and Italy have an extended timeline until February 9, 2025 to implement the serialization guidelines as they already feature similar requirements on their current drug packages.
    In the EU, member states regulate the pricing of prescription medicinal products, and in some cases, the formulation and dosing of products. This regulation is handled by individual member state national health services. These individual regulatory bodies can result in considerable price differences and product availability among member states. The implementation of tendering systems for the pricing of pharmaceuticals in several countries generally impacts drug pricing for generics; generally, “tendering” refers to a system that requires bids to be submitted to the government by competing manufacturers to be the exclusive, or one of a few, suppliers of a product in a particular country.
    Data exclusivity provisions exist in many countries, although the application is not uniform. In general, these exclusivity provisions prevent the approval and/or submission of generic drug applications to the health authorities for a fixed period of time following the first approval of the brand-name product in that country. As these exclusivity provisions operate independently of patent exclusivity, they may prevent the submission of generic drug applications for some products even after the patent protection has expired.
    The requirements deriving from European pharmacovigilance regulation are constantly expanding due to increasing guidance on good vigilance practices and increased communication on inspectors’ expectations. Pharmacovigilance fee regulation became effective in late 2014 to support health authority assessment of pharmacovigilance safety evaluation reports, study protocols for post authorization safety studies and referrals. Once approved, the advertising of pharmaceuticals in the EU is governed by national regulations and guidelines. Within certain member states this is overseen by a self-certification process whereas in others national governance bodies approve material prior to release.

    The wholesale distribution of medicinal products is an important activity in the integrated supply chain management. The quality and the integrity of medicinal products can be affected by a lack of adequate control. To
25
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

this end, the EU Commission has published guidelines on Good Distribution Practice of Medicinal Products for Human Use in 2013. The present guidelines are based on Articles 84 and 85b(3) of medicinal products for human use directive.

Medical Devices

    The EU has enacted into law numerous directives and adopted many harmonizing standards pertaining to a wide range of industrial products, including medical devices. Medical devices that comply with the requirements of applicable directives are entitled to bear the CE marking of conformity, which indicates that the device conforms to the applicable requirements of the directives and, accordingly, can be commercially distributed throughout Europe. The method of assessing conformity varies depending on the class of the product, but normally involves a combination of self-assessment by the manufacturer and a third-party assessment by a Notified Body, an organization accredited by a member state. Assessment by a Notified Body includes an audit of the manufacturer’s quality system and may also include specific testing of the product. This assessment is a prerequisite for a manufacturer to commercially distribute the product throughout the EU. On May 25, 2017, the EU’s Medical Device Regulation (the “MDR”) became effective, with a three year transitional period until full application. The date of application of the MDR, and as a result the date of repeal of the existing Medical Device Directives (the "MDDs"), has been deferred by 12 months to May 26, 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. All Class I (low risk) medical devices need to comply with the MDR by May 26, 2021, and all medical devices sold in the EU will need to be approved under the MDR by May 26, 2025. Notified Bodies, which are organizations accredited by a member state, can continue to approve medical devices under the MDDs until May 26, 2021. Beginning on May 27, 2021, Notified Bodies will no longer be able to approve new medical devices under the MDDs or approve notifications of “substantial” design changes, including changes to labeling/packaging, changes to the manufacturing process, or the addition of new features and functionality, to medical devices that were approved under the MDDs.

Only Notified Bodies that have been designated under the MDR can carry out conformity assessment procedures, and only for certain types of devices listed by the product codes in their designation. This designation process is a lengthy and costly process, resulting in a shortage of certified notified bodies. In connection with the extension of the MDR application date discussed above, Notified Bodies designated under the prior MDD regime were allowed to continue their related governance of medical devices for one additional year, until May 25, 2021, subject to them having a designation under MDD in place throughout this time. The current regulations are not clear on the treatment of the existing certificates granted by Notified Bodies with designations that have expired during this extension period.

Dietary Supplements and Cosmetics

Complying with the legislative framework for dietary supplements and cosmetics in the EU remains challenging as a result of changing EU regulations, diverging national regulations from EU regulations, and diverging regulations between EU member states.

    Dietary supplements are subject to several regulations that inform the selection of ingredient levels and how products can be described on packaging and in advertising. These regulations include: Food Supplements Directive 2002/46/EC, Food Information to Consumers Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011, Permitted Vitamins and Minerals Regulation (EC) 1170/2009, Food Additives Regulation (EC) 1333/2008, Nutritional & Health Claims Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006, the Foods Intended for Particular Nutritional Uses Directive 2009/39/EC, and Regulation (EU) 609/2013.

EU rules on nutrition and health claims, which were established by Regulation EC 1924/2006, apply to any nutritional or health claim by a manufacturer. The objective of the regulation is to ensure that claims made in food labeling or advertising are clear, accurate and based on scientific evidence. The European Food Safety Authority, an advisory panel to the European Commission, performs all scientific assessments of health claims on food and supplement labels. An EU register of nutrition and health claims exists to document approved, pending, and rejected claims.

Cosmetic products in the EU market must comply with Regulation EC No. 1223/2009. This regulation requires manufacturers to prepare a product safety report prior to placing a cosmetic product in the market. In addition, for each cosmetic product placed in the market, a “responsible person” must be designated to oversee compliance with the regulation’s reporting requirements. Commission Regulation EU No. 655/2013 establishes the common criteria and justification for claims to be used in the packaging and advertising of cosmetics products.
26
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation


Biocides

Biocides in the EU market must comply with Regulation EU No. 528/2012 ("EU BPR") overseen by the European Chemicals Agency. Contrary to medicines, biocides are not exempted from chemical legislation such as the Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals No. 1907/2006 and the Regulation on Classification, Labelling and Packaging Regulation of substances and mixtures EC No. 1272/2008. The EU BPR improves the functioning of the biocidal products market in the EU, while ensuring a high level of protection for humans and the environment through the implementation of a harmonized system at Union level. Biocides are currently transitioning from a national-based system to a European system. The transition involves the gradual integration and approval or re-approval of existing active substances, followed by the pre-market authorization of biocidal finished products. This means all biocidal products will need to complete the reauthorization process, with the assessment focusing on efficacy and safety of the biocides on the European market.

General Product Safety Directive

    The General Product Safety Directive (2001/95/EC) complements sector-specific legislation such as rules that apply to electrical and electronic goods, chemicals, and other specific product groups. Together, the General Product Safety Directive and sector specific legislation ensure the safety and traceability of products in the market (other than pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and food which are regulated under separate legislation). If our products fail to meet the General Product Safety Directive, we may incur fines.

Additional Global Regulations and Considerations

We must comply with a variety of U.S. laws related to doing business outside of the U.S., including but not limited to, Office of Foreign Asset Controls; United Nations and EU sanctions; the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012; rules relating to the use of certain “conflict minerals” under Section 1502 of the Dodd- Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and regulations enforced by the U.S. Customs and Border Patrol. Changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare, may affect our business and operations. International sanctions and boycotts of our products could also impact our sales and ability to export our products.

In recent years, there has been growing concern about the use and misuse of opioids and related products in the United States and around the world. Natural and synthetic opioids have analgesic and sedative effects, and are commonly prescribed by medical professionals for the temporary management of pain. Clinically weaker opioid analgesics, such as products containing codeine, are available from pharmacists in certain jurisdictions without a doctor’s prescription. However, a number of jurisdictions have implemented or are considering restrictions on OTC products containing codeine. For example, in 2018, Australia reclassified codeine to require a prescription, and regulators in Ireland and the UK may be evaluating similar actions. Certain formulations of the branded pain medications we sell in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions contain codeine. Restrictions or prohibitions on the sale of OTC products containing codeine could affect our CSCI segment in future periods.

Tax Regulations

Recent Changes to Tax Laws, Regulations and Related Interpretations

The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), which represents a coalition of member countries, has recommended changes to numerous long-standing tax principles relating to Base Erosion and Profit Shifting ("BEPS"). These changes are being adopted and implemented by many of the countries in which we do business and may increase our tax expense in these countries. For example, Ireland implemented "controlled foreign corporation legislation" effective January 1, 2019 as required by the EU Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive ("ATAD") and effective January 1, 2020 has implemented "anti-hybrid legislation." In 2021, Ireland also intends to implement “interest limitation rules”, which are expected to take effect on January 1, 2022, as well as to update the recently implemented anti-hybrid legislation to incorporate the “anti-reverse-hybrid” recommendations contained in ATAD II.

On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("U.S. Tax Act"). The U.S. Tax Act includes several significant changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact us. These changes include a corporate
27
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

income tax rate reduction from 35% to 21%, full expensing of fixed assets placed in service in 2018 and the elimination or reduction of certain U.S. deductions and credits, including limitations on the deductibility of interest expense and executive compensation. The U.S. Tax Act also transitions international taxation from a worldwide system to a modified territorial system. This modified territorial system includes, among other items, base erosion prevention measures which have the effect of subjecting certain earnings of our U.S. owned foreign corporations to U.S. taxation as global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) and the establishment of a minimum tax on certain payments from our U.S. subsidiaries to related foreign persons as base erosion and anti-abuse tax (“BEAT”). These changes became effective in 2018. The U.S. Tax Act also includes a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on accumulated U.S. owned foreign corporations’ previously untaxed foreign earnings (“Transition Toll Tax”). The Transition Toll Tax can be paid over an eight-year period starting in 2018 and will not accrue interest. Based on the 2017 U.S. federal income tax return filed by the Company, the Transition Toll Tax was paid in full with the filing of our 2017 U.S. federal income tax return. During 2018, Treasury and the IRS issued various forms of guidance, including notices of proposed rule-making and proposed Treasury regulations, implementing and clarifying aspects of the U.S. Tax Act and other related topics, including the Transition Toll Tax, BEAT, GILTI, foreign tax credit computations, the full expensing of fixed assets placed in service in 2018, interest expense limitations under Section 163(j), deductibility of interest and/or royalty payments made by U.S. corporate taxpayers to foreign related parties in so-called “hybrid mismatch” arrangements under Section 267A, and the limitation of deductions for key executive compensation as determined under Section 162(m).

During the year ended December 31, 2018, we considered and evaluated Treasury and IRS guidance issued as described above and reflected certain changes in our income tax provision for 2018. In 2019, Treasury and the IRS issued final tax regulations (“Final Regulations”) on certain code sections that were introduced by, or changed as a result of, the U.S. Tax Act. The Final Regulations issued in 2019 did not result in material changes to the tax effect recorded in prior periods when proposed regulations were issued. We will continue to record the tax effects of any further proposed regulations in the quarters in which they are issued.

Our preliminary estimate of the impact of the U.S. Tax Act (including the Transition Toll Tax) was recorded as of December 31, 2017 and was subject to the finalization of management's analysis related to certain matters, such as developing interpretations of the provisions of the U.S. Tax Act, changes to certain estimates and amounts related to the earnings and profits of certain U.S. owned foreign subsidiaries and the filing of our tax returns. U.S. Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions interpreting the U.S. Tax Act required further adjustments and changes in our 2017 estimates, which did not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. The final determination of the impact of the U.S. Tax Act (including the Transition Toll Tax) was completed in 2018, as required by SAB 118 (refer to Item 8. Note 15).

On March 27, 2020, the U.S. enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”). The CARES Act allowed for an increased interest expense limitation and depreciation deductions resulting in a reduction of income tax expense of approximately $36.6 million for tax years 2019 and 2020. Additionally, Treasury and the IRS issued Proposed and Final Regulations in 2020 regarding interest expense limitations under Section 163(j). These regulations adjust the definition of interest expense and items allowable in adjusted taxable income to calculate the annual interest deduction limitation. Perrigo has applied the updated regulations resulting in a reduction of income tax expense of approximately $8.9 million during 2020.

Foreign Incorporation Considerations

Although we are incorporated in Ireland, the IRS may not agree with the conclusion that we are treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. For Perrigo Company plc to be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes under section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), either (i) the former stockholders of Perrigo Company must own (within the meaning of section 7874 of the Code) less than 80% (by both vote and value) of our stock by reason of holding shares in Perrigo Company (the "ownership test") as of the closing of the Elan acquisition or (ii) we must have substantial business activities in Ireland after the Elan acquisition (taking into account the activities of our expanded affiliated group). Upon our acquisition of Elan, Perrigo Company stockholders held 71% (by both vote and value) of our shares. We believe that under current law, we should be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal tax purposes. However, we cannot assure that the IRS will agree with our position that the ownership test is satisfied. There is limited guidance regarding the section 7874 provisions, including the application of the ownership test. Based on the limited guidance available, we currently expect that Section 7874 of the Code likely will limit our and our U.S. affiliates’ ability to use their U.S. tax attributes, such as net operating losses, to offset certain U.S. taxable income, if any, generated by the
28
Perrigo Company plc - Item 1
Regulation

Elan acquisition or certain specified transactions for a period of time following the Elan acquisition (refer to Item 8. Note 15).

Available Information

    Our principal executive offices are located at The Sharp Building, Hogan Place, Dublin 2, D02 TY74, and our North American base of operations is located at 515 Eastern Avenue, Allegan, Michigan 49010. Our telephone number is +353 1 7094000. Our website address is www.perrigo.com, where we make available free of charge our reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, including any amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). These filings are also available to the public at www.sec.gov and www.isa.gov.il.
