General Discussion of our Business

Public Storage (referred to herein as “the Company”, “we”, “us”, or “our”), a Maryland REIT, was organized in 1980.  Our principal business activities include the ownership and operation of self-storage facilities and other related operations including tenant reinsurance and third-party self-storage management.  We are the industry leading owner and operator of self-storage properties with a recognizable brand, including the ubiquitous orange color, which is one of the most recognizable within the industry.

 

4

 

 

 

 

Self-storage Operations:  

We acquire, develop, own and operate self-storage facilities, which offer storage spaces for lease on a month-to-month basis, for personal and business use.  We are the largest owner and operator of self-storage facilities in the U.S. with physical presence in most major markets and 38 states.  We believe our scale, brand name and technology platform afford us competitive advantages.  At December 31, 2020, we held interests in and consolidated 2,548 self-storage facilities (an aggregate of 175 million net rentable square feet of space) operating under the “Public Storage” brand name.  We own all of the economic interest in these facilities, except for 21 of these facilities held with other noncontrolling interests.

Ancillary and Other Operations:

We reinsure policies held by tenants against losses to goods stored at the self-storage facilities we own, as well as those we manage for third parties.  These policies cover claims for losses related to specified events up to a maximum limit of $5,000 per storage unit.  We reinsure all risks in this program, but purchase insurance from an independent third party insurer to cover this exposure for a limit of $15.0 million for losses in excess of $5.0 million per occurrence.  At December 31, 2020, there were approximately 990,000 certificates held by our self-storage customers, representing aggregate coverage of approximately $3.9 billion.

At December 31, 2020, we managed 92 facilities for third parties, and are under contract to manage 25 additional facilities including 24 facilities that are currently under construction.  In addition, we sell merchandise, primarily locks and cardboard boxes at our self-storage facilities. 

We hold a 42% equity interest in PS Business Parks, Inc. (“PSB”) and a 35% interest in Shurgard Self Storage SA (“Shurgard”).  PSB is a publicly held REIT that owns, operates, acquires and develops commercial properties, primarily multi-tenant flex, office, and industrial parks.  At December 31, 2020, PSB owned and operated 27.7 million rentable square feet of commercial space.  Shurgard is a public company traded on Euronext Brussels under the “SHUR” symbol and owns 241 self-storage facilities (13.2 million net rentable square feet) located in seven countries in Western Europe operated under the “Shurgard” brand name.  

For all periods presented herein, we have elected to be treated as a REIT, as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”).  For each taxable year in which we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we will not be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our “REIT taxable income” (generally, taxable income subject to specified adjustments, including a deduction for dividends paid and excluding our net capital gain) that is distributed to our shareholders.  We believe we met these requirements in all periods presented herein and we expect to continue to qualify as a REIT.

We report annually to the SEC on Form 10-K, which includes financial statements certified by our independent registered public accountants.  We also report quarterly to the SEC on Form 10-Q, which includes unaudited financial statements.  We expect to continue such reporting. 

On our website, www.publicstorage.com, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10- K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports and amendments are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.  The information contained on our website is not a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Competition

Ownership and operation of self-storage facilities is highly fragmented.  As the largest owner of self-storage facilities, we believe that we own approximately 7% of the self-storage square footage in the U.S. and that collectively the five largest self-storage owners in the U.S. own approximately 16%, with the remaining 84% owned by regional and local operators. 

5

 

 

 

 

We generally own facilities in major markets.  We believe that we have market share and concentration in major metropolitan centers, with approximately 70% of our 2020 same-store revenues generated in the 20 Metropolitan Statistical Areas (each, an “MSA”, as defined by the U.S. Census Bureau) with the highest population levels.  We believe this is a competitive advantage relative to other self-storage operators, which do not have our geographic concentration and market share in the major MSAs.  

The high level of ownership fragmentation in the industry is partially attributable to the relative simplicity of managing a local self-storage facility, such that small-scale owners can operate self-storage facilities at a basic level of profitability without significant managerial or operational infrastructure. Our facilities compete with nearby self-storage facilities owned by other operators using marketing channels, including Internet advertising, signage, and banners and offering services similar to ours.  As a result, competition is significant and affects the occupancy levels, rental rates, rental income and operating expenses of our facilities.  However, we believe that the economies of scale inherent in this business result in our being able to operate self-storage facilities at a materially higher level of cash flow per square foot than other operators without our scale.  

Recently, larger national operators (including ourselves) are offering to manage facilities owned by third parties on their platform for a fee, and Google is offering a more convenient platform for small operators to compete with larger operators in paid search bidding campaigns to drive web traffic and increase reservations.  Depending upon how many smaller operators avail themselves of these management services and Google’s platform, these two developments may potentially diminish the competitive advantage we have versus smaller owner/operators.  

Newly developed facilities compete with many of the facilities we own, negatively impacting our occupancies, rental rates, and rental growth, particularly as newly developed facilities fill up.  The level of new construction varies in each market over time, depending upon many factors such as the cost and availability of land, construction costs, zoning limitations, and the availability of capital, as well as local demand and economic conditions.  Currently, we are affected by newly developed facilities in markets such as Atlanta, Austin, Charlotte, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Houston, Miami, Minneapolis, New York and Portland.   We expect development of new self-storage facilities to continue to impact our results for the foreseeable future. 

Technology

We believe technology enables revenue optimization and cost efficiencies.  Over the past few years we have invested in technologies that we believe have enabled us to operate and compete more effectively. 

Centralized information networks:  Our centralized reporting and information network enables us to identify changing market conditions and operating trends as well as analyze customer data and, on an automated basis, quickly change each of our individual properties’ pricing and promotions, as well as to drive marketing spending such as the relative level of bidding for various paid search terms on paid search engines.

Convenient shopping experience:  Customers can conveniently shop for available storage space, reviewing attributes such as facility location, size, amenities such as climate-control, as well as pricing, through the following marketing channels:  

Our Desktop and Mobile Websites:  The online marketing channel is a key source of customers.  Approximately 76% of our move-ins in 2020 were sourced through our website and we believe that many of our other customers who reserved directly through our call center or arrived at a facility and moved in without a reservation, have reviewed our pricing and availability online through our websites.  We seek to regularly update the structure, layout, and content of our website in order to enhance our placement in “unpaid” search in Google and related websites, to improve the efficiency of our bids in “paid” search campaigns, and to maximize users’ likelihood of reserving space on our website. 

6

 

 

 

 

Our Call Center:  Our call center is staffed by skilled sales specialists.  Customers reach our call center by calling our advertised toll-free telephone numbers provided on search engines or our website.  We believe giving customers the option to interact with a call center agent, despite the higher marginal cost relative to a reservation made on our website, enhances our ability to close sales with potential customers. 

Our Properties:  Customers can also shop at any one of our facilities.  Property managers access the same information that is available on our website and to our call center agents, and can inform the customer of available space at that site or our other nearby storage facilities.  Property managers are trained to maximize the conversion of such “walk in” shoppers into customers.  

To further enhance the move-in experience, in 2020 we initiated our “eRental®” process whereby prospective tenants (including those who initially reserved a space) expedite the move-in process by executing a lease agreement from their smartphone or computer and then going directly to their space on the move-in date. Approximately half of customers elected this “eRental®” process during the fourth quarter of 2020.

In addition, in 2020 we have implemented technology solutions in the area of labor scheduling, an integrated customer smartphone application, automated and centralized property access systems, and website customer chat functions.

Growth and Investment Strategies

Our ongoing growth strategies consist of: (i) improving the operating performance of our existing self-storage facilities, (ii) acquiring and developing facilities, (iii) growing ancillary business activities including tenant reinsurance and third-party management services, and (iv) leveraging the growth of our investment in PSB and Shurgard.  While our long-term strategy includes each of these elements, in the short run the level of growth in our asset base in any period is dependent upon the cost and availability of capital, as well as the relative attractiveness of available investment alternatives.  

From time to time we explore expansion of our activities to other countries.  Any such strategic expansion would most likely involve acquiring an interest in an existing operator’s platform.  There can be no assurance that any such expansion will occur in the future or the timing thereof.  

Improve the operating performance of existing facilities: We regularly update and enhance our strategies to increase the net cash flow of our existing self-storage facilities through maximizing revenues and controlling operating costs.  We maximize revenues through striking the appropriate balance between occupancy and rates to new and existing tenants, by regularly adjusting (i) our promotional and other discounts, (ii) the rental rates we charge to new and existing customers, and (iii) our marketing spending and intensity.  We inform these pricing and marketing decisions by observing their impact on web and call center traffic, reservations, move-ins, move-outs, tenant length of stay, and other indicators of response.  The size and scope of our operations have enabled us to achieve high operating margins and a low level of administrative costs relative to revenues through the centralization of many functions, such as facility maintenance, employee compensation and benefits programs, revenue management, as well as the development and documentation of standardized operating procedures.

Acquire existing properties in the U.S.: We seek to capitalize on the fragmentation of the self-storage business through acquiring attractively priced, well-located existing self-storage facilities.  We believe our presence in and knowledge of substantially all of the major markets in the U.S. enhances our ability to identify attractive acquisition opportunities.  Data on the rental rates and occupancy levels of our existing facilities provide us an advantage in evaluating the potential of acquisition opportunities.  Our aggressiveness in bidding for particular marketed facilities depends upon many factors including the potential for future growth, the quality of construction and location, the cash flow we expect from the facility when operated on our platform, how well the facility fits into our current geographic footprint, as well as our return on capital expectations.    

7

 

 

 

 

Develop new self-storage facilities and expand existing facilities:  The development of new self-storage locations and the expansion of existing facilities has been an important source of our growth.  Our operating experience in major markets and experience in stabilizing new properties provides us advantages in developing new facilities.  We plan to increase our development activity given attractive risk adjusted return profile with yields above those of acquisitions. However, our level of development is dependent upon many factors, including the cost and availability of land, the cost and availability of construction materials and labor, zoning and permitting limitations, our cost of capital, the cost of acquiring facilities relative to developing new facilities, as well as local demand and economic conditions.   

Grow ancillary business activities:  We pursue growth initiatives providing attractive insurance offerings for tenants who choose to protect their stored items against loss and desire to maximize their storage experience.  As we grow our self-storage portfolio we have the opportunity to increase the growth profile of our tenant reinsurance business.

Our third party management business enables us to generate revenues through management fees, expand our presence, increase our economies of scale, promote our brand and enhance our ability to acquire additional facilities over the medium and long-term as a result of strategic relationships forged with third-party owners.  

Participate in the growth of PS Business Parks, Inc.:   We hold a 42% equity interest in PSB. Our investment in PSB provides diversification into another asset type.  PSB seeks to grow its asset base in its existing markets as well as increase the cash flows from its owned portfolio.  As of December 31, 2020, PSB owned and operated approximately 27.7 million rentable square feet of commercial space.      

Participate in the growth of Shurgard:  We hold a 35% interest in Shurgard. We believe Shurgard is the largest self-storage company in Western Europe.  Customer awareness and availability of self-storage is significantly lower in Europe than in the U.S.  However, with more awareness and product supply, we believe there is potential for increased demand for storage space in Europe.  We believe Shurgard can capitalize on potential increased demand through the development of new facilities and acquiring existing facilities.  From January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2020, Shurgard acquired 17 facilities from third parties for approximately $187.7 million, and has opened six development properties at a total cost of approximately $66.9 million.  At December 31, 2020, Shurgard had ten properties in their development pipeline.

Compliance with Government Regulations 

 

We are subject to various laws, ordinances and regulations, including various federal, state and local regulations that apply generally to the ownership of real property and the operation of self-storage properties.  These include various laws and government regulations concerning environmental matters, labor matters and employee safety and health matters.  Further, our insurance activities are subject to state insurance laws and regulations as determined by the particular insurance commissioner for each state in accordance with certain federal regulations.

 

We are not aware of any government regulations that have resulted or that we expect will result in compliance costs that had or will have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.  See “We have significant exposure to real estate risk.” and “We are subject to new and changing legislation and regulations, including the California’s Consumer Privacy Act” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for further information regarding our risks related to government regulations.  In addition, during public health crises, such as the COVID Pandemic, or in response to natural disasters, such as wildfires in California in recent years, our properties and our tenants have been subject to emergency government regulations that have impacted our operations and our business.  See “We are subject to risks from the COVID Pandemic and we may in the future be subject to risks from other public health crises” and “We have been and may in the future be adversely impacted by emergency regulations adopted in response to significant events, such as natural disasters or public health crises, that could adversely impact our operations.” in Item 1A. “Risk Factors”. 

 

We are committed to a long-term environmental stewardship program that reduces emissions of hazardous materials into the environment and the remediation of identified existing environmental concerns, including 

8

 

 

 

environmentally-friendly capital initiatives and building and operating properties with a high structural resilience and low obsolescence.  We accrue environmental assessments and estimated remediation costs when it is probable that such efforts will be required and the related costs can be reasonably estimated.  Our current practice is to conduct environmental investigations in connection with property acquisitions.  Although there can be no assurance, we are not aware of any environmental contamination of any of our facilities, which individually or in the aggregate would be material to our overall business, financial condition, or results of operations.

 

Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic

During a significant portion of the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID Pandemic has resulted in restrictions on business activities in most sectors of the economy in virtually all markets we operate in, due to governmental “stay at home” orders, risk mitigation procedures, closure of businesses not considered to be “essential,” as well as other direct and indirect impacts, including a significant increase in unemployment in the U.S.  

The impact of the COVID Pandemic on our business is described more fully in “Overview” and the various sections of our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations which follows.

 

Human Capital Resources

 

The Company’s key human capital management objectives are to attract, develop and retain the highest quality talent.  We seek to earn the commitment of employees by making a strong commitment to them.  While most join without experience in the self-storage industry, many find career success with us given our emphasis on training, development and promotion from within.

 

Doing the right thing and integrity are core values we live by at Public Storage and the cornerstone to our culture.  Acting with the highest integrity is imperative to our success, our customer’s satisfaction and our employee’s engagement.

 

We have approximately 5,400 employees, including 4,700 customer facing roles (such as property level and call center personnel), 380 field management employees, and 320 employees in our corporate operations.

 

Diversity and Inclusion

 

At Public Storage, we are united under one common goal – creating a diverse and inclusive environment where all employees feel valued, included, and excited to be part of a best-in-class team.  With over 5,400 team members from all different races, backgrounds, and life experiences, we celebrate inclusion and value the diversity each person brings to Public Storage.  This commitment drives everything we do, from the people we hire, to the business decisions we make.  

 

Public Storage hires based on character, skills, and experience without regard to age, gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or other protected characteristic. Adherence to this practice has resulted in a diverse and inclusive employee base that reflects the diversity of customers we serve. We maintain policies regarding diversity, equal opportunity, pay-for-performance, discrimination, harassment, and labor (e.g., child, forced, and compulsory).  Our employee population is approximately 70% female and approximately 51% have self-identified as people of color; Black or African American (23%), Hispanic or Latino (18%), Asian (4%), of two or more races (4%), Native American (1%), and Pacific Islander (1%).

 

Diversity is an important factor in all levels of the organization.  Our executive team is 25% female and 25% people of color and 38% of our leadership roles are held by women.  In 2020, 54% of employees promoted to leadership roles were diverse.  Additionally, by having a balanced mix of generations in the organization, we gain from the experiences each age group brings - our employees are 16% Boomer, 28% Gen X, 47% Gen Y and 9% Gen Z.

 

9

 

 

 

 

Some examples of key programs and initiatives that are focused to attract, develop and retain our diverse workforce include:

 

Compensation, Health and Wellness

 

Public Storage believes in aligning employee compensation with our short- and long-term performance goals and providing compensation and incentives needed to attract, motivate and retain employees who are crucial to our success.  We tailor our compensation programs to each employee group to ensure competitiveness in the market and to drive employee engagement.

 

Public Storage is also committed to our employees and their overall health and well-being.  We want to help them feel happy, healthy, socially connected, and purposeful.  Our goal is to provide tools and resources to help empower our employees to explore what they need and to evaluate for themselves what makes sense in achieving a healthy and balanced lifestyle.   

 

We offer benefits to virtually all our employees.  Anyone working 20 hours or more is eligible to participate in our health benefit offerings which include medical, dental, vision, flexible and health savings accounts, discount and income protection plans.  We also offer a 401(k) plan with matching employer contributions to help our employees prepare for retirement.  

 

Our dedicated health and wellness website is designed to provide educational and motivational content that help our employees focus on their well-being.  We also host individual and team contests to promote goal setting, action and monitoring.

 

Additionally, employee support programs are available with access to free counseling services through various channels (web, phone, in person), life planning tools and other discount programs for legal services, pet insurance, home and auto, and more.

 

The COVID-19 Pandemic

 

The COVID Pandemic brought varying challenges to each of our employee groups.  We took a multipronged approach in providing resources, tools and added protocols that focused on employees and their families while still allowing us to support the customers we serve during these unprecedented times.

 

Our field operations and store protocols were quickly modified to ensure a safe workspace for our employees and our customers.  We implemented a policy of allowing only one customer in office at a time, required mandatory face coverings, and installed Plexiglass protection.  We also sought to reduce in person touchpoints with various initiatives, most notably our newly-launched “eRental®” program described above.

 

Additionally, we had a swift transition to work-from-home for our corporate and call center operations by utilizing new operating and call center technology platforms that were put in place prior to prepare for these types of situations.

 

We established the PS Cares Fund which was designed to support our employees that may be directly impacted by COVID-19.  We provided additional incentive pay for property personnel and district managers, opened personal paid time off policies for full use and provided extended paid time to ensure employees had time off assistance  when and if needed.  Childcare assistance and online educational content was made available to help employees balance the need to work and care for children impacted by school closures.  Additionally, mental well-being offerings were provided for those struggling during these unique times.

 

Training, Development and Recognition

 

We provide robust training programs for our new hires in our field and call center operations to help them quickly learn and operate in the self-storage business.  We also offer ongoing training and development programs for 

10

 

 

 

our workforce.  We are able to accomplish this by utilizing an online platform that provides a one-stop shop for accessing training courses and relevant reference materials.  Public Storage employees completed more than 367,000 formal training hours in 2020.    

 

The online training and development platform also allows us to reinforce our culture of ongoing recognition by providing a means to show appreciation to others across all levels of the business by awarding employee recognition badges such as team player or appreciation badge.  Over 54,000 badges were awarded in 2020.  

 

Communication and Engagement

 

Given the geographically dispersed nature of our business, it is important for us to ensure that employees feel they are informed and included.  We communicate through various channels such as monthly meetings or “touch bases”, frequent email communications and updates from corporate, company intranet postings, engagement surveys and monthly newsletters. Our monthly newsletter is an additional way to keep up with company information and each other. It contains a CEO message and provides company strategy and performance updates, employee achievements and promotions, health and wellness tips, and other pertinent information that helps keep us connected.

 

Employee engagement is instrumental in understanding the effectiveness of our strategies.  We conduct various engagement surveys through the year to help us measure commitment, motivation and engagement, as well as gain employee feedback that helps us improve.  

 

Seasonality

We experience minor seasonal fluctuations in the demand for self-storage space, with demand and rental rates generally higher in the summer months than in the winter months.  We believe that these fluctuations result in part from increased moving activity during the summer months.
