Introduction

Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms “we,” “our” or “us” refer to PVH Corp. and its subsidiaries.

Our fiscal years are based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday closest to February 1 and are designated by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. References to a year are to our fiscal year, unless the context requires otherwise. Our 2020 year commenced on February 3, 2020 and ended on January 31, 2021; our 2019 year commenced on February 4, 2019 and ended on February 2, 2020; and our 2018 year commenced on February 5, 2018 and ended on February 3, 2019.

References to the brand names TOMMY HILFIGER, HILFIGER COLLECTION, TOMMY HILFIGER TAILORED, TOMMY JEANS, Calvin Klein, CALVIN KLEIN 205 W39 NYC, CK Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein Jeans, Calvin Klein Underwear, Calvin Klein Performance, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga, True&Co., Geoffrey Beene and to other brand names in this report are to registered and common law trademarks owned by us or licensed to us by third parties and are identified by italicizing the brand name.

We obtained the market and competitive position data used throughout this report from research, surveys or studies conducted by third parties (including, with respect to the brand rankings, the NPD Group/POS Tracking Service), information provided by customers, and industry or general publications. The United States department and chain store rankings to which we refer in this report are on a unit basis. Industry publications and surveys generally state that they have obtained information from sources believed to be reliable but do not guarantee the accuracy and completeness of such information. While we believe that each of these studies and publications and all other information are reliable, we have not independently verified such data and we do not make any representation as to the accuracy of such information.

Company Information

We were incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the successor to a business begun in 1881. Our principal executive offices are located at 200 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; our telephone number is (212) 381-3500.

We make available at no cost, on our corporate website, PVH.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after we have electronically filed such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). All such filings are also available on the SEC’s website at sec.gov.

We also make available at no cost on PVH.com, the charters of the committees of the PVH Board of Directors, as well as our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.

Company Overview

We are one of the largest global apparel companies in the world. We have approximately 33,000 associates operating in more than 40 countries and generated $7.1 billion and $9.9 billion in revenues in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our business was significantly negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, resulting in an unprecedented material decline in revenue.

We manage a diversified brand portfolio, including TOMMY HILFIGER, Calvin Klein, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga, True&Co. and Geoffrey Beene, which are owned, as well as various other owned, licensed and, to a lesser extent, private label brands. We licensed Speedo for North America and the Caribbean until April 6, 2020, at which time we completed the sale of our Speedo North America business to Pentland Group PLC (“Pentland”), the parent company of the Speedo brand (the “Speedo transaction”). Upon the closing of the transaction, we deconsolidated the net assets of the Speedo North America business and no longer licensed the Speedo trademark. We refer to our owned and licensed trademarks, other than TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein, as our “heritage brands” and the businesses we operate under the heritage brands trademarks as our Heritage Brands business. The heritage brands trademarks and the Heritage Brands business included the Speedo trademark and the business we operated under it until the Speedo transaction closed.
1


We design and market branded sportswear (casual apparel), jeanswear, performance apparel, intimate apparel, underwear, swimwear, dress shirts, neckwear, handbags, accessories, footwear and other related products. Our brands are positioned to sell globally at various price points and in multiple channels of distribution. This enables us to offer products to a broad range of consumers, while minimizing competition among our brands and reducing our reliance on any one demographic group, product category, price point, distribution channel or region. We also license the use of our trademarks to third parties and joint ventures for product categories and in regions where we believe our licensees’ expertise can better serve our brands.

Our directly operated businesses in North America during 2020 consisted principally of wholesale sales under our TOMMY HILFIGER, Calvin Klein and heritage brands trademarks; the operation of digital commerce sites under the TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein trademarks and, in the United States, the operation of digital commerce sites for the Van Heusen, IZOD and, until April 6, 2020, Speedo trademarks; and the operation of retail stores, principally in premium outlet centers, primarily under our TOMMY HILFIGER, Calvin Klein and certain of our heritage brands trademarks. We announced in July 2020 plans to streamline our North American operations to better align our business with the evolving retail landscape, including the exit from our Heritage Brands Retail business, which consisted of 162 directly operated stores in North America, by mid-2021. Approximately 40 of these stores had been closed by the end of 2020. Our directly operated businesses outside of North America consisted principally of our wholesale and retail sales in Europe and the Asia-Pacific region under our TOMMY HILFIGER trademarks; our wholesale and retail sales in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America under our Calvin Klein trademarks; and the operation of digital commerce sites in Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America, under the TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein trademarks. Our licensing activities principally related to the licensing worldwide of our TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein trademarks for a broad array of product categories and for use in numerous discrete jurisdictions.

We have evolved from our 1881 roots to become a diversified global company through a combination of transformative acquisitions and by successfully growing our brands globally across all channels of distribution. Our key acquisitions include the acquisition of Calvin Klein, Inc. and certain affiliated companies (“Calvin Klein”) in February 2003 (the “Calvin Klein acquisition”), the acquisition of Tommy Hilfiger B.V. and certain affiliated companies (“Tommy Hilfiger”) in May 2010 (the “Tommy Hilfiger acquisition”) and the acquisition of The Warnaco Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (“Warnaco”) in February 2013 (the “Warnaco acquisition”). We have also acquired several regional licensed businesses and will continue to explore strategic acquisitions of licensed businesses, trademarks and companies that we believe are additive to our overall business.

We completed a transaction in 2019 to terminate early the licenses for the global Calvin Klein and Tommy Hilfiger North America socks and hosiery businesses (the “Socks and Hosiery transaction”) in order to consolidate the socks and hosiery businesses for all of our brands in the United States and Canada in a newly formed joint venture, PVH Legwear LLC (“PVH Legwear”), in which we own a 49% economic interest, and to bring in-house the international Calvin Klein socks and hosiery wholesale businesses. PVH Legwear was formed with a wholly owned subsidiary of our former heritage brands trademarks socks and hosiery licensee, and has licensed from us since December 2019 the rights to distribute and sell TOMMY HILFIGER, Calvin Klein, IZOD, Van Heusen and Warner’s socks and hosiery in the United States and Canada.

We acquired the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in Central and Southeast Asia from our previous licensee in that market (the “TH CSAP acquisition”) in July 2019 and now operate directly the Tommy Hilfiger retail business in the Central and Southeast Asia market.

We acquired the approximately 78% ownership interests in Gazal Corporation Limited (“Gazal”) that we did not already own (the “Australia acquisition”) in May 2019. Prior to the closing, we, along with Gazal, jointly owned and managed a joint venture, PVH Brands Australia Pty. Limited (“PVH Australia”), which licensed and operated businesses in Australia, New Zealand and other parts of Oceania under the TOMMY HILFIGER, Calvin Klein and Van Heusen brands, along with other owned and licensed brands. PVH Australia came under our full control as a result of the Australia acquisition and we now operate directly those businesses.

We entered into a licensing agreement in May 2019 with G-III Apparel Group, Ltd. (“G-III”) for the design, production and wholesale distribution of Calvin Klein Jeans women’s jeanswear collections in the United States and Canada (the “G-III license”), which resulted in the discontinuation of our directly operated Calvin Klein North America women’s jeanswear wholesale business in 2019.

We aggregate our reportable segments for purposes of discussion in this Report into three main businesses: (i) Tommy Hilfiger, which consists of the Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments; (ii) Calvin Klein,
2

which consists of the Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments; and (iii) Heritage Brands, which consists of the Heritage Brands Wholesale and Heritage Brands Retail segments. Our Heritage Brands Retail segment will cease operations in mid-2021 following the closure of the last of its directly operated stores. Note 20, “Segment Data,” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report contains information with respect to revenue, income before interest and taxes, assets, depreciation and amortization, and capital expenditures related to each segment, as well as information regarding our revenue generated by distribution channel and based on geographic location, and the geographic locations where our net property, plant and equipment is held.

We generated revenue of $7.1 billion and $9.9 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Over 60% of our revenue in 2020 and over 50% of our revenue in 2019 was generated outside of the United States. Our global designer lifestyle brands, TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein, together generated over 85% of our revenue during 2020 and 2019. Our business was significantly negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020, resulting in an unprecedented material decline in revenue, and we expect the pandemic will continue to have a significant impact on our business into 2021. Please see our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of this report for further discussion.

Tommy Hilfiger Business Overview

We believe TOMMY HILFIGER is one of the world’s leading designer lifestyle brands and a pioneer of classic, American cool style that inspires the modern American spirit. Global retail sales of products sold under the TOMMY HILFIGER brands, including sales by our licensees, were approximately $6.9 billion and $9.2 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decline in global retail sales in 2020 was due primarily to the significant adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the businesses of our licensees. Our Tommy Hilfiger business markets its products under several brands in order to fully capitalize on its global appeal, as each brand varies in terms of price point, product offerings, demographic target or distribution.

The TOMMY HILFIGER brands consist of HILFIGER COLLECTION, TOMMY HILFIGER TAILORED, TOMMY HILFIGER and TOMMY JEANS. Products are sold globally in our stores, through our wholesale partners (in stores and online), through pure play digital commerce retailers and on tommy.com, and principally consist of men’s, women’s and children’s sportswear, denim, underwear, swimwear, footwear and accessories. In addition, we license the TOMMY HILFIGER brands to third parties for a broad range of lifestyle products, including fragrance, eyewear, watches and home furnishings, as well as for certain territories.

Tommy Hilfiger’s global marketing and communications strategy is to build a consumer-centric, go-to-market strategy that maintains the brand’s momentum, driving awareness, consistency and relevancy across product lines and regions. We engage consumers through comprehensive 360° marketing campaigns, which have a particular focus on innovative experiences and digital marketing initiatives. Marketing campaigns for the brand are focused on attracting a new generation of consumers worldwide through a blend of global and regional brand ambassadors. Tommy Hilfiger spent approximately $175 million and $210 million on global marketing and communications efforts in 2020 and 2019, respectively, with a significant portion related to digital media spend. We reduced our marketing and other discretionary spend in 2020 in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.

Through our Tommy Hilfiger North America and Tommy Hilfiger International segments, we sell TOMMY HILFIGER products in a variety of distribution channels, including:

•Wholesale — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region under the TOMMY HILFIGER brands. In North America, distribution is primarily through department stores, warehouse clubs, and off-price and independent retailers, as well as digital commerce sites operated by the department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers. In Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, distribution is through department and specialty stores, and digital commerce sites operated by department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers, as well as through distributors and franchisees.

•Retail — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products under the TOMMY HILFIGER brands in our stores in North America, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, as well as on the tommy.com sites we operate in these regions. Our stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers. In Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, we operate full-price and outlet stores, as well as concession locations.

3

•Licensing — we license the TOMMY HILFIGER brands to third parties globally for a broad range of products through approximately 25 license agreements. We provide support to our licensees and seek to preserve the integrity of our brands by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Territorial licensees include our joint ventures in Brazil, India and Mexico.
    
Tommy Hilfiger’s key licensees, and the products and territories licensed, include:
								
Licensee	 	Product Category and Territory
 	 	 
American Sportswear S.A.	 	Men’s, women’s and children’s apparel, footwear and accessories (Central America, South America (excluding Brazil) and the Caribbean)
		
F&T Apparel LLC & KHQ Investment LLC	 	Children’s apparel, underwear and sleepwear and boy’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)
 	 	 
G-III Apparel Group, Ltd. / G-III Apparel Canada ULC		
Men’s and women’s outerwear, luggage, women’s apparel, dresses, suits and swimwear (excluding intimates, sleepwear, loungewear, hats, scarves, gloves and footwear) and men’s and women’s activewear that also bear trademarks associated with the National Football League, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, Major League Soccer or their member teams (United States and Canada)
		
Handsome Corporation
	 	Men’s, women’s and children’s apparel, sportswear, socks and accessories and men’s and women’s outerwear (South Korea)
		
MBF Holdings LLC	 	Men’s and women’s footwear (United States and Canada)
 	 	 
Movado Group, Inc. / Swissam Products, Ltd.	 	Men’s and women’s watches and jewelry (worldwide, excluding Japan (except certain customers))
		
Peerless Clothing International, Inc.		Men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)
		
Safilo Group S.p.A.	 	Men’s, women’s and children’s eyeglasses and non-ophthalmic sunglasses (worldwide, excluding India)
 

Our Tommy Hilfiger North America segment includes the results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint venture in Mexico and in PVH Legwear, in each case to the extent relating to the joint venture’s Tommy Hilfiger businesses. Our Tommy Hilfiger International segment includes the results of our Tommy Hilfiger wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint ventures in Brazil and India to the extent relating to the joint ventures’ Tommy Hilfiger businesses.

Calvin Klein Business Overview

Calvin Klein is a global fashion lifestyle brand with bold, progressive ideals and a sensual aesthetic. Global retail sales of products sold under the Calvin Klein brands, including sales by our licensees, were approximately $6.2 billion and $9.4 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decline in global retail sales in 2020 was primarily due to the significant adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the businesses of our licensees. The Calvin Klein brands provide us with the opportunity to market a range of products both domestically and internationally at various price points, through multiple distribution channels and to different consumer groups. Our brand strategy provides a focused, consistent approach to global growth and development intended to preserve the brand’s prestige and image.

The Calvin Klein brands consist of CK Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein, Calvin Klein Jeans, Calvin Klein Underwear and Calvin Klein Performance. Products are sold globally in our stores, through our wholesale partners (in stores and online), through pure play digital commerce retailers and on calvinklein.com, and principally consist of men’s and women’s sportswear, jeanswear, underwear, swimwear, footwear and accessories. The Calvin Klein brands also are licensed for a broad range of lifestyle products, including fragrance, women's apparel, footwear, eyewear, watches and jewelry in various countries and regions, as well as for certain territories.
4


Approximately $230 million and $365 million was spent globally in 2020 and 2019, respectively, in connection with the advertising, marketing and promotion of the Calvin Klein brands, with a significant portion related to digital media spend. Approximately 30% and 40% of these expenses in 2020 and 2019, respectively, were funded by Calvin Klein’s licensees and other authorized users of the brands. We reduced our marketing and other discretionary spend in 2020 in response to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Calvin Klein’s global marketing and communications strategy is to bring together all facets of the consumer marketing experience. The Calvin Klein brands continue to generate compelling brand and cultural relevancy by continually evolving and driving consumer engagement. Marketing campaigns for the brand are focused on a truly digital first, socially powered experience for consumers, through the use of global and regional brand ambassadors, capsule collections and experiential events.

Through our Calvin Klein North America and Calvin Klein International segments, we sell Calvin Klein products in a variety of distribution channels, including:

•Wholesale — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products in North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil under the Calvin Klein brands. In North America, distribution is primarily through warehouse clubs, department and specialty stores, and off-price and independent retailers, as well as digital commerce sites operated by department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers. In Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil, distribution is through department and specialty stores, and digital commerce sites operated by department store customers and pure play digital commerce retailers, as well as through distributors and franchisees.

•Retail — principally consists of the distribution and sale of products under the Calvin Klein brands in our stores in North America, Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil, as well as on the calvinklein.com sites we operate in these regions. Our stores in North America are primarily located in premium outlet centers. In Europe, the Asia-Pacific region and Brazil, we operate full-price and outlet stores, as well as concession locations.
•Licensing — we license the Calvin Klein brands throughout the world in connection with a broad array of product categories. In these arrangements, Calvin Klein combines its design, marketing and branding skills with the specific manufacturing, distribution and geographic capabilities of its partners to develop, market and distribute these goods, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. Calvin Klein has approximately 40 licensing and other arrangements across the Calvin Klein brands. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Territorial licensees include our joint ventures in India and Mexico.

Calvin Klein’s key licensees, and the products and territories licensed, include:
								
Licensee	 	Product Category and Territory
 	 	 
CK21 Holdings Pte. Ltd.	 	
Men’s and women’s CK Calvin Klein apparel (Asia, excluding Japan)
		
CK Watch & Jewelry Co., Ltd.
(Swatch SA)	 	Men’s and women’s watches and jewelry (worldwide) *
 	 	 
Coty Inc.	 	Men’s and women’s fragrance (worldwide)
 	 	 
Himatsingka Seide, Ltd.	 	Soft home bed and bath furnishings (United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe, Middle East, Asia and India)
 	 	 
G-III	 	Women’s coats, suits, dresses, sportswear, jeanswear, active performancewear, handbags and small leather goods, men’s coats, men’s and women’s luggage and men’s and women’s swimwear (United States and Canada with luggage jurisdictions including Europe, Asia and elsewhere)
 	 	 
MBF Holdings LLC (effective January 1, 2021; formerly licensed to Jimlar Corporation)	 	
Men’s and women’s Calvin Klein and Calvin Klein Jeans footwear (United States and Canada)
 	 	 
Marchon Eyewear, Inc.	 	Men’s and women’s optical frames and sunglasses (worldwide)
 	 	 
Peerless Clothing International, Inc.	 	Men’s tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico)
*Licenses will transition to a new licensee effective in 2022.    
5


Our Calvin Klein North America segment includes the results of our Calvin Klein wholesale, retail and licensing activities in the United States, Canada and Mexico, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint venture in Mexico and in PVH Legwear, in each case to the extent relating to the joint venture’s Calvin Klein businesses. Our Calvin Klein International segment includes the results of our Calvin Klein wholesale, retail and licensing activities outside of North America, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investment in our joint venture in India relating to the joint venture’s Calvin Klein business.

Heritage Brands Business Overview

Our Heritage Brands business designs, sources and markets a varied selection of dress shirts, neckwear, sportswear, intimate apparel, underwear and related apparel and accessories, and licenses certain of our heritage brands trademarks for an assortment of products. We design, source and market substantially all of these products on a brand-by-brand basis, targeting distinct consumer demographics and lifestyles in an effort to minimize competition among our brands. Global retail sales of products sold under our owned and licensed heritage brands trademarks, including sales by our licensees, were approximately $1.8 billion and $3.3 billion in 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decline in global retail sales in 2020 was primarily due to the significant adverse impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the businesses of our licensees.

Through our Heritage Brands Wholesale and Heritage Brands Retail segments, we sell products in a variety of distribution channels, including:

Wholesale — We principally distribute our Heritage Brands products at wholesale in the United States and Canada through department, chain and specialty stores, warehouse clubs, mass market and off-price retailers (in stores and online), as well as through pure play digital commerce retailers. Products sold through this channel principally consist of:

•Men’s dress shirts and neckwear under brands including Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW and Geoffrey Beene, as well as certain other owned and licensed brands, and to a lesser extent, private label brands. We believe our product offerings collectively represent a sizeable portion of the domestic dress furnishings market.

•Men’s sportswear, including tops, bottoms and outerwear, principally under the Van Heusen, IZOD and ARROW brands. IZOD and Van Heusen were the first and second best-selling national brand men’s woven sport shirts, respectively, in United States department and chain stores in 2020.

•Women’s intimate apparel under the Warner’s, Olga and True&Co. brands. Warner’s was the fifth best-selling brand for bras and panties in United States department and chain stores in 2020.

Retail — We also market products directly to consumers through our Heritage Brands stores, primarily located in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. We announced in July 2020 a plan to exit our Heritage Brands Retail business, which will result in the closing of these stores by mid-2021. Approximately 40 of the 162 Heritage Brands Retail stores had been closed by the end of 2020. We also sell our products in the United States through our directly operated digital commerce sites for Van Heusen and IZOD.

Licensing — We license our Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Geoffrey Beene, Warner’s and Olga brands globally for a broad range of products through approximately 70 license agreements. We provide support to our licensees and seek to preserve the integrity of our brands by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of each licensed product, most of which are subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The arrangements generally are exclusive to a territory or product category. Territorial licenses include our joint venture in Mexico.

6

Our Heritage Brands licensees, and the products and territories licensed by them, include:
								
Licensee	 	Product Category and Territory
 	 	 
Arvind Fashions Limited
	 	
ARROW men’s and women’s dresswear, sportswear and accessories (India, Middle East, Nepal and Sri Lanka)

 	 	 
Basic Resources, Inc.	 	
Van Heusen and IZOD men’s and boys’ knit and woven underwear (United States and Canada)

		
Five Star Blue, LLC
		
IZOD men’s denim, twill pants and shorts (United States)
		
F&T Apparel LLC	 	
Van Heusen and ARROW boys’ dress furnishings and sportswear; IZOD boys’ sportswear; IZOD and ARROW boys’ and girls’ school uniforms (United States)

 	 	 
I.C.C. International Public Company Limited		
ARROW men’s dress furnishings, tailored clothing, sportswear and accessories; ARROW women’s dresswear and sportswear (Thailand, Myanmar, Cambodia and Vietnam)

 	 	 
Peerless Clothing International, Inc.

		
Van Heusen and IZOD men’s tailored clothing (United States, Canada and Mexico); Geoffrey Beene men’s tailored clothing (United States and Canada)


		
Eastman Dress Group Inc. (through certain affiliates)		
IZOD men’s, women’s and children’s footwear (United States, Canada and Mexico); Van Heusen men’s and boys’ footwear (United States and Canada)

Our Heritage Brands Wholesale segment includes the results of our Heritage Brands wholesale and licensing activities, the results of our directly operated digital commerce sites, and our proportionate share of the net income or loss of our investments in our joint venture in Mexico and in PVH Legwear, in each case to the extent relating to the joint venture’s business under our heritage brands trademarks. Our Heritage Brands Retail segment includes the results of our stores operated under one or more of our heritage brands trademarks.

Our Business Strategy

As we emerge from the global pandemic, we are focused on driving an accelerated recovery and delivering long-term sustainable growth through the following strategic priorities:

•Winning with the consumer by gaining a deeper understanding of their choices and positioning our brands to best capture the heart of the core consumer.

•Driving the success of our product by focusing on key categories, including casual essentials and athleisure, and developing strong hero product that the consumer desires, connecting the products to where the consumer is shopping, and strengthening our commitment to sustainability and circularity. We will be rationalizing unproductive styles and evolving our supply chain to adapt more quickly to change, including reducing lead times and improving inventory to better match the consumer demand.

•Optimizing and maximizing our distribution in growing channels where the consumer is shopping, including further driving our digital commerce growth and penetration, while optimizing our brick and mortar presence, both in our stores and the stores of our wholesale partners around the world.

•Leveraging and building upon our historical strength in marketing to drive brand heat, consumer engagement and conversion, and expand the consumer base and loyalty with a focus on the biggest growth markets.

•Driving operating efficiencies through right sizing and aligning the cost structure to our strategic priorities and better leveraging our global functions to become faster, leaner and simpler.
7


•Powering brands that drive fashion forward – for good – and infuse sustainability, inclusion and diversity in everything we do.

•Developing a talented and skilled workforce that embodies our core values and an entrepreneurial spirit, while empowering our associates to design their future.

We believe our long-term strategic priorities focus on driving brand relevance, will deliver sustainable, profitable growth, and generate free cash flow to create long-term value.

 Other Strategic Opportunities

We believe we have an attractive and diverse portfolio of brands with growth potential. However, we continue to further optimize our non-core brands and businesses, particularly in our Heritage Brands business. We also continue to explore strategic acquisitions of companies or trademarks and licensing opportunities that we believe are additive to our overall business, including product category or platform capability expertise and brand positioning and design perspective needs. We take a disciplined approach to acquisitions, seeking brands with broad consumer recognition that we can grow profitably and expand by leveraging our infrastructure and core competencies.

Seasonality

Our business generally follows a seasonal pattern. Our wholesale businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the first and third quarters, while our retail businesses tend to generate higher levels of sales in the fourth quarter. Royalty, advertising and other revenue tends to be earned somewhat evenly throughout the year, although the third quarter has the highest level of royalty revenue due to higher sales by licensees in advance of the holiday selling season. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted these historical patterns, however. We otherwise expect this seasonal pattern will generally continue. Working capital requirements vary throughout the year to support these seasonal patterns and business trends.

Design

Our business depends on our ability to appeal and respond to consumer tastes and demands, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and delivering a compelling price value proposition where the consumer is shopping.

Our in-house design teams are significant contributors to the continued strength of our brands. Each of our branded businesses employs its own teams of designers and merchandisers that develop products representing its brands’ aesthetics, while also being mindful of consumers’ tastes, lifestyle needs and current fashion trends. To reflect consumer variances in each of our regional markets, the businesses tailor their products and offerings to appeal to local tastes, fit differences or other preferences, while maintaining the cohesive creative vision for each brand. Our teams have expanded their use of 3D design technology to enhance our design capabilities, which has been accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic, reducing the need for samples early in the design process and the time needed to bring products to market, and 3D showrooms to enhance the experience of our vendors, while being cost and time efficient.

Product Sourcing

We have an extensive established network of worldwide sourcing partners that enables us to meet our customers’ needs in an efficient manner without relying on any one vendor or factory or on vendors or factories in any one country. Our products were produced in approximately 1,200 factories in over 40 countries during 2020. All but one of these factories were operated by independent manufacturers, with most being located in Asia.

We source finished products and, to a limited extent, raw materials and trim. Raw materials and trim include fabric, buttons, thread, labels and similar components. Finished products consist of manufactured and fully assembled products ready for shipment to our customers and our stores. Raw material, trim, and finished product commitments are generally made two to six months prior to production. We believe we are one of the largest users of shirting fabric in the world. We believe that an ample number of alternative suppliers exist should we need to secure additional or replacement production capacity and raw materials.

8

Our purchases from our suppliers are effected through individual purchase orders specifying the price, quantity, delivery date and destination of the items to be produced. Sales are monitored regularly at both the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made either to increase or reduce inventories. We look to establish long-term supplier relationships in the appropriate locations throughout the world to meet our needs and we place our orders in a manner designed to limit the risk that a production disruption at any one facility could cause a serious inventory problem, while seeking to maximize the pricing opportunities. The COVID-19 pandemic has had impacts throughout our supply chain, including temporary closures of supplier factories, as well as factories operating at reduced capacity. We continue to monitor for any potential delays or disruptions in our supply chain and will implement mitigation plans if needed.

The manufacturers of our products are required to meet our quality, human rights, safety, environmental and cost requirements. Our global supply chain teams, offices and buying agents enable us to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery performance of, our suppliers and work with our global compliance teams to ensure the enforcement of our human rights and labor standards and other code of conduct requirements through our ongoing extensive training, approval and monitoring system. They also monitor and track the primary cost inputs to the finished product to ensure that we pay the most appropriate cost for our finished goods.

We continue to explore new areas of production that can grow with our businesses. Our country of origin strategy provides a flexible approach to product sourcing, which enables us to maximize regional opportunities and mitigate our potential exposure to risks associated with new duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import controls or restrictions. While China remains an important sourcing country for us, we have been reducing the amount of production we do in the country over time in favor of production in other parts of Asia and in Africa that better serve our sourcing strategy. Many of these efforts have been with our existing partners, but in facilities and countries that offer us production or cost advantages over those in China. Another example of our efforts to evolve our supply chain is PVH Arvind Manufacturing Private Limited Company (“PVH Ethiopia”), a joint venture that we formed with Arvind Limited (“Arvind”). PVH Ethiopia began producing finished products in Ethiopia during 2017. The goods produced are primarily distributed in the United States through our Heritage Brands business.

We also continue to develop strategies that can enhance the operational efficiency of our supply chain and unlock gross margin opportunities. We have incorporated 3D technology to enhance our design capabilities, which reduce our lead times, improve our planning abilities and eliminate the need for early samples in the design process. Speed is another critical focus area across the Company. We have implemented various speed models, core replenishment and read and react capabilities for select categories to enhance our operations and make our business model more dynamic and responsive, while also increasing service levels, reducing inventory exposure and improving quality and consumer value. We believe the enhancement of our supply chain efficiencies and working capital management through the effective use of our distribution network and overall infrastructure will allow us to control costs better and provide improved service to our customers.

Corporate Responsibility

As an industry leader and one of the largest branded apparel companies in the world, we recognize that we have a responsibility to address our social and environmental impacts. Corporate responsibility has always played a critical role within our broader business strategy. We are steadfast in our commitment to drive fashion forward – for good – by finding innovative and responsible solutions to protect our planet, cultivating an environment of inclusion, diversity and equity, and improving the lives of women and children where we live and work.

Forward Fashion is our strategy to transform how clothes are made and (re)used, and the actions we are taking to move our business and the fashion industry toward a more innovative and responsible future. We are committed to the goals outlined in our Forward Fashion strategy and are taking action in a number of ways, including joining key pledges, industry groups and stakeholder initiatives that align with our strategy. Forward Fashion has three focus areas that guide our activities and drive impact across our business:

•Reduce negative impacts — Our ambition is for our products and business operations to generate zero waste, zero carbon emissions and zero hazardous chemicals. This means protecting our environment by reducing energy use and powering our business through renewable sources, diverting the waste we send to landfills, eliminating water pollution from our wet processors, and fostering and harnessing innovation to design and manufacture products that eliminate product waste.

•Increase positive impacts — Our ambition is for 100% of our products and packaging to be ethically and sustainably sourced from suppliers who respect human rights and are good employers.
9


•Improve lives across our value chain — Our ambition is to improve the lives of the over one million people across our value chain, focusing on education and opportunities for women and children, ensuring access to clean water, investing in health and education initiatives, and continuing to champion inclusion and diversity.

Our businesses are an integral part of our Forward Fashion strategy and are equally committed to delivering against our corporate responsibility priorities.
    
We issue an annual report on our corporate responsibility efforts that can be found on our corporate website.

Warehousing, Distribution and Logistics

Our products are shipped from manufacturers to our wholesale and retail warehousing and distribution centers for inspection, sorting, packing and shipment. Centers range in size and our main facilities, some of which are operated by independent third parties, are located in the United States, the Netherlands, Canada, China, Japan, South Korea, Brazil and Australia. Our warehousing and distribution centers are designed to provide responsive service to our customers and our retail stores on a cost-effective basis.

Material Customers

Our largest customers account for significant portions of our revenue. Sales to our five largest customers were 16.3% of our revenue in 2020, 18.4% of our revenue in 2019 and 18.9% of our revenue in 2018. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2020, 2019 or 2018.

Advertising and Promotion

Our marketing programs are an integral component of our brands’ relevance and success of the products offered under them. We build each of our brands to be a leader in its respective market segment, with strong consumer awareness, relevance and consumer loyalty. We design and market our products to complement each other, satisfy lifestyle needs, emphasize product features important to our target consumers, including sustainability attributes, deliver a strong price/value proposition and encourage consumer loyalty.

Our marketing and advertising efforts encompass marketing, communications, social media and special events. Our in-house teams coordinate our brands’ marketing and advertising, building personalized relationships and tailoring the overall consumer experience for all regions and product lines, and across all channels of distribution. We believe that this enhanced marketing approach enables us to meet our consumers’ needs as we adapt to their rapidly changing demands.

A significant emphasis of our marketing programs is digital media, including our digital commerce platforms and social media channels, which allow us to expand our consumer reach and enable us to provide timely information in an entertaining fashion in regard to our products, special events, promotions and store locations. Tommy Hilfiger’s digital commerce site, tommy.com, and Calvin Klein’s digital commerce site, calvinklein.com, serve as marketing vehicles to complement the ongoing development of the TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein lifestyle brands, respectively, in addition to offering a broad array of apparel and licensed products. We also operate our Heritage Brands digital commerce sites in the United States for Van Heusen and IZOD. In 2020, a significant portion of our marketing and advertising spend related to digital media.

We leverage new ways to engage consumers through livestreaming fashion shows and other consumer activations and in partnership with top live-streamers and pure play partners. In addition, we advertise our brands through sport sponsorships and product tie-ins. We believe that our use of high-profile brand ambassadors and well-known social media influencers helps drive our brand awareness and cultural relevance. We have focused on better aligning regional needs with regional and local ambassadors and influencers to best cater to local market needs and unique activations. Additionally, the marketing and communications team coordinates personal appearances by Mr. Tommy Hilfiger, including at brand events, as part of its efforts.

We also advertise through select print media (including fashion, entertainment/human interest, business, men’s, women’s and sports magazines, and newspapers), on television, through outdoor signage and through in-store point of sale materials, as well as participate in cooperative advertising programs with our retail partners. With respect to our retail outlet stores, the majority of which are located in premium outlet centers in the United States and Canada, we generally rely upon
10

local outlet mall developers to promote traffic for their centers. Outlet center developers employ multiple formats, including signage, print advertising, direct marketing, radio and television advertising, and special promotions.        

Trademarks

We own the TOMMY HILFIGER, Calvin Klein, Van Heusen, IZOD, ARROW, Warner’s, Olga, True&Co. and Geoffrey Beene brands, as well as related trademarks (e.g., the interlocking “IZ” logo for IZOD and the TOMMY HILFIGER flag logo and crest design) and lesser-known names. These trademarks are registered for use in each of the primary countries where our products are sold and additional applications for registration of these and other trademarks are made in jurisdictions to accommodate new marks, uses in additional trademark classes or additional categories of goods or expansion into new countries.

Mr. Tommy Hilfiger is prohibited in perpetuity from using, or authorizing others to use, the TOMMY HILFIGER marks (except for the use by Mr. Hilfiger of his name personally and in connection with certain specified activities). In addition, we are prohibited in perpetuity from selling products not ordinarily sold under the names of prestige designer businesses or prestige global lifestyle brands without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, from engaging in new lines of business materially different from such types of lines of business without Mr. Hilfiger’s consent, or from disparaging or intentionally tarnishing the TOMMY HILFIGER-related marks or Mr. Hilfiger’s personal name.

We own the Calvin Klein marks and derivative marks in all trademark classes and for all product categories through our ownership of Calvin Klein Trademark Trust (“the Trust”), which is the sole and exclusive title owner of substantially all registrations of the Calvin Klein trademarks. The sole purpose of the Trust is to hold these marks. Calvin Klein maintains and protects the marks on behalf of the Trust. The Trust licenses the use of the trademarks to two of our subsidiaries on an exclusive, irrevocable, perpetual and royalty-free basis.

Mr. Calvin Klein retains the right to use his name, on a non-competitive basis, with respect to his right of publicity, unless those rights are already being used in our Calvin Klein business. Mr. Klein has also been granted a royalty-free worldwide right to use the Calvin Klein mark with respect to certain personal businesses and activities, subject to certain limitations designed to protect the image and prestige of the Calvin Klein brands and to avoid competitive conflicts.

Our trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending applications throughout the world for use on a variety of apparel, footwear and related products, as well as licensed product categories, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration of new and related trademarks. In general, trademarks remain valid and enforceable as long as the marks continue to be used in connection with the products and services with which they are identified and, as to registered tradenames, the required registration renewals are filed. In markets where products bearing any of our brands are not sold by us or any of our licensees or other authorized users, our rights to the use of trademarks may not be clearly established.

Our trademarks and other intellectual property rights are valuable assets and we vigorously seek to protect them on a worldwide basis against infringement. We are susceptible to others imitating our products and infringing on our intellectual property rights. This is especially the case with respect to the TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein brands, as these brands enjoy significant worldwide consumer recognition and the generally higher pricing of products sold under them (as compared to goods sold under our heritage brands trademarks) provides significant opportunity and incentive for counterfeiters and infringers. We have broad, proactive enforcement programs that we believe have been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in our key markets.

Competition

The apparel industry is competitive as a result of its fashion orientation, mix of large and small producers, low barriers to entry, the flow of domestic and imported merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign designers, brand owners, manufacturers and retailers of apparel, accessories and footwear, including, in certain circumstances, the private label brands of our wholesale customers. Additionally, with the shift in consumer shopping preferences driving growth in the digital channel, there are more companies in the apparel sector and an increased level of transparency in pricing and product comparisons, which impacts purchasing decisions. As well, as consumers are increasingly focused on circularity with respect to apparel, companies that enable consumers to rent or purchase pre-owned apparel also impact purchasing decisions.

We believe we are well-positioned to compete in the apparel industry on the basis of style, quality, price and service. Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer tastes and demand, as well as on our ability to remain competitive in
11

these areas. Our diversified portfolio of brands and products and our use of multiple channels of distribution have allowed us to develop a business that produces results that are not dependent on any one demographic group, merchandise preference, distribution channel or region. We have developed a portfolio of brands that appeals to a broad spectrum of consumers. Our brands generally have long histories and enjoy high recognition and awareness within their respective consumer segments. The worldwide recognition of the TOMMY HILFIGER and Calvin Klein brands provides us with significant global opportunities to expand their global penetration in existing markets, into new markets and into additional product categories.

Imports and Import Restrictions

Most of our products are imported into the countries where they are sold. These products are subject to various customs laws, which may impose tariffs, as well as quota restrictions. In addition, each of the countries in which our products are sold has laws and regulations covering imports. The United States and other countries in which we sell our products may impose, from time to time, new duties, tariffs, surcharges, or other import controls or restrictions, including the imposition of a “safeguard quota,” or adjust presently prevailing duty or tariff rates or levels. We, therefore, maintain a program of intensive monitoring of import restrictions and developments. We seek to minimize, where possible, our potential exposure to import related risks through, among other measures, adjustments in product design and fabrication, shifts of production among countries, including consideration of countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements, and manufacturers, and geographical diversification of our sources of supply. In some instances, production of a specific product category, component parts or raw materials may be highly concentrated in one country.

The United States and China are involved in a trade dispute that saw the imposition in 2019 of significant additional tariffs on the products we sell that are imported into the United States from China. These tariffs remain in place. Additionally, other governmental actions can have an impact on our ability to import goods. Please see our risk factor “We primarily use foreign suppliers for our products and raw materials, which poses risks to our business operations” in Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” for further discussion.

Government Regulations

Our business is subject to various United States federal state, and local and foreign laws and regulations, including environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. In addition, we may incur liability under environmental statutes and regulations with respect to the contamination of sites that we own or operate or previously owned or operated (including contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites and neighboring properties, or other persons) and the off-site disposal of hazardous materials. We believe our operations are in compliance with the terms of all applicable laws and regulations and our compliance with these laws and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, cash flows, earnings or competitive position.

Human Capital Resources

We believe that attracting, developing and retaining diverse talent is critical to our long-term success. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to create a strong associate experience and a diverse and inclusive workplace, with opportunities for our associates to grow and develop in their careers, supported by competitive compensation, benefits and health and wellness programs, and by programs that build connections between our associates and their communities.

The PVH Board of Directors and its committees provide oversight on human capital matters. The Nominating, Governance & Management Development Committee is charged, in part, with monitoring issues of corporate conduct and culture, and provides oversight of diversity, equity and inclusion policies and programs as it relates to our management development, talent assessment and succession planning programs and processes. Our Corporate Responsibility Committee through its charter is responsible for monitoring policies and performance related to corporate responsibility, including social, employment, environmental and other matters.

12

Associate Information

As of January 31, 2021, we employed approximately 33,000 associates globally, of which approximately 13,000 associates were employed on a part-time basis. Approximately 45% of our associates are employed in the United States. Globally, approximately 66% of our associates are employed in Company-operated retail stores, 27% are assigned to offices and 7% are employed in warehousing and distribution facilities. Our use of seasonal workers is not significant and is largely associated with the Christmas and Lunar New Year selling periods. Approximately 2% of our total associate population is represented for the purpose of collective bargaining by four different unions in the United States. Our collective bargaining agreements generally are for three-year terms. In some international markets, a significant percentage of associates are covered by governmental labor arrangements. Additionally, we have one or more works councils in several European countries. Works councils are organizations that represent workers in respect to certain actions management seeks to take that could have a broad effect on the workers. We believe that our relations with our associates are good.

Inclusion and Diversity

Our culture is grounded in our values. We seek to cultivate an environment of inclusion, belonging and equity for all to build a better workplace, drive innovation in the marketplace and create positive impacts in our communities.

We believe we benefit from the unique strengths that each of our associates brings to the workplace, and that a diverse workforce is critical to our long-term success. We strive to improve continuously and make PVH an inclusive work environment through diversity recruitment, development programs, and equitable policies and initiatives. One example is our business resource groups, which are associate-initiated and associate-led groups that foster an inclusive culture and are intended to contribute to the overall success of the business. These groups, which are dedicated to bringing associates together to increase professional and social networks, enhance career development and business acumen, and contribute to building a more inclusive work environment, are supported by our global and regional Inclusion and Diversity (“I&D”) Councils and include: (i) UPWARD – Uniting Professional Women Advancing Relationships & Development – for our female associates; (ii) WERK – Well-Connected, Equality, Resourcefulness and Knowledge – for our LGBTQIA+ associates; (iii) BRAAVE – Building Resources for African American Voices and Empowerment – for our Black and BIPOC associates; and (iv) Working Parents – for our associates who are parents.

In 2020, we hired a Chief Diversity Officer to lead the development and implementation of an integrated global I&D strategy and work to enhance our ability to attract, develop, retain and promote diverse talent. The diversity of the Board of Directors continues to be a focus of the Board refreshment program. The five directors who have joined the Board since 2015 include four women and a director who self-identifies as Black and LGBTQIA+. These directors bring with them strong operating and industry experiences, as well as contributing important and diverse perspectives that helps better mirror the overall make-up of our associate and consumer populations.

Our I&D efforts have been recognized over the years, including being named to Forbes Best Employers for Diversity and America’s Best Employers for Women List in 2020, and as one of America’s 100 Most JUST Companies by Forbes magazine and JUST Capital in 2021. We also received a score of 100% on the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index in 2021, for the fifth year in a row.

Talent Management and Development

Our talent management and development processes support associate performance and development, talent reviews and succession planning. We regularly review succession plans and conduct assessments to identify talent needs and growth paths for our associates.

Developing our associates is a key strategic priority for us, with the focus on developing leaders and preparing the workforce for the future. PVH University, our global internal learning and development program, provides tools and learning opportunities that empower associates to build core competencies and develop skills necessary for improvement and advancement through engaging and impactful learning content. PVH University programs include, among other things, academies for leadership and a Leaders as Teachers program in which our associates instruct on topics in their area of expertise. The PVH University library and curriculum includes its digital academy to build enterprise digital and data literacy, as well as to support digital transformation initiatives. Additionally, our approach to performance and development is designed to motivate our associates to develop, leverage our associate’s strengths and support a coaching and feedback culture, while supporting our talent and succession planning efforts.
13


Compensation, Benefits and Wellness

We are committed to providing market competitive compensation and benefits, tailoring our offerings to the countries and regions where our associates work to best position our programs locally while recognizing differing levels and types of government-provided benefits. These benefits include, among other things, a corporate wellness program, retirement plan benefits, flexible working arrangements, an employee assistance program, paid parental leave, recognition programs (for exemplary work, work anniversaries, etc.) and an associate discount program. We also are committed to achieving pay equity and have developed consistent guidelines and practices on compensation. In addition, we have established through The PVH Foundation, our philanthropic organization, a Company- and associate-funded Associate Relief Fund that provides grants to eligible associates experiencing personal hardship due to natural disasters, personal calamities and other events.

The health and safety of our associates is of utmost importance to us. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our associates, as well as the communities in which we operate. This included implementing measures to support high safety standards in our retail stores, offices and distribution centers, including temporary closures, remote working, reduced occupancy levels, social-distancing, sanitation measures and the distribution of re-usable three-layer cloth masks. In addition, the vast majority of our office-based associates continue to work remotely.

Associate and Community Engagement

We believe it is critical that our associates are informed and engaged. We communicate frequently with our associates through a variety of methods, including our news app, PVH Insider, which reaches associates around the world; our intranet site, the Thread; town hall meetings on regional, business-wide and global bases; and associate surveys.

Local community engagement activities exist in all major office locations. Our global philanthropic efforts are led by The PVH Foundation, a nonprofit corporation which supports global, national, and local nonprofits in communities where our associates work and live. PVH’s matching gift program allows our associates to have their philanthropic donations to qualifying organizations matched by The PVH Foundation to increase their impact. Associates are also offered paid time off each year to volunteer with organizations of their choice.

We encourage you to read our annual Corporate Responsibility Report on our PVH.com corporate website for more detailed information regarding our environmental, social and corporate governance programs and initiatives. Our website, our Corporate Responsibility Report and portions thereof are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.


Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each of our executive officers:
														
Name		Age		Position
Stefan Larsson		46 			Chief Executive Officer
Michael A. Shaffer		58 			Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer
Martijn Hagman		46 			Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Global and PVH Europe
Patricia Donnelly		54 			Chief Executive Officer, PVH Americas
Mark D. Fischer		59 			Executive Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary
Julie Fuller		47 			Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer

Mr. Larsson joined us as President in 2019 and became Chief Executive Officer effective February 1, 2021. From 2015 until 2017, Mr. Larsson was President and Chief Executive Officer of Ralph Lauren Corporation. From 2012 until 2015, he was the Global President of Old Navy, Inc., a division of The Gap, Inc.

Mr. Shaffer has been employed by us since 1990. He served as Senior Vice President, Retail Operations immediately prior to being named Executive Vice President, Finance in 2005, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 2006, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating & Financial Officer in 2012.

14

Mr. Hagman has been employed by us (including his employment within our Tommy Hilfiger organization prior to the Tommy Hilfiger acquisition) since 2008. He was named Chief Financial Officer, PVH Europe in 2013, Chief Operating & Financial Officer, PVH Europe in 2017, and Chief Executive Officer, Tommy Hilfiger Global and PVH Europe in 2020.

Ms. Donnelly joined us as Chief Executive Officer, PVH Americas on February 16, 2021. Ms. Donnelly was Chief Executive Officer, Urban Outfitters Group, a division of Urban Outfitters, Inc., from 2016 until January 2021, having served previously as North America Brand President of the division upon joining Urban Outfitters, Inc. in 2014.
    
Mr. Fischer joined us as Vice President, General Counsel & Secretary in 1999. He became Senior Vice President in 2007 and Executive Vice President in 2013.

Ms. Fuller, Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer since January 1, 2021, joined us as Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer In Transition in September 2020. From 2017 until 2020, Ms. Fuller was Vice President, Global Talent and Organizational Effectiveness of Nike, Inc., having served previously as Nike, Inc.’s Vice President, Human Resources North America from 2015 until 2017.
