Item 1. Business

Regency Centers Corporation is a fully integrated real estate company and self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that began its operations as a publicly-traded REIT in 1993. Regency Centers L.P. is the entity through which Regency Centers Corporation conducts substantially all of its operations and owns substantially all of its assets. Our business consists of acquiring, developing, owning and operating income-producing retail real estate principally located in many of the top markets in the United States.  We generate revenues by leasing space to retail tenants such as highly productive grocers, restaurants, service providers, and best-in-class retailers. Regency has been an S&P 500 Index member since 2017.

As of December 31, 2020, we had full or partial ownership interests in 411 properties, primarily anchored by market leading grocery stores, encompassing 51.9 million square feet (“SF”) of gross leasable area (“GLA”). Our Pro-rata share of this GLA is 42.2 million square feet, including our share of the partially owned properties.

Our mission is to be the preeminent national owner, operator, and developer of shopping centers, creating places that provide a thriving environment for outstanding retailers and service providers to connect with the surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Our goals are to:

 

•

Own and manage a portfolio of high-quality neighborhood and community shopping centers primarily anchored by market leading grocers and located in affluent suburban and near urban trade areas in the country’s most desirable metro areas. We expect that this combination will produce highly desirable and attractive centers with best-in-class retailers. These centers should command higher rental and occupancy rates resulting in excellent prospects to grow net operating income (“NOI”);

 

•

Maintain an industry leading and disciplined development and redevelopment platform to deliver exceptional retail centers at higher returns as compared to acquisitions;

 

•

Support our business activities with a conservative capital structure, including a strong balance sheet;

 

•

Implement leading environmental, social, and governance practices through our Corporate Responsibility Program;

 

•

Engage an exceptional and diverse team that is guided by our strong values and special culture, while fostering an environment of innovation and continuous improvement; and

 

•

Create shareholder value by increasing earnings and dividends per share and generate total returns at or near the top of our shopping center peers.

1

 

Key strategies to achieve our goals are to:

 

•

Sustain same property NOI growth that over the long-term consistently ranks at or near the top of our shopping center peers;

 

•

Develop and redevelop high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment;

 

•

Maintain a conservative balance sheet that provides liquidity, financial flexibility and cost effective funding of investment opportunities, while also managing debt maturities that enable us to weather economic downturns;

 

•

Maintain high standards for corporate governance and act as good stewards of our communities and the environment; and

 

•

Attract and motivate an exceptional team of diverse employees who operate efficiently and are recognized as industry leaders.

COVID-19 Pandemic

On March 11, 2020, the novel coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) was declared a pandemic (“COVID-19 pandemic” or the “pandemic”) by the World Health Organization as the disease spread throughout the world.  The pandemic continues to evolve, making the broader implications on our future results of operations and overall financial performance uncertain at this time.  While much of our lease income is derived from contractual rent payments, our tenants’ ability to meet their lease obligations has been negatively impacted by the disruptions and uncertainties of the pandemic.  Certain of our tenants’ ability to respond to these disruptions, including adapting to governmental orders, recommendations, and changes in their customers’ shopping habits and behaviors, could influence their ability to survive and ultimately fulfill their lease obligations.  While the announcement of vaccine approvals by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) in early December 2020 was a positive development, at about the same time, several states and many localities reinstituted mandatory business limitations and closures as infection rates increased, in advance of full scale vaccine deployment.  Forced closures may continue to occur as infection rates increase or additional strains of the virus emerge, while the speed of vaccine rollout remains uncertain.  

Due to the pandemic, certain tenants have requested rent concessions or have sought to renegotiate future rents based on changes to the economic environment.  Other tenants have chosen not to reopen or honor the terms of their existing lease agreements.  In addition, in 2020 we saw a meaningful increase in the number of bankruptcy filings by our tenants versus prior years, which in certain cases can lead to a tenant “rejecting” (terminating) one or more of our leases as permitted by applicable bankruptcy law, or seeking to negotiate reduced rent as part of the bankruptcy reorganization process.  

We are closely monitoring our rent collections from our tenants, which significantly declined from historic levels at the start of the pandemic, but have since gradually improved.  As of February 8, 2021, we experienced sequential improvement in our collection rates of Pro-rata base rent billed by quarter in 2020 as follows:

 

 

Q2

 

 

Q3

 

 

Q4

 

Base Rent Collections

 

79%

 

 

89%

 

 

92%

 

Since the pandemic began, we have executed approximately 1,600 rent deferral agreements within our consolidated and unconsolidated real estate portfolios.  The weighted average deferral period of these agreements is approximately 3.3 months, with repayment periods of approximately 9.7 months beginning on average in December 2020.  In some cases, we expect to continue to work with tenants to address the adverse impacts of the pandemic, which may result in further rent deferrals, concessions or abatements.  As a result, there can be no assurance that our future base rent collection percentages will continue at or above Q4 2020 levels, or that cash flows from operations will be sufficient to sustain and fund our dividend payments without the benefit of other sources of capital or changes to our current dividend levels.  In the event of a surge in COVID-19 cases or new governmental restrictions causing our tenants to reduce their operations or close, our base rent collection percentages and percent leased could decline from current levels.

New leasing activity declined in 2020 and is expected to remain below 2019 levels into 2021 as businesses delay executing leases amidst the immediate and uncertain future economic impacts of the pandemic.  This, coupled with tenant failures and bankruptcies, may result in decreased demand for retail space in our centers, which could result in difficulty attracting new tenants resulting in pricing pressure on rents.  Additionally, if construction of tenant improvements are delayed due to the impacts of the pandemic, it may take longer before new tenants are able to open and commence rent payments.

The pandemic has significantly slowed and in certain situations delayed tenant buildouts, new ground up developments or redevelopment of existing properties.  The pandemic has also limited our ability to timely source materials for construction and has caused labor shortages, which have impacted our ability to complete construction projects on anticipated schedules.  In the event a surge in new cases resulting in additional lockdowns occurs, similar impacts to our supply chain may arise which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  We continue to closely monitor our projects, which has resulted in prudently delaying, phasing or curtailing certain of our development, redevelopment and capital expenditure projects.

2

 

The duration and severity of the pandemic across the United States will continue to negatively impact many of our tenants and their ability to meet their rent obligations under their lease agreements.  As such, the pandemic could continue to negatively impact our results of operations and overall financial condition in the future.  See also Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors for further discussion.  

Our business continuity and disaster recovery plan enabled us to continue operating productively during the pandemic.  We have maintained, and expect to continue to maintain, without interruption, our financial reporting systems as well as our internal controls over our financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures.    

Competition

We are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, GLA, and market capitalization.  There are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers.  This results in competition for attracting tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. In addition, brick and mortar shopping centers, in general, face continued competition from alternative shopping and delivery methods, including e-commerce and home delivery. We believe that our competitive advantages are driven by:

 

•

our locations within our market areas;

 

•

the design of our shopping centers including our practice of maintaining and renovating these centers to our high standards of quality;

 

•

the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers;

 

•

our relationships with our anchor, shop, and out-parcel tenants;

 

•

our management experience and expertise; and

 

•

our ability to source and develop new shopping centers.

Corporate Responsibility

Our vision is to be the preeminent national owner, operator and developer of shopping centers, connecting outstanding retailers and service providers with their neighborhoods and communities while striving to achieve best-in-class corporate responsibility. To integrate corporate responsibility into our vision, we focus on three key overarching concepts: long-term value creation, our Regency brand and reputation, and the importance of maintaining our culture.  

We have established four pillars for our corporate responsibility program that we believe enable us to support our vision and implement these concepts:

 

•

Our People;

 

•

Our Communities;

 

•

Ethics and Governance; and

 

•

Environmental Stewardship.

Our People – Our people are our most important asset and we strive to ensure that they are engaged, passionate about their work, connected to their teams, and supported to deliver their best performance. We recognize and value the importance of attracting and retaining talented individuals to Regency’s performance and growth.  We strive to maintain a safe and healthy workspace, promote employee well-being, and empower our employees by focusing on their training and education.  Another key element of our focus on people is our understanding and appreciation of the value of an inclusive and diverse workforce.  In 2020, we began developing and implementing a comprehensive three-year diversity, equity, and inclusion (“DEI”) strategy, which includes training, recruitment, and engagement.  Our employees have been directly engaged in the development of our DEI strategy to ensure they are connected to and actively involved in its implementation across the entirety of our business.

Our Communities – Our predominately grocery-anchored neighborhood centers provide many benefits to the communities in which we live and work, including significant local economic impacts in the form of investment, jobs and taxes.  Our local teams are also passionate about investing in and engaging with our communities, as they customize and cultivate our centers to create a distinctive environment to bring our tenants and shoppers together for the best retail experience. Further, philanthropy and giving back are cornerstones of what we do and who Regency is.  In addition, charitable contributions are made directly by the Company, and the vast majority of our employees donate their time and money to local non-profits serving their communities.

3

 

Ethics and Governance – As long-term stewards of our investors’ capital, we are committed to best-in-class corporate governance. To create long-term value for our stakeholders, we place great emphasis on our culture and core values, the integrity and transparency of our reporting practices, and our overall governance structure in respect of oversight and shareholder rights.

Environmental Stewardship – We believe sustainability is in the best interest of our investors, tenants, employees, and the communities in which we operate, and we strive to integrate sustainable practices throughout our business.  We have six strategic priorities when it comes to identifying and implementing sustainable business practices and minimizing our environmental impact: green building, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, water conservation, waste minimization and management, and climate resilience.  We believe these commitments are not only the right thing to do to address material environmental topics such as air pollution, climate change, and resource scarcity, but also support us in achieving key strategic objectives in our operations and development projects.

More information about our corporate responsibility strategy, goals, performance, and reporting is available on our website at www.regencycenters.com.  The content of our website, including information relating to corporate responsibility, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only.

Employees

Our corporate headquarters are located at One Independent Drive, Suite 114, Jacksonville, Florida.  We presently maintain 22 market offices nationwide, including our corporate headquarters, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities.  We have 431 employees throughout the United States and we believe that our relations with our employees are good.  

Compliance with Governmental Regulations

We are subject to various regulatory and tax-related requirements within the jurisdictions in which we operate.  Changes to such requirements may result in unanticipated financial impacts or adverse tax consequences, and could affect our operating results and financial condition.  Significant regulatory requirements include the laws and regulations described below.

REIT Laws and Regulations

We have elected to be taxed as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. As a REIT, we are generally not subject to federal income tax on taxable income that we distribute to our stockholders. Under the Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), REITs are subject to numerous regulatory requirements, including the requirement to generally distribute at least 90% of taxable income each year. We will be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates if we fail to qualify as a REIT for tax purposes in any taxable year, or to the extent we distribute less than 100% of our taxable income. We will also generally not qualify for treatment as a REIT for federal income tax purposes for four years following the year during which qualification is lost. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be subject to certain state and local income and franchise taxes and to federal income and excise taxes on our undistributed taxable income.

We have elected to treat certain of our subsidiaries as taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”). In general, a TRS may engage in any real estate business and certain non-real estate businesses, subject to certain limitations under the Code. A TRS is subject to federal and state income taxes which, to date, have not been material to us.

Environmental Laws and Regulations

Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to assess and remediate certain hazardous substances at our shopping centers that generally arise from dry cleaners, gas stations, asbestos, and historic land use practices.  These requirements often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or committed the acts or omissions that caused, the presence of the hazardous substances.  The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly address contamination caused by such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral.  Although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of assessment and remediation, known environmental liabilities are not currently expected to have a material financial impact.

4

 

Executive Officers

Our executive officers are appointed each year by our Board of Directors.  Each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years and, as of December 31, 2020, included the following:

 

Name

Age

Title

Executive Officer in

Position Shown Since

Martin E. Stein, Jr.

68

Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors

2020(1)

Lisa Palmer

53

President and Chief Executive Officer

2020 (2)

Michael J. Mas

45

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer

2019 (3)

Dan M. Chandler, III

53

Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer

2019 (4)

James D. Thompson

65

Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer

2019 (5)

 

(1)

Mr. Stein was appointed Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors effective January 1, 2020.  Prior to this appointment, Mr. Stein served as Chief Executive Officer from 1993 through December 31, 2019 and Chairman of the Board since 1999.

 

 

(2)

Ms. Palmer was named Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2020, in addition to her responsibilities as President, which position she has held since January 2016.  Prior to this appointment, Ms. Palmer served as Chief Financial Officer since January 2013. Prior to that, Ms. Palmer served as Senior Vice President of Capital Markets since 2003 and has been with the Company since 1996.

 

 

(3)

Mr. Mas assumed the responsibilities of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer effective August 2019.  Prior to this appointment, Mr. Mas served as Managing Director, Finance, since February 2017, and Senior Vice President, Capital Markets, since 2013.

 

 

(4)

Mr. Chandler assumed the role of Executive Vice President, Chief Investment Officer, effective August 2019, and Executive Vice President of Investments in 2016. Mr. Chandler previously served as Managing Director since 2006.  Prior to that, Mr. Chandler served in various investment officer positions since 1999.

 

 

(5)

Mr. Thompson assumed the role of Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, effective August 2019, and Executive Vice President of Operations in 2016.  Mr. Thompson previously served as our Managing Director - East since 1993.  

 

Company Website Access and SEC Filings

Our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com. All of our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on Form 10-K, the most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q, current reports filed or furnished on Form 8-K, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. These filings are also accessible on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. The content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only.

General Information

Our registrar and stock transfer agent is Broadridge Corporate Issuer Solutions, Inc. (“Broadridge”), Philadelphia, PA. We offer a dividend reinvestment plan (“DRIP”) that enables our shareholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. For more information, contact Broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our Shareholder Relations Department at (904) 598-7000.

The Company’s common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and trades under the stock symbol “REG”.

Our independent registered public accounting firm is KPMG LLP, Jacksonville, Florida. Our legal counsel is Foley & Lardner LLP, Jacksonville, Florida.

Annual Meeting of Shareholders

Our 2021 annual meeting of shareholders is currently expected to be held on Wednesday, May 5, 2021.  In light of public health concerns related to the COVID-19 pandemic, and to help protect the safety of our shareholders, directors, employees, and other participants, the Company’s annual meeting will be conducted in a virtual-only format.  

Defined Terms

In addition to the required Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) presentations, we use certain non-GAAP performance measures as we believe these measures improve the understanding of the Company's operational results.  We believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to our Board of Directors, management and investors regarding certain trends relating to our financial condition and results of operations. Our management uses these non-GAAP measures to compare our performance to that of prior periods for trend analyses, purposes of determining management incentive compensation and budgeting, forecasting and planning

5

 

purposes.  We continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-GAAP performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change.

We do not consider non-GAAP measures an alternative to financial measures determined in accordance with GAAP, rather they supplement GAAP measures by providing additional information we believe to be useful to our shareholders. The principal limitation of these non-GAAP financial measures is they may exclude significant expense and income items that are required by GAAP to be recognized in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, they reflect the exercise of management’s judgment about which expense and income items are excluded or included in determining these non-GAAP financial measures. In order to compensate for these limitations, reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures we use to their most directly comparable GAAP measures are provided. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon in evaluating the financial condition, results of operations or future prospects of the Company.

The following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results:

 

•

Development Completion is a property in development that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) the property features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iii) three years have passed since the start of construction.  Once deemed complete, the property is termed a Retail Operating Property the following calendar year.

 

•

Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio is defined as Operating EBITDAre divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders.

 

•

Nareit EBITDAre is a measure of REIT performance, which the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit”) defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding (i) interest expense, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) gains on sales of real estate, (v) impairments of real estate, and (vi) adjustments to reflect the Company’s share of unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures.

 

•

Nareit Funds from Operations (“Nareit FFO”) is a commonly used measure of REIT performance, which Nareit defines as net income, computed in accordance with GAAP, excluding gains on sales and impairments of real estate, net of tax, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. We compute Nareit FFO for all periods presented in accordance with Nareit’s definition.

Companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. Since Nareit FFO excludes depreciation and amortization and gains on sale and impairments of real estate, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in percent leased, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. This provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with GAAP. Thus, Nareit FFO is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP; and, therefore, should not be considered a substitute measure of cash flows from operations. We provide a reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to Common Stockholders to Nareit FFO.

 

•

Net Operating Income (“NOI”) is the sum of base rent, percentage rent, recoveries from tenants, other lease income, and other property income, less operating and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes, ground rent, and uncollectible lease income. NOI excludes straight-line rental income and expense, above and below market rent and ground rent amortization, tenant lease inducement amortization, and other fees. We also provide disclosure of NOI excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses.

 

•

Non-Same Property is any property, during either calendar year period being compared, that was acquired, sold, a Property in Development, a Development Completion, or a property under, or being positioned for, significant redevelopment that distorts comparability between periods.  Non-retail properties and corporate activities, including the captive insurance program, are part of Non-Same Property.

 

•

Operating EBITDAre begins with the Nareit EBITDAre and excludes certain non-cash components of earnings derived from above and below market rent amortization and straight-line rents. We provide a reconciliation of Net Income to Nareit EBITDAre to Operating EBITDAre.

6

 

 

•

Pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our economic share (based on our ownership interest) in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships.

We provide Pro-rata financial information because we believe it assists investors and analysts in estimating our economic interest in our consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships, when read in conjunction with the Company’s reported results under GAAP.  We believe presenting our Pro-rata share of assets, liabilities, operating results, and other metrics, along with certain other non-GAAP measures, makes comparisons of other REITs’ operating results to ours more meaningful.  The Pro-rata information provided is not, nor is it intended to be, presented in accordance with GAAP.  The Pro-rata supplemental details of assets and liabilities and supplemental details of operations reflect our proportionate economic ownership of the assets, liabilities, and operating results of the properties in our portfolio

The Pro-rata information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts and is intended to more accurately reflect our proportionate economic interest in the assets, liabilities, and operating results of properties in our portfolio.  We do not control the unconsolidated investment partnerships, and the Pro-rata presentations of the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses do not represent our legal claim to such items.  The partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the operating agreements, which generally provide for such allocations according to their invested capital.  Our share of invested capital establishes the ownership interests we use to prepare our Pro-rata share.

The presentation of Pro-rata information has limitations which include, but are not limited to, the following:

 

o

The amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses; and

 

o

Other companies in our industry may calculate their Pro-rata interest differently, limiting the comparability of Pro-rata information.

Because of these limitations, the Pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under GAAP.  We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP financial statements, using the Pro-rata information as a supplement.

 

•

Property In Development includes properties in various stages of ground-up development.

 

•

Property In Redevelopment includes Retail Operating Properties under redevelopment or being positioned for redevelopment.  Unless otherwise indicated, a Property in Redevelopment is included in the Same Property pool.

 

•

Retail Operating Property is any retail property not termed a Property in Development. A retail property is any property where the majority of the income is generated from retail uses.

 

•

Same Property is a Retail Operating Property that was owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared. This term excludes Properties in Development, prior year Development Completions, and Non-Same Properties.  Properties in Redevelopment are included unless otherwise indicated.

 

7

