Item 1. Business
Robert Half International Inc. (the “Company”) provides specialized staffing and risk consulting services through such divisions as Accountemps®, Robert Half® Finance & Accounting, OfficeTeam®, Robert Half® Technology, Robert Half® Management Resources, Robert Half® Legal, The Creative Group®, and Protiviti®. The Company, through its Accountemps, Robert Half Finance & Accounting, and Robert Half Management Resources divisions, is the world’s largest specialized provider of temporary, full-time, and project professionals in the fields of accounting and finance. OfficeTeam specializes in highly skilled temporary administrative support personnel. Robert Half Technology provides information technology professionals. Robert Half Legal provides temporary, project, and full-time staffing of attorneys and specialized support personnel within law firms and corporate legal departments. The Creative Group provides project staffing in the digital, marketing, and creative fields. Protiviti, which began operations in 2002, is a global business consulting and internal audit firm. Protiviti, which primarily employs professionals specializing in risk, advisory and transactional services, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The Company’s business was originally founded in 1948. Prior to 1986, the Company was primarily a franchisor, under the names Accountemps and Robert Half (now called Robert Half Finance & Accounting), of offices providing temporary and full-time professionals in the fields of accounting and finance. Beginning in 1986, the Company and its current management embarked on a strategy of acquiring franchised locations. All of the franchises have been acquired. The Company believes that direct ownership of offices allows it to better monitor and protect the image of its trade names, promotes a more consistent and higher level of quality and service throughout its network of offices and improves profitability by centralizing many of its administrative functions. Since 1986, the Company has significantly expanded operations at many of the acquired locations, opened many new locations and acquired other local or regional providers of specialized temporary service personnel. The Company has also expanded the scope of its services by launching the new product lines OfficeTeam, Robert Half Technology, Robert Half Management Resources, Robert Half Legal and The Creative Group.
In 2002, the Company hired more than 700 professionals who had been affiliated with the internal audit and business and technology risk consulting practice of Arthur Andersen LLP, including more than 50 individuals who had been partners of that firm. These professionals formed the base of the Company’s Protiviti Inc. subsidiary. Protiviti has enabled the Company to enter the market for business consulting and internal audit services, which market the Company believes offers synergies with its traditional lines of business.
Accountemps
The Accountemps temporary services division offers customers a reliable and economical means of dealing with uneven or peak workloads for accounting, finance, and bookkeeping personnel caused by such predictable events as vacations, taking inventories, tax work, month-end activities and special projects, and such unpredictable events as illness and emergencies. Businesses view the use of temporary employees as a means of controlling personnel costs and converting such costs from fixed to variable. The cost and inconvenience to clients of hiring and firing regular employees are eliminated by the use of Accountemps temporaries. The temporary workers are employees of Accountemps and are paid by Accountemps. The customer pays a fixed rate only for hours worked.
Accountemps clients may fill their regular employment needs by using an Accountemps employee on a trial basis and, if so desired, “converting” the temporary position to a regular position. The client typically pays a one-time fee for such conversions.
OfficeTeam
The Company’s OfficeTeam division, which commenced operations in 1991, places temporary and full-time office and administrative personnel, ranging from executive and administrative assistants to receptionists and customer service representatives. OfficeTeam operates in much the same fashion as the Accountemps division.
Robert Half Finance & Accounting
Established in 1948, the Company’s first division and specialized recruitment pioneer Robert Half Finance & Accounting specializes in the placement of full-time accounting, financial, tax and accounting operations personnel. Fees for successful placements are paid only by the employer and are generally a percentage of the new employee’s annual compensation. No fee for placement services is charged to employment candidates.
1

Robert Half Technology
The Company’s Robert Half Technology division, which commenced operations in 1994, specializes in providing information technology contract consultants, placing full-time employees, and offering managed services in areas ranging from multiple platform systems integration to end-user technical and desktop support, including specialists in application development (including mobile, cloud and enterprise applications), networking, systems integration and deployment, database design and administration, and security and business continuity.
Robert Half Legal
Since 1992, the Company has been placing temporary and full-time employees in attorney, paralegal, legal administrative and legal secretarial positions through its Robert Half Legal division. The legal profession’s requirements (the need for confidentiality, accuracy and reliability, a strong drive toward cost-effectiveness, and frequent peak caseload periods) are similar to the demands of the clients of the Accountemps division. Robert Half Legal offers a full suite of legal staffing and consulting services to help organizations manage constantly changing workloads and access expertise across in-demand legal practice areas.
Robert Half Management Resources
The Company’s Robert Half Management Resources division, which commenced operations in 1997, specializes in providing senior level project professionals in the accounting and finance fields, including chief financial officers, controllers, senior financial analysts, internal auditors, and business systems analysts for such tasks as financial systems conversions, expansion into new markets, business process reengineering, business systems performance improvement, and post-merger financial consolidation.
The Creative Group
The Creative Group division commenced operations in 1999 and specializes in identifying for its clients creative professionals in the areas of interactive media, design, marketing, advertising and public relations. The division places freelance and project consultants in a variety of positions such as creative directors, graphics designers, web content developers, web designers, media buyers, brand managers, and public relations specialists.
Protiviti
Protiviti is a global consulting firm that delivers an expanding set of services across its defined solution offerings of Business Performance Improvement, Internal Audit, Managed Solutions, Risk and Compliance and Technology Consulting. Protiviti and its independently owned member firms works collaboratively with its clients in over 25 countries to help them achieve their business objectives and delivers confidence in an ever-evolving dynamic business world. Clients range from high-growth, pre-public/transactional established start-ups to the largest global companies, across seven focused industries.
Marketing and Recruiting
The Company markets its staffing services to clients and employment candidates via both national and local advertising activities, including radio, digital advertising, job boards, alliance partners, and events. The Company also markets its services via its website, blog and mobile app as well as through targeted online tactics, email, and social media. Direct marketing to customers is a significant portion of the Company’s total marketing efforts. Joint marketing arrangements have been entered into with major software manufacturers and typically provide for the development of proprietary skills tests, cooperative advertising, joint campaigns, and similar promotional activities. The Company also actively seeks endorsements and affiliations with professional organizations in the accounting and finance, technology, legal, and creative and marketing fields. The Company also conducts public relations activities designed to enhance public recognition of the Company and its services. Central to the public relations activities is research-based content, targeted media relations and thought leadership. Robert Half employees are encouraged to be active in civic organizations and industry trade groups in their local communities.
Protiviti markets its business and technology consulting and internal audit services to a variety of global clients in a range of industries. Industry and competency teams conduct targeted marketing efforts, locally, nationally and globally, including digital advertising, production of thought leadership, social media and live and virtual speaking events. Protiviti regularly conducts a variety of programs to share its insights with clients on current topics such as risk, technology, corporate governance, and industry challenges. It conducts public relations activities, such as distributing press releases, white papers, case studies and newsletters, designed to enhance recognition for the Protiviti brand, establish its expertise in key issues
2

surrounding its businesses and promote its services. Protiviti plans to expand both the services and value-added content on the Protiviti.com website and increase traffic through targeted digital advertising. Employees are encouraged to be active in relevant social media communities, civic organizations and industry trade groups.
The Company and its subsidiaries own many trademarks, service marks and tradenames, including the Robert Half® Finance & Accounting, Accountemps®, OfficeTeam®, Robert Half® Technology, Robert Half® Management Resources, Robert Half® Legal, The Creative Group® and Protiviti® marks, which are registered in the United States and in a number of foreign countries.
Organization
Management of the Company’s staffing operations is coordinated from its headquarters facilities in Menlo Park and San Ramon, California. The Company’s headquarters provides support and centralized services to its offices in the administrative, marketing, public relations, accounting, information technology, training and legal areas, particularly as it relates to the standardization of the operating procedures of its offices. As of December 31, 2020, the Company conducted its staffing services operations through 326 offices in 42 states, the District of Columbia and 17 foreign countries. Office managers are responsible for most activities of their offices, including sales, local advertising and marketing and recruitment.
The day-to-day operations of Protiviti are managed by a chief executive officer and a senior management team with operational and administrative support provided by individuals located in San Ramon and Menlo Park, California. As of December 31, 2020, Protiviti had 62 offices in 23 states and 12 foreign countries.
Competition
The Company’s staffing services face competition in attracting clients as well as skilled specialized employment candidates. The staffing business is highly competitive, with a number of firms offering services similar to those provided by the Company on a national, regional or local basis. In many areas the local companies are the strongest competitors. The most significant competitive factors in the staffing business are price and the reliability of service, both of which are often a function of the availability and quality of personnel. The Company believes it derives a competitive advantage from its long experience with and commitment to the specialized employment market, its national presence, its investments in technology, and its various marketing activities.
Protiviti faces competition in its efforts to attract clients, expand relationships with existing clients and win proposal presentations. The global professional service business is highly competitive with a dynamic regulatory environment, disruptive new technologies, security and privacy concerns and high demand for skilled professionals all driving significant opportunities. The principal competitors of Protiviti remain the “big four” accounting firms. Significant competitive factors include reputation, technology, tools, project methodologies, price of services and depth of skills of personnel. Protiviti believes its competitive strengths lie in the collaborative approach it takes to working with clients which drive knowledge transfer, understanding of client issues and value creation. This is coupled with a “configure-to-fit” resourcing model to create blended teams of full-time Protiviti professionals and engagement professionals from Robert Half’s network of specialized talent to precisely match expertise, approach and people to the changing global needs of clients on consulting and managed solutions projects.
Human Capital Management

Employees. The Company has approximately 13,000 full-time internal staff, including approximately 5,000 employees engaged directly in Protiviti operations. In addition, the Company placed approximately 150,500 engagement professionals on assignments with clients during 2020. In 2019, the Company had approximately 16,000 full-time internal staff, including approximately 4,500 employees engaged directly in Protiviti operations. In 2019, the Company placed approximately 205,600 engagement professionals on assignments with clients. The substantial majority of engagement professionals placed on assignment by the Company are the Company’s legal employees while they are working on assignments. The Company pays the related costs of employment, such as workers’ compensation insurance, state and federal unemployment taxes, social security and certain fringe benefits. The Company provides access to voluntary health insurance coverage to interested employees.

3

Diversity and Inclusion. The Company believes that its rich culture of inclusion and diversity enables it to create, develop and fully leverage the strengths of its workforce to exceed customer expectations and meet its growth objectives. In 2020, Robert Half President and CEO M. Keith Waddell, and President and CEO of Staffing Services Paul F. Gentzkow, joined President and CEO of Protiviti Joe Tarantino, along with more than 1,400 company leaders who have signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion ("D&I") pledge, making a commitment to advance inclusion and diversity in the workplace and community.
Current key initiatives include a company-wide D&I education series, the creation of Communities of Inclusion ("COI")/Employee Network Groups ("ENG") as business resources groups, and a focus on external strategic partnerships to increase engagement and representation of underrepresented communities. The Company places a high value on inclusion, engaging employees in its COI/ENG programs staffed by employees with diverse backgrounds, experiences, or characteristics who share a common interest in professional development, improving corporate culture, and delivering sustained business results. In 2020, Robert Half launched three COI chapters: Black, Asian, and Hispanic/Latinx, with LGBT+ and Women set to launch in the coming year. Protiviti has a number of Employee Network Groups that have existed for several years. The Company uses these groups to serve as a source of inclusion and to support the acquisition of diverse talent internally and externally. Each COI/ENG is sponsored and supported by senior leaders across the enterprise.
Across both Robert Half and Protiviti, as of June 30, 2020, approximately 55% of the Company's global workforce was female and 46% of the Company’s employees in managerial and leadership roles were female. As of June 30, 2020, approximately 30% of the Company's US workforce were from underrepresented groups.

Employee Engagement. As part of the Robert Half employee voice initiative to provide its employees with feedback opportunities, in 2020, the Company conducted frequent surveys to understand employee needs and support employees both prior to and, more importantly, during the pandemic. The survey results were analyzed by an independent third-party and then reviewed by the executive officers. The results of this engagement survey were shared with individual managers, who were then tasked with taking action based on their employees’ confidential feedback (both quantitative and qualitative). By paying close attention to the results both at an aggregate enterprise level as well as at a department/business/workgroup level, the Company has been able to enhance its culture of rewards and recognition, drive efforts to promote inclusion and diversity, increase communication in support of employee well-being and modernize its approach to foster a culture of continuous learning and feedback. Protiviti leverages surveys in the United States and internationally, including the Great Place to Work survey.

Learning and Development. The Company emphasizes employee development and training as a priority for the organization. Training and development are key elements to overall retention, engagement, and employee experience strategy. Our strategy is designed to empower employees to reach their full potential, and we provide a wide range of development programs, opportunities, and resources needed to be successful. The Company has specialized programs for all audiences, new hires, tenured, and leadership. We provide a variety of learning channels including instructor-led, facilitated custom workshops, leader-led, cohort and mentorships, self-paced, e-learning and a catalog of vendor-provided courses, videos, resources, and books. The Company is committed to the organization's overall health and providing career progression by providing individual development, readiness, and transition plans as a part of its talent review and succession planning process.

Compensation, Benefits and Well-being. The Company offers fair, competitive compensation and benefits that support its employees’ overall well-being. To ensure alignment with management's short- and long-term objectives, the Company's compensation programs for all employees include competitive base pay and short-term and long-term incentives for some of its employees. The Company offers a wide array of benefits including comprehensive health and welfare insurance, generous time-off and leave, and retirement and financial support. The Company provides emotional well-being services through its Employee Assistance Program as well as a number of perks and other convenience benefits.

In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the enterprise implemented significant changes. We provided all employees with the unconditional opportunity to work from home and the vast majority did so. We also implemented additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work. The Company also ensured employees received unlimited paid time off to care for themselves or their families who were impacted by COVID-19, whether due to illness, quarantine, or lack of childcare resources.
Other Information
The Company is not dependent upon a single customer or a limited number of customers. The Company’s staffing services operations are generally more active in the first and fourth quarters of a calendar year. Protiviti is generally more active in the third and fourth quarters of a calendar year. Order backlog is not a material aspect of the Company’s staffing services business. Backlog is of greater importance to Protiviti and is typically realized within a twelve-month period. An insignificant portion of the Company’s business is subject to government contracts.
4

Available Information
The Company’s Internet address is www.roberthalf.com. The Company makes available, free of charge, through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, proxy statements for its annual meetings of stockholders, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as is reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on the Company’s website are its Corporate Governance Guidelines, its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and the charters for its Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, each of which is available in print to any stockholder who makes a request to Robert Half International Inc., 2884 Sand Hill Road, Suite 200, Menlo Park, CA 94025, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the Code of Ethics required by Item 406 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-K. The Company intends to satisfy any disclosure obligations under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment or waiver relating to its Code of Business Conduct and Ethics by posting such information on its website.