
Item 1.	Business
General

Rollins, Inc. (the “Company”) is an international service company with headquarters located in Atlanta, Georgia, providing pest and termite control services through its wholly-owned subsidiaries and independent franchises to both residential and commercial customers in the United States, Canada, Australia, Europe, and Asia with international franchises in Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia. Our pest and termite control services are performed through a contract that specifies the pricing arrangement with the customer.

 

For a listing of the Company’s Subsidiaries, see Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K).

The Company has one reportable segment, its pest and termite control business. Revenue, operating profit and identifiable assets for this segment, which includes the United States, Canada, Central and South America, the Caribbean,  Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Africa, and Australia are included in Item 8 of this document, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” beginning on page 26. The Company’s results of operations and its financial condition are not reliant upon any single customer or a few customers or the Company’s foreign operations.

Three-for-Two Stock Split

All share and per share data presented have been adjusted to account for the three-for-two stock split effective December 10, 2020.

Common Stock Repurchase Program

At the July 24, 2012 Quarterly Board of Directors’ meeting, the Board authorized the purchase of 16.9 million shares of the Company’s common stock. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not repurchase shares on the open market. In total, there are 11.4 million additional shares authorized to be repurchased under prior Board approval. The repurchase program does not have an expiration date.

Franchising Programs

Orkin Franchises

 

The Company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Orkin Systems, LLC (“Orkin Systems”), began its domestic Orkin franchise program in the U.S. in 1994, and established its first international franchise in 2000. It has since expanded to Central and South America, the Caribbean, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. The Company continues to expand its growth through the franchise program of its Orkin brand. This program is primarily used in smaller markets where it is currently not economically efficient to establish and operate a company-owned Orkin branch. Domestic Orkin franchises are subject to a contractual buyback provision at Orkin System’s option with a pre-determined purchase price using a formula applied to revenues of the franchise. International Orkin franchise agreements also contain an optional buyback provision, but it is subject to the franchisee’s renewal option.

 	 	At December 31,	 
Orkin franchises	 	2020	 	 	2019	 	 	2018	 
Domestic franchises	 	 	49	 	 	 	50	 	 	 	47	 
International franchises	 	 	94	 	 	 	97	 	 	 	86	 
Total Orkin franchises	 	 	143	 	 	 	147	 	 	 	133	 
3
 
Critter Control Franchises

 

The Company expands its animal control growth through the franchise program of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Critter Control, Inc. (“Critter Control”). The Company has purchased several Critter Control locations from its franchise owners while renaming and converting several previous Trutech, LLC locations to Critter Control locations. The majority of Critter Control’s locations are franchised. Critter Control franchises are subject to a contractual buyback provision at Critter Control’s option with a pre-determined purchase price using a formula applied to revenues of the franchise.

 	 	At December 31,	 
Critter Control franchises	 	2020	 	 	2019	 	 	2018	 
Domestic franchises	 	 	79	 	 	 	84	 	 	 	80	 
International franchises	 	 	0	 	 	 	1	 	 	 	1	 
Total Critter Control franchises	 	 	79	 	 	 	85	 	 	 	81	 
Australia Franchises

 

The Company has Australian franchises through Rollins Australia Pty Ltds wholly-owned subsidiaries, Scientific Pest Management (Australia/Pacific) Pty Ltd (“Scientific Pest Management”) and Murray Rollins Pty Ltd (“Murray Pest Control”).

 	 	At December 31,	 
Australia franchises	 	2020	 	 	2019	 	 	2018	 
Total Australia franchises	 	 	9	 	 	 	10	 	 	 	10	 
 

Seasonality

The business of the Company is affected by the seasonal nature of the Company’s pest and termite control services. The increase in pest presence and activity, as well as the metamorphosis of termites in the spring and summer (the occurrence of which is determined by the timing of the change in seasons), has historically resulted in an increase in the revenue of the Company’s pest and termite control operations during such periods as evidenced by the following chart.

 	 	 	 
 	 	Total Net Revenues	 
(in thousands)	 	2020	 	 	2019	 	 	2018	 
First quarter	 	$	487,901	 	 	$	429,069	 	 	$	408,742	 
Second quarter	 	 	553,329	 	 	 	523,957	 	 	 	480,461	 
Third quarter	 	 	583,698	 	 	 	556,466	 	 	 	487,739	 
Fourth quarter	 	 	536,292	 	 	 	505,985	 	 	 	444,623	 
Years ended December 31,	 	$	2,161,220	 	 	$	2,015,477	 	 	$	1,821,565	 
Materials and Supplies

The Company has relationships with a national pest control product distributor and other suppliers for pest and termite control treatment products. The Company maintains a sufficient level of chemicals, materials and other supplies to fulfill its immediate servicing needs and to alleviate any potential short-term shortage in availability from its national network of suppliers. Additionally, the Company procured adequate supplies of gloves, masks, sanitization chemicals and other personal protective equipment that were in high demand during the pandemic.

4
 
Competition

The Company believes that, through its wholly-owned subsidiaries Orkin, LLC (“Orkin”), Western Industries-North, LLC (“Western Pest Services”), The Industrial Fumigant Company, LLC (“IFC”), HomeTeam Pest Defense, Inc. (“HomeTeam”), Crane Acquisition, Inc. (“Crane Pest Control”), Waltham Services, LLC (“Waltham”), Trutech, LLC (“Trutech”) PermaTreat Pest Control Company, Inc. (“Permatreat”), Critter Control, Northwest Exterminating Co., LLC (“Northwest”), Okolona Pest Control, Inc. (“OPC”), Clark Pest Control of Stockton, Inc. (“Clark Pest Control”), McCall Service NW, LLC (“McCall”), Orkin Canada Corporation (“Orkin Canada”), Critter Control British Columbia, Inc. (“Critter Control Canada”), Allpest Pest Control (“Allpest”), Murray Pest Control, Scientific Pest Management, Statewide Rollins Pty Ltd (“Statewide”), Adams pest Control Pty Ltd (“Adams”), Safeguard Pest Control and Environmental Services Limited (“Safeguard”), AMES Group Limited (“AMES”), Guardian Pest Control Ltd (“Guardian”), Albany Environmental Services Ltd (“Albany”), Van Vynck Environmental Services Ltd (“Van Vynck”), and Aardwolf Pestkare (Singapore) Pte Ltd (“Aardwolf”), it competes favorably with competitors as the world’s largest pest and termite control company. The Company’s major competitors include Terminix, Ecolab, Rentokil and Anticimex.

The principal methods of competition in the Company’s pest and termite control markets are quality of service, customer proximity, guarantee terms, reputation for safety, technical proficiency, and price.

Research and Development

Expenditures by the Company on research activities relating to the development of new products or services are not significant. Some of the new and improved service methods and products are researched, developed and produced by unaffiliated universities and companies. Also, a portion of these methods and products are produced to the specifications provided by the Company.

The Company maintains a close relationship with several universities for research and validation of treatment procedures and material selection.

The Company conducts tests of new products with the specific manufacturers of such products.  The Company also works closely with leading scientists, educators, industry consultants and suppliers to improve service protocols and materials.

Environmental and Regulatory Considerations 

The Company’s business is subject to various legislative and regulatory enactments including, but not limited to, environmental laws, antitrust laws, employment laws (including wage and hour laws, payroll taxes and anti-discrimination laws), immigration laws, motor vehicle laws and regulations, human health and safety laws, securities laws including, but not limited to, SEC regulations, and federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker safety and the pest and termite control industry. Compliance with these requirements may have a material effect on the Company’s capital expenditures, earnings, and competitive position.

Environmental, Health and Safety Matters

Specifically, our businesses are subject to various international, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding environmental, health and safety matters. Among other things, these laws regulate the emission or discharge of materials into the environment, govern the use, storage, treatment, disposal, transportation and management of hazardous substances and wastes and protect the health and safety of our employees. These laws also impose liability for the costs of investigating and remediating, and damages resulting from, present and past releases of hazardous substances, including releases by prior owners or operators of sites we currently own or operate. Compliance with environmental, health and safety laws increases our operating costs, limits or restricts the services we provide and subjects us to the possibility of regulatory or private actions or proceedings.

 

Consumer Protection, Privacy and Solicitation Matters

Additionally, we are subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations designed to protect consumers generally, including laws governing lending, debt collection and consumer finance, consumer privacy and fraud, the collection and use of consumer data, telemarketing and other forms of solicitation. The telemarketing rules adopted by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to the Federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 and the Federal Telemarketing Sales Rule issued by the Federal Trade Commission govern our telephone sales practices. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates our email solicitations and the Consumer Review Fairness Act regulates consumer opinions on social media regarding our products and services. The California Consumer Privacy Act provides consumers the right to know what personal data we collect, how it is used, and the right to access, delete and opt out of the sale of their personal information to third parties. If we were to fail to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or damages, be involved in lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities, suffer losses to our reputation and our business or suffer the loss of licenses or penalties that may affect how the business is operated, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

5
 
Franchise Matters

 

Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various international, federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulations governing franchise sales, marketing and licensing and franchise trade practices generally, including applicable rules and regulations of the Federal Trade Commission. These laws and regulations generally require disclosure of business information in connection with the sale and licensing of our franchises. Certain state regulations also affect our ability as a franchisor, to revoke or refuse to renew a franchise. From time to time, we and one or more franchisees have, and may in the future become, involved in a dispute regarding the franchise relationship, including payment of royalties or fees, location of branches, advertising, purchase of products by franchisees, non-competition covenants, compliance with our standards or franchise renewal criteria. Any such franchise dispute could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.

Human Capital 

We believe one of the largest contributors to our Company’s success is the quality of our people. Attracting, developing and retaining high-quality talent is the primary objective of our human capital management. The development and retention of high-quality talent leads to a better customer experience and better customer retention. We develop and engage our people through our best-in-class training at all levels of our organization.

As of December 31, 2020, the Company had 15,616 employees. Approximately 14,200 of our employees were located in the United States, with approximately 13,500 employees at U.S. branch offices. Of the U.S. employees, less than 5% are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.

At December 31,	 	2020	 	 	2019	 	 	2018	 
Employees	 	 	15,616	 	 	 	14,952	 	 	 	13,734	 
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

We make it a priority to promote and create a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that results in higher levels of satisfaction and engagement, stronger staff retention, higher productivity, and a heightened sense of belonging. Our mission is to have a culture of inclusion, where all individuals feel respected, are treated fairly, with an equitable opportunity to excel. To reinforce our mission, we launched a new global Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) initiative in 2020. A key component of this initiative is our newly-formed Inclusion Advisory Council made up of employees from several different brands across the United States and Canada. Our council is currently focused on evaluating company policies, increasing employee awareness, and conducting employee listening sessions. Our goal is to create organizational change focusing on inclusion for all employees.

Health and Safety

We are committed to the health and safety of our employees and trade customers. During fiscal 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Rollins quickly implemented our pre-established business continuity plans. When state and local shelter-in-place restrictions were put in place, we experienced a smooth transition to a work-from-home environment for administrative staff and we limited traffic in and out of our branch locations. Employees receive regular emails with updated CDC guidelines, contact information for our Employee Assistance Program, and good news stories from various departments or branches to boost morale.

Community Involvement

We offer employees the opportunity to participate in various community outreach programs and believe that this commitment helps the Company to meet its goals of attracting, developing and retaining high-quality employees. We created Rollins United in 2019 to unify our brands’ philanthropic visions and consolidate our community outreach efforts. Our overarching goal is to create a significant impact in local communities over an extended period of time. The core mission of Rollins United is that everyone deserves a safe place to live, work, and play.

6
