ITEM 1.BUSINESS
Overview
Republic is one of the largest providers of environmental services in the United States, as measured by revenue. As of December 31, 2020, we operated facilities in 41 states through 345 collection operations, 220 transfer stations, 186 active landfills, 76 recycling processing centers, 6 treatment, recovery and disposal facilities, 9 salt water disposal wells, and 7 deep injection wells. We are engaged in 75 landfill gas-to-energy and renewable energy projects and had post-closure responsibility for 128 closed landfills. We were incorporated in Delaware in 1996.
We believe the total addressable environmental services market in which we operate generates approximately $87 billion of annual revenue, which includes the $67 billion U.S. recycling and solid waste industry and $20 billion of the broader environmental services industry. Within our recycling and solid waste business, we prioritize investments in market verticals with above average growth rates and higher return profiles. Environmental services remains fragmented which provides consolidation opportunities to drive scale. We believe we will be able to further expand our addressable market into other segments of the environmental services industry over time by leveraging our differentiated capabilities.
Our operations are national in scope, but the physical collection and recycling or disposal of material is very much a local business and the dynamics and opportunities differ in each of our markets. By combining local operating management with standardized business practices, we drive greater overall operating efficiency across the Company while maintaining day-to-day operating decisions at the local level, closest to the customer.
We believe that our products and services are valuable to our customers and essential for long-term sustainability. Our focus and commitment to sustainability allows us to attract and retain the best talent, win more customers, increase customer loyalty, and ultimately drive higher revenue and profits.
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a new strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted the global economy as well as certain aspects of our operations and performance. During this time, we continued to provide essential services to our customers while prioritizing the health and safety of our employees. In April 2020, we launched our Committed to Serve initiative to help our employees, customers and communities across the United States. The impact of COVID-19 on our business and associated costs are discussed in Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Foundational Elements
Our strategy is designed to generate profitable growth by sustainably managing our customers’ needs, and it is underpinned by three foundational elements – (1) our market position, (2) operating model, and (3) management of human capital through our people and talent agenda.
Market Position
Our goal is to develop the best vertically integrated market position to enable us to build density and improve returns. We strive to have a number one or number two market position in each of the markets we serve, or have a clear path on how we will achieve a leading market position over time. In situations where we cannot establish a leading market position, or where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we may decide to divest certain assets and reallocate resources to other markets.
We have a robust market planning process to identify opportunities to grow internally through capital investments and infrastructure development, and externally through acquisitions and public-private partnerships. Additionally, our market planning process allows us to analyze market conditions and proactively adjust to trends as they emerge, including the effects of demographic shifts, and changes in the market and the competitive landscape.
Internal Growth
•Volume Growth - We believe volumes are driven by population growth, household formation and new business formation. Volume growth through increases in our customer base and service offerings is the most capital efficient method to grow our business. We seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting recyclable and solid waste material under residential collection contracts with municipalities, exclusive franchise agreements, and small-container and large-container contracts. We also look to enter into long-term disposal and recycling processing contracts with
2
Table of Contents
municipalities and other third parties. By obtaining such long-term agreements, we can grow our contracted revenue base at a rate consistent with the underlying economic growth in these markets. In addition, by securing long-term agreements, we are better able to help ensure we earn an appropriate return on the capital deployed.
•Price Increases - We seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an appropriate return on our substantial investments in vehicles, equipment, landfills, transfer stations and recycling processing centers.
•Expansion of Recycling Capabilities - Based on the most recent U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) data, we believe approximately 32% of municipal solid waste is recycled and composted, and we expect that percentage to increase over the long-term. While there are examples of communities cancelling their recycling programs, many more communities remain committed to enhancing and expanding their recycling programs for their residents. We continue to focus on innovative material handling processes and programs to help our customers achieve their goals related to sustainability and environmentally sound waste practices while also generating an appropriate return. We will continue to look for opportunities to expand or enhance our recycling capabilities in markets where customers are demanding these services and demonstrating a willingness to pay, and we can earn an appropriate return on our investment.
•Infrastructure Development - We seek to identify opportunities to further our position as a vertically integrated service provider in markets where we are not fully integrated. Our goal is to create market-specific, vertically integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations, landfills and recycling processing centers. Where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling processing centers and landfills that would vertically integrate our waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. Additionally, we seek opportunities to expand and permit new airspace at our existing landfills in order to replace airspace consumed. Development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquisitions, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. We undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available.
External Growth
•Acquisitions and Public-Private Partnerships - Our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on acquiring privately held recycling and solid waste companies that complement our existing business platform. We believe our ability to successfully complete these acquisitions is enhanced by the challenges facing many privately-held companies, including increasing competition in the environmental services industry, increasing capital requirements due to changes in regulatory requirements and technology and the limited number of exit strategies for privately-held companies. We also evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly-owned companies.
We continue to invest in value-enhancing acquisitions in existing markets. Generally, we expect to maintain a steady pace of tuck-in acquisition investment of approximately $200 million annually. Given our free cash flow, availability under our credit facilities and our ability to access the public capital markets, we have the financial flexibility to make additional acquisitions that will complement our existing business platform, including larger acquisitions if the right opportunities present themselves.
We also focus on growth through public-private partnerships, which include the recycling and waste operations and facilities of municipal and other local governments. We believe over time we have an opportunity to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities and other local governments, as they seek to raise capital and/or reduce risk.
We realize synergies from consolidating businesses into our existing operations, whether through acquisitions or public-private partnerships, which allows us to reduce capital expenditures and expenses associated with truck routing, personnel, fleet maintenance, inventories and back-office administration.
Operating Model
Our operating model allows us to deliver a consistent, high-quality service to all our customers through the Republic Way: One Way. Everywhere. Every day. This approach of developing standardized processes with rigorous controls and tracking allows us to leverage our scale and deliver durable operational excellence. The Republic Way is the key to harnessing the best of what we do as operators and translating that across all facets of our business. Key elements of our operating model are our organizational structure, safety, fleet automation, compressed natural gas vehicles, fleet electrification and standardized maintenance.
Organizational Structure
A key enabler of the Republic Way operating model is our organizational structure that fosters a high performance culture by
3
Table of Contents
maintaining 360-degree accountability and full profit and loss responsibility with local management, supported by a functional structure to provide subject matter expertise. This structure allows us to take advantage of our scale by coordinating functionally across all of our markets, while empowering local management to respond to unique market dynamics.
Through this operating model, we have rolled out several productivity and cost control initiatives designed to deliver the best service possible to our customers in an efficient and environmentally sound way.
Safety
Republic is dedicated to the safety of our employees, customers and the communities we serve. We have a dedicated team of safety professionals at our corporate headquarters and in our field operations, the leader of which reports directly to our Chief Operating Officer. Due to the nature of our industry, we make safety a top priority and we recognize and reward employees for outstanding safety records. Over the past 10 years, our safety performance (based on OSHA recordable rates) has been 39% better than the industry average. Our Think, Choose, Live slogan encapsulates our everyday safety messaging to our employees to: Think about what you are doing, Choose the safe answer, and Live to go home to your family. With the phrase printed on numerous items, including hard hats and the equipment our employees touch, there are constant reminders for employees to go home in the same condition in which they came to work. Our goal is to ensure every one of our employees returns home safely each night.
Through our Safety Amplified program, we are providing even more tools and driving even greater awareness to help our teams better execute our safety standards. Regular training, multifaceted programs and strategic partnerships are key components to this program. It is simple by design and comprised of actions and activities that ensure safety is embedded in all we do. The program includes six initiatives to help us achieve our goal to have zero employee fatalities and reduce our OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate.
•Focus Together: This is our core safety program created for our frontline employees and designed to help eliminate six types of serious incidents. We recently extended the scope and reach of the program to include all employees across the company.
•Lead Together: This focus area brings best-in-class communication channels to our employees and includes advanced training techniques for all supervisors and managers.
•Partner Together: We're initiating more frequent and higher quality leadership visits and interaction with frontline employees. These visits are designed to pull together leaders from a variety of departments to support the divisions' safety goals.
•Celebrate Together: We take pride in recognizing employees who demonstrate a relentless commitment to safety. Employees with the best driving records are eligible for the industry’s most prestigious award, the National Waste & Recycling Association’s Driver of the Year. Republic drivers have won 70% of the Driver of the Year awards issued for the large truck category since 2009. In addition, our best drivers are recognized and rewarded with competing in our National Road-EO competition.
•Analyze Together: We analyze real-time data to make short- and long-term decisions and identify opportunities for improvement. Examples include analysis of roadway awareness training, data mapping and other employee protection and preparedness insights. With these analytics we will be able to make proactive safety decisions to generate better results.
•Innovate Together: We leverage the latest technologies, including automation, and take a data-driven approach to support our employees. These innovations include rear cameras, in-cab backing alarm systems and event recording systems throughout our fleet. We’re also working with equipment manufacturers to incorporate safety elements such as seat belt alarms, blind spot awareness, lane departure alarms and other potentially lifesaving equipment in our fleet.
We believe our Safety Amplified program will provide additional benefits for our Company and stakeholders including:
1.further strengthening relationships within the communities we service;
2.enhancing customer trust;
3.streamlining operational processes and increasing productivity;
4.delivering a reputational advantage, including positioning our Company as an employer-of-choice;
5.building and sustaining a safety culture in all areas of our business; and
6.contributing to employee engagement.
For more information regarding our safety performance, refer to our SASB report, which can be found at republicservices.com/
4
Table of Contents
sustainability. The information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other filing we make under the Exchange Act.
Fleet Automation
Approximately 77% of our residential routes have been converted to automated single-driver trucks. By converting our residential routes to automated service, we reduce labor costs, improve driver productivity, decrease emissions and create a safer work environment for our employees. Additionally, communities using automated vehicles have higher participation rates in recycling programs, thereby complementing our initiative to expand our recycling capabilities.
Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Vehicles
Approximately 21% of our fleet operates on natural gas. Approximately 13% of our replacement vehicle purchases during 2020 were CNG vehicles. We believe using CNG vehicles provides us a competitive advantage in communities with strict clean emission initiatives that focus on protecting the environment. Although upfront capital costs are higher, using CNG reduces our overall fleet operating costs through lower fuel expenses. As of December 31, 2020, we operated 38 CNG fueling stations.
Fleet Electrification
We are taking a leadership position in electric technology innovation for our fleet. This is a critical step toward reducing our environmental impact through lower fleet emissions, and we believe it will also improve our total cost of ownership while providing a competitive advantage in certain communities. We are partnering with multiple manufacturers to pilot electric-powered recycling and solid waste trucks. In addition, we are working with an electric battery manufacturer to retrofit diesel-powered trucks. We will apply what we learn from these programs to future electrification initiatives.
Standardized Maintenance
Based on an industry trade publication, we operate the fifth largest vocational fleet in the United States. As of December 31, 2020, our average fleet age in years, by line of business, was as follows:
Approximate Number of Vehicles		Approximate Average Age	Residential		6,900 			7.4	Small-container		4,900 			6.8	Large-container		4,500 			8.7	Total		16,300 			7.6 
OneFleet, our standardized vehicle maintenance program, enables us to use best practices for fleet management, truck care and maintenance. Through standardization of core functions, we believe we can minimize variability in our maintenance processes, resulting in higher vehicle quality and a lower environmental footprint, while extending the average service life of our fleet. We believe operating a more reliable, greener, safer and more efficient fleet will lower our operating costs. Additionally, our focus on preventative maintenance is improving the reliability of our fleet and enabling us to provide superior service to our customers, differentiating us from our competition. The entire fleet was certified under OneFleet in 2017.
Human Capital Management
Our management of human capital is embodied in our robust people and talent agenda, the goal of which is to maintain an environment that attracts and retains the best talent. Our 35,000 full-time employees continue to be a critical component in successfully executing our strategy and running our operations. We aspire to always be a company where the best people, with exceptional talents and diverse backgrounds, can thrive.
We are dedicated to driving our human capital objectives, which include (1) representing the diversity of the communities we serve and sustaining a safe and inclusive culture, (2) maintaining a highly engaged workforce, (3) developing our talent through learning and development experiences, and (4) offering compensation and benefits that attract and retain the best workforce. We review key progress metrics such as representation, engagement and turnover and regularly report on these metrics to our Board of Directors. This level of reporting holds all of our leaders accountable for advancing our human capital agenda.
Inclusion and Diversity
We are proud of the diversity of our front-line workforce, as it closely represents the demographics of the communities that we serve. We are relentless in our focus to improve representation of diverse groups across all levels of the Company. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity starts at the top of our organization, as outlined in our Mission of Supporting an Inclusive Culture (MOSAIC), established in 2013, and supported by the MOSAIC Council. The MOSAIC Council consists of leaders from across the Company who serve as ambassadors and thought partners for inclusion and diversity. This enables us to continue to develop new strategies and activities that are tied to the needs of our employees, customers and business with the
5
Table of Contents
goal of creating an even more inclusive work environment and diverse workforce.
We support inclusion and connectivity for our diverse populations through our business resource groups, including Women of Republic, VALOR (Veterans, Advocacy, Learning, Outreach and Recruiting), and the Black Employee Network (BEN) which we launched in early 2020. When the nation experienced an inflection point in race relations in 2020, we were well-positioned to address the call for social justice because it aligns with our value of respect and is reinforced by our existing commitment to advancing and supporting Black employees and Black communities.
We plan to launch a Hispanic business resource group in 2021 given the representation of LatinX employees in our workforce and the desire to create community amongst this valued population. While business resource groups help to drive a more inclusive environment for our diverse populations, we remain committed to driving inclusion for all of our employees.
In 2020, we also launched new programs and virtual events to advance awareness, education and connectivity across our workforce. Our “Let’s Talk” series has had over 3,000 virtual attendees, and is aimed to further our employees' understanding and empathy related to the topic of inclusion and diversity. We will continue to offer opportunities to help our employees conduct courageous and authentic conversations with one another, and we are committed to maintaining a work environment where people of all backgrounds feel valued and safe to share their perspectives.
Employee Engagement
We believe an engaged workforce is the greatest indicator of our success. We measure employee engagement through a third party survey, assessing employee sentiment on a variety of topics such as pride for the Company, job satisfaction and intention to stay. We have found that business units with a highly engaged workforce experience less turnover. We have also found that employees whose leaders are highly inclusive are more likely to speak up and share their perspective. In addition, we believe that engaged employees deliver better customer service and are more productive, which is directly tied to the success of our business. Our goal is to achieve and maintain employee engagement scores at or above 88% by 2030. Our employee engagement score was approximately 85% in 2020, which was consistent with our score in 2019. Approximately 92% of our employees participated in the engagement survey process in 2020, which represented an all-time-high participation rate, compared to approximately 84% in 2019. Employee engagement is a core part of our business strategy, which is why we compensate our General Managers on their employee engagement scores. This helps to ensure that our leaders are held accountable and rewarded for their efforts to drive a more engaged workforce.
Talent Development
We are committed to providing our employees with opportunities to develop throughout their careers. Our programs, including new hire onboarding and new leader assimilation, reinforce our Company values, expectations, and business approach. Targeted development experiences support the growth of people in key roles, including Driver Training, Technician Training, Supervisor Training, Sales Acceleration, General Manager Onboarding, and more. We believe these programs provide the fundamental skills necessary to be successful across roles.
Our leadership programs are a critical part of our human capital approach. We remain focused on attracting, hiring and developing early career leaders. Our rotational training and development programs, including our General Manager Acceleration Program and Leadership Trainee Program, help us attract, develop and advance a diverse and talented pool of individuals from across our organization. These programs are sponsored by our Executive Leadership team, which provides visibility and support for the career advancement of our high-potential talent across the organization. Since the beginning of these programs in 2017, over 40 leaders have graduated into leadership positions. We have found that these programs and experiences help ensure that the next generation of leaders build the necessary skills and experiences to be successful in their roles today, and in the future.
In 2020, seven of our leadership programs were converted to a virtual platform and delivered to over 2,550 employees. Providing development opportunities to distributed work forces requires innovative training methods, and we use mixed mediums to deliver trainings and instruction to our employees across the country. We remain committed to expanding employee participation in learning programs that are relevant to our business strategy and contribute to career advancement for our employees.
As we continue to grow as a Company, we are focused on developing a high performing workforce that is diverse, engaged, and well prepared to meet the needs of our customers and communities.
Rewards
We offer competitive compensation and benefits programs to our workforce to meet their personal and professional needs. Our commitment to paying market competitive wages enables us to attract and hire talent all across the country. Our approach to paying for performance supports our focus on pay equity. Our compensation packages are designed to provide employees with a stable and livable wage and growth potential. Our focus on wellness also provides our employees with access to preventative care, advice on financial planning and support for mental health, contributing to our efforts to provide a total rewards package
6
Table of Contents
that improves and enhances the lives of our employees.
Differentiating Capabilities
To effectively execute our strategic plan, we prioritize the development and investment in capabilities that will differentiate us in the marketplace. These capabilities include – (1) customer zeal, (2) sustainability, and (3) digital.
Customer Zeal
The goal of our customer zeal capability is to drive customer loyalty by offering differentiated products and services specifically designed to meet our customers’ needs. We believe this increases customer loyalty and willingness to pay for a higher value service.
To help our sales team identify specific customer needs and configure the right offering, we use a Priority Based Selling (PBS) technique and our Capture pricing tool nationwide.
•PBS enables us to identify and segment customers’ buying priorities, and attract customers that are willing to pay for enhanced offerings.
•Capture is a cloud-based pricing tool that creates a more professional sales experience, helps realize better pricing levels at the point of sale and provides enhanced controls over the price quoting process.
In response to our customers’ requests, we expanded our suite of products to include electronics recycling with BlueGuard® and universal recycling. For those services that we don’t provide, we fulfill demand through our alliance partnerships while maintaining the customer facing relationship.
To help ensure a consistent customer experience, we invested in our customer service capabilities and consolidated over 100 customer service locations into three Customer Resource Centers. These state-of-the-art centers and the technology deployed provide our customer service employees with the tools and capabilities they need to provide better levels of service though a variety of communication channels. These centers enhance the customer experience and provide us a platform to reduce the cost to service our customers.
To help ensure our efforts are making an impact and building customer loyalty, we solicit feedback from our customers, including Net Promoter Score℠, so that every General Manager receives recent, relevant feedback that allows him or her the ability to reach out to customers directly and address issues immediately.
Sustainability
The goal of our sustainability capability is to protect our Blue Planet® by providing our customers with environmentally responsible solutions that support a cleaner, safer, and healthier world. We are committed to focusing on the five elements of sustainability that underpin our business strategy: Safety, People, Operations, Materials Management and Communities. These elements continue to guide our short- and long-term sustainability and business goals.
Our Board of Directors’ Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee has oversight responsibility with respect to our sustainability performance, our corporate responsibilities, our role as a socially responsible organization and our enterprise risks, including cyber security, environmental, climate related risks and opportunities, and reputational risks. The Committee conducts a formal comprehensive review of the Company’s performance in these areas on an annual basis.

7
Table of Contents
Our Blue Planet: 2030 Goals
As we grow, so does our opportunity to make a meaningful positive impact on the environment and society. In 2019, we unveiled our ambitious 2030 goals, which are aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals(1). Each goal is aligned with the Company's five sustainability elements, and together they are designed to significantly benefit the environment and society while enhancing the foundation and profitability of our business for the long-term.
•Safety Amplified: Achieve zero annual employee fatalities and reduce OSHA Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) to 2.0 or less by 2030
•Engaged Workforce: Achieve and maintain employee engagement scores at or above 88% by 2030
•Climate Leadership: Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions 35% by 2030(2), aligned with SBTi(2)
•Circular Economy: Increase recovery of key materials by 40% on a combined basis by 2030(2)
•Regenerative Landfills: Increase biogas sent to beneficial reuse by 50% by 2030(2)
•Charitable Giving: Positively impact 20 million people by 2030
We believe that reducing our impact on the planet and improving the quality of life for its inhabitants are the right things to do, and they are also necessary actions to ensure a vibrant future for our organization.
Refer to our sustainability reports for updates regarding our progress towards these goals, which can be found at republicservices.com/sustainability. The information contained on our website shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other filing we make under the Exchange Act.





















(1) We have aligned our 2030 goals with the following UN Sustainable Development Goals: (8) Decent Work and Economic Growth, (11) Sustainable Cities and Communities, (12) Responsible Consumption and Production and (13) Climate Action. SBTi, or Science Based Targets initiative, is a collaboration between CDP, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), World Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).
(2) Data points used 2017 as the baseline year.
8
Table of Contents
Digital
The goal of our digital capability is to allow us to provide a consistent experience across our business while enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information.
We are responding to our customers' requests for options to do business with us digitally. By increasing the ease of use and functionality of our web-based market presence, we believe we enhance customer satisfaction, interaction, and connectivity while lowering our costs. These tools reinforce to our customers that they can rely on us to handle their recycling and waste service needs in a way that is easy and convenient for them.
•Our website and mobile app are online account management tools, allowing customers access to their accounts and our services.
•Our e-commerce sales channel allows customers to secure services on a real-time basis, provides capabilities to meet our customer's evolving buying preferences, and provides a lower cost sales channel.
We are also leveraging technology to digitally connect our customers, drivers, dispatchers, supervisors and trucks via our "RISE" dispatch platform and in-cab technology. We are utilizing an agile iterative approach to the development and multi-year roll-out of this technology to ensure durable adoption and an appropriate return on our investment. With the roll-out of this technology we will improve productivity through more real-time routing information and data visualization tools, increase customer connectivity and enable automated service verification communications, and enhance the employee experience by providing better tools and technology designed around employee interaction. In 2020, the rollout of the "RISE" dispatch platform was substantially completed. The rollout of the "RISE" in-cab technology enhancements will continue through 2021.
Cash Utilization Strategy
We take a consistent and balanced approach to capital allocation to drive long-term, sustainable value for our shareholders. The predictability of our free cash flows allows us to efficiently execute our capital allocation strategy, which includes investing in acquisitions and returning free cash flow to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We are committed to an efficient capital structure and maintaining our investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt, which was rated BBB+ by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services, BBB by Fitch Ratings, Inc. and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. as of December 31, 2020. Such ratings have allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access capital markets at competitive rates.
We manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light of our existing business and growth opportunities, and by closely managing our working capital, which consists primarily of accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued landfill and environmental costs.
Dividends
In July 2020, our Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.425 per share, which represents an increase of approximately 5% over the prior year. Over the last five years, our dividends have increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 7.2%. We expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends and may consider additional dividend increases if we believe they will enhance shareholder value.
Share Repurchases
In October 2017, our Board of Directors added $2.0 billion to the existing share repurchase authorization, which continued through December 31, 2020. In October 2020, our Board of Directors approved a $2.0 billion share repurchase authorization effective starting January 1, 2021 and extending through December 31, 2023. Share repurchases under the current program may be made through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. While the Board of Directors has approved the program, the timing of any purchases, the prices and the number of shares of common stock to be purchased will be determined by our management, at its discretion, and will depend upon market conditions and other factors. The share repurchase program may be extended, suspended or discontinued at any time. On a quarterly basis, our Board of Directors reviews the intrinsic value of our stock and the parameters around which we repurchase our shares.
Shareholder Value
We are committed to creating long-term shareholder value by generating consistent earnings and cash flow growth, while continually improving returns on invested capital. Our incentive compensation programs are aligned with these objectives at all levels of management. We have an active shareholder outreach program and routinely interact with shareholders on a number of matters, including governance, executive compensation, environmental and social matters.
9
Table of Contents
Management Team
We believe that building and blending a diverse team of strong industry veterans, along with talented people from other industries who bring unique skill sets, will contribute to what we call our Composite Strength. Composite Strength combines the vast, varied experience and capability of both strong environmental services industry veterans and talented people from other industries. Additionally, Composite Strength helps ensure the continuity of leadership and preservation of institutional knowledge, while also bringing in skills and new ideas from other companies outside of our industry - many of them from leading companies.
Donald W. Slager serves as the Company’s Chief Executive Officer, a position he has held since January 2011. He previously held the role of President and Chief Executive Officer from January 2011 to May 2019, and served as the Company’s President and Chief Operating Officer from the Allied Waste Industries, Inc. (Allied) acquisition in December 2008 until January 2011. Prior to the Allied acquisition, Mr. Slager worked for Allied from 1992 through 2008 and served in various management positions, including President and Chief Operating Officer from 2004 through 2008, and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer from 2003 to 2004. From 2001 to 2003, Mr. Slager served as Senior Vice President, Operations. Mr. Slager held various management positions at Allied from 1992 to 2003, and was previously General Manager at National Waste Services, where he served in various management positions since 1985. Mr. Slager has over 35 years of experience in the solid waste industry. Mr. Slager has been a member of our Board of Directors since June 24, 2010.
Brian Bales was named Executive Vice President, Chief Development Officer in February 2015. Mr. Bales has been with Republic for over 20 years, serving as Executive Vice President, Business Development from December 2008 to February 2015, and Vice President, Corporate Development from 1998 until the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Prior to his time at Republic, Mr. Bales held roles of increasing responsibility in finance and business development for Ryder System, Inc. from 1993 to 1998, and served as chief financial officer for EDIFEX & VTA Communications from 1988 through 1993. Prior to that, Mr. Bales was an accountant for PwC (formerly Price Waterhouse) from 1986 to 1988.
Brian DelGhiaccio was named Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in June 2020. Mr. DelGhiaccio has over 20 years of experience in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility. He was named Executive Vice President and Chief Transformation Officer in June 2019. Before that, Mr. DelGhiaccio served as Vice President, Investor Relations from 2012 to 2014, progressed to Senior Vice President, Finance from 2014 to 2017 and then to Senior Vice President, Business Transformation in 2017. Prior to his time at Republic Services, Mr. DelGhiaccio was a senior consultant with Arthur Andersen.
Catharine D. Ellingsen was named Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Corporate Secretary in June 2016. Ms. Ellingsen joined Allied as Corporate Counsel in August 2001 and has experience in a variety of roles of increasing responsibility. She was named Managing Corporate Counsel in January 2003, Director, Legal and Associate General Counsel in January 2005, and Vice President and Deputy General Counsel in June 2007. Ms. Ellingsen continued as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel at Republic following the Allied acquisition in December 2008. She was then named Senior Vice President, Human Resources in August 2011 and served in that position until June 2016. Before joining Allied, Ms. Ellingsen was an attorney at Steptoe & Johnson LLP from 1996 to 2001 and at Bryan Cave LLP from 1993 to 1996.
Jeffrey A. Hughes was named Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer in December 2008. Before that, Mr. Hughes served as Senior Vice President, Eastern Region Operations for Allied from 2004 until the Allied acquisition in December 2008. Mr. Hughes served as Assistant Vice President of Operations Support for Allied from 1999 to 2004 and as a District Manager for Allied from 1988 to 1999. Mr. Hughes has over 29 years of experience in the solid waste industry.
Tim Stuart was named Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer in May 2019. Prior to his current role, Mr. Stuart served as Executive Vice President, Operations from January 2016 to May 2019, where he was responsible for maximizing field performance, executing the operating plan, and achieving financial and operational results across the Company. Mr. Stuart previously served as the Company’s East Region President from September 2013 to January 2016. He joined Republic in April 2006 as Director of Operations, and has held a variety of roles with the Company, including Area President, Vice President of Customer Experience, and Region Vice President. Mr. Stuart has over 20 years of experience in the waste industry.
Jon Vander Ark was named President in May 2019, and is responsible for overseeing the Company’s operations, sales, marketing and business development. Mr. Vander Ark served as the Company’s Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer from January 2018 to May 2019. Prior to that, Mr. Vander Ark served as the Company’s Executive Vice President, Operations from March 2016 to January 2018. Mr. Vander Ark joined the Company in January 2013 as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer. Prior to joining the Company, he served as a partner at McKinsey & Company’s Detroit office, managing clients across a variety of industries, including transportation, logistics, manufacturing and consumer products.
Our local and area management teams have extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing environmental services companies and have substantial experience in their local geographic markets. This allows us to quickly respond to and
10
Table of Contents
meet our customers’ needs and stay in touch with local businesses and municipalities. We believe our strong area management teams allow us to effectively and efficiently drive our initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout the organization. Our area management teams and area presidents have extensive authority and responsibility over operations within their respective geographic markets. As a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating customers’ needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. We also seek to implement the best practices of our various business units throughout our operations to continue improving our operations and our operating margins.
Integrated Operations
We have a strong, national, vertically-integrated operating platform that allows us to compete more effectively and efficiently in the local markets in which we operate. Where appropriate, we seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling material streams from the point of collection through recycling processing or disposal. During the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 68% of the total solid waste volume we collected was disposed at landfills we own or operate (internalization). Our fully integrated markets generally have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our markets that are not fully integrated. Through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, vertically-integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection operations, transfer stations and landfills. We also operate recycling processing centers in markets where diversion of waste is a priority, customers are willing to pay for the service, and we can earn an appropriate return on our investment.
Our operations primarily consist of providing environmental services, including the collection and processing of recyclable materials, collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste, and other environmental solutions.
Collection Services
We provide residential, small-container, and large-container collection services through 345 collection operations. In 2020, approximately 75% of our total revenue was derived from our collection business, of which approximately 23% of our total revenue related to residential services, approximately 31% related to small-container services, and approximately 22% related to large-container services.
Our residential collection business involves the curbside collection of material for transport to transfer stations, or directly to landfills or recycling processing centers. We typically perform residential collection services under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure through competitive bids, which give us exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in the municipalities. These contracts usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. We also perform residential services on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. The fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on the market, collection frequency, type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. In general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the customers receiving the service.
In our small-container business, we supply our customers with recycling and waste containers of varying sizes. We typically perform small-container collection services under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined based on a number of factors including the market, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the material collected, transportation costs and the cost of processing or disposal. Our small-container services are typically offered to small business complexes, multi-family housing and strip malls, and include industries such as restaurants, retail, real-estate, and professional and other services.
Our large-container collection business includes both recurring and temporary customer relationships. For the recurring portion, we supply our customers with recycling and waste containers of varying sizes and rent compactors to large generators of material. We typically perform the collection services under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined based on a number of factors including the market, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the material collected, transportation costs and the cost of disposal. Our recurring large-container services are typically offered to larger facilities, hotels and office buildings, and include industries such as manufacturing, retail, hospitality, professional and other services.
For the temporary portion of our large-container collection business, the majority of the material relates to construction and demolition activities and is typically event-driven. We provide temporary collection services on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one-year or longer.
Transfer Services
We own or operate 220 transfer stations. Revenue at our transfer stations is primarily generated by charging tipping or disposal fees, which accounted for approximately 6% of our revenue during 2020. Our collection operations deposit material at these transfer stations, as do other private and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to disposal sites or recycling processing
11
Table of Contents
centers. Transfer stations provide collection operations with a cost effective means to consolidate material and reduce transportation costs while providing our landfills with an additional mechanism to extend their geographic reach.
When our own collection operations use our transfer stations, this improves internalization by allowing us to retain fees we would otherwise pay to third-party disposal sites. It also allows us to manage costs associated with material disposal because: (1) transfer trucks have larger capacities than collection trucks, allowing us to deliver more material to the landfill or processing center in each trip; (2) material is accumulated and compacted at strategically located transfer stations to increase efficiency; and (3) we can retain volume by managing the material to one of our own landfills or processing centers rather than to a competitor’s.
Landfill Services
We own or operate 186 active landfills. Our tipping fees charged to third parties accounted for approximately 13% of our revenue during 2020. As of December 31, 2020, we had 38,481 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of 5.0 billion in-place cubic yards. The in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. Some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils.
Most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and the likelihood of obtaining an expansion. To satisfy future disposal demand, we are seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain landfills; however, we cannot assure you that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted.
Republic is committed to harnessing landfill gas, the natural byproduct of decomposing waste, and converting it to energy. The use of landfill gas provides economic and environmental benefits, including reducing air pollution through the capture and use of methane. As of December 31, 2020, we operated 75 landfill gas and renewable energy projects. The majority of these projects were developed and are owned by a third party.
We also have responsibility for 128 closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure obligations.
Recycling Services
We own or operate 76 recycling processing centers. These centers generate revenue through the processing and sale of old corrugated containers (OCC), old newsprint (ONP), aluminum, glass and other materials, which accounted for approximately 3% of our revenue during 2020. Approximately 78% of our total recycling processing center volume is fiber based and includes OCC, ONP and other mixed paper. During 2020, we processed and sold 2.1 million tons, excluding glass and organics, from our recycling processing centers. An additional 2.2 million tons were collected by us and delivered to third parties.
Changing market demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. At current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change both annual revenue and operating income by approximately $12 million.
In certain instances, we issue recycling rebates to our municipal or large-container customers, which can be based on the price we receive upon the final sale of recycled commodities, a fixed contractual rate or other measures. We also receive rebates when we dispose of recycled commodities at third-party processing facilities.
As consumer demand for recycling services has increased, we have met that demand by integrating recycling components to each of our collection service offerings. Our goal is to provide a complete material stream management solution to our customers in a vertically integrated, environmentally sustainable way.
We continue to invest in proven technologies to control costs and to simplify and streamline recycling for our customers. For example, robotics and advanced sorting equipment, such as disk screens, magnets and optical sorters, identifies and separates different kinds of paper, metals, plastics and other materials to increase efficiency and maximize our recycling efforts.
Environmental Solutions
In addition to certain of our landfill disposal sites, we own or operate 6 treatment, recovery and disposal facilities, 9 salt water disposal wells and 7 deep injection wells. Environmental solutions volume is generated from the by-products of oil and natural gas exploration and production activity. Additionally, it is generated by the daily operations of industrial, petrochemical and refining facilities, including maintenance, plant turnarounds and capital projects. We provide these customers with environmentally responsible solutions to manage their waste needs including disposal of solid and liquid materials and in-plant services, such as transportation and logistics. In 2020, approximately 1% of our revenue was derived from environmental solutions.
12
Table of Contents
Other Services
Other revenue consists primarily of National Accounts revenue generated from nationwide or regional contracts in markets outside our operating areas where the associated material handling services are subcontracted to local operators. Consequently, substantially all of this revenue is offset with related subcontract costs, which are recorded in cost of operations.
Competition
We operate in a competitive industry. Competition in the environmental services industry comes from a few other large, national publicly-owned companies, several regional publicly- and privately-owned companies, and thousands of small privately-owned companies. In any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. In addition, we compete with municipalities that maintain material collection or disposal operations. These municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and greater opportunities for tax-exempt financing.
We compete for collection accounts primarily based on our product offering, quality of service and price. From time-to-time, our competitors reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. Our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by our competitors’ pricing policies. This may have an effect on our future revenue and profitability.
Seasonality and Severe Weather
Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to higher volumes of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of large-container and residential recycling and waste in certain regions of the country also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect this seasonality.
Our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather, which could increase the volume of material collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of material, reduce the volume of material delivered to our disposal sites or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. Our operations also can be favorably affected by severe weather, which could increase the volume of material in situations where we are able to charge for our additional services.
Regulation
Our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate, among other things, the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. Operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals generally are required for landfills and transfer stations, recycling centers, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other equipment and facilities that we own or operate. These permits are subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. Any revocation, modification or denial of permits could have a material adverse effect on us. Federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. These laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of violations, including criminal penalties. The U.S. EPA and various other federal, state and local authorities administer these regulations.
In order to comply with these regulations, we must incur substantial capital expenditures relating to our vehicles, landfills, transfer stations, and recycling processing centers, and in connection with our capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities. Compliance with existing and future legal and regulatory requirements, including changes relating to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly referred to as PFAS) and other chemicals of emerging concern, and limitations or bans on disposal of certain types of wastes or on the transportation of waste, could increase our costs to operate or require additional capital expenditures.
A decrease in regulation may lower barriers to entry for our competitors. Further, we compete with counties and municipalities that operate their own collection and disposal facilities, have the benefits of tax revenue, and greater opportunities for tax-exempt financing.
We strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits. However, from time to time we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities or in the need to expend funds for fines, penalties or settlements. We cannot assure you that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our strong regulatory compliance efforts. We have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs; however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves.
13
Table of Contents
Federal Regulation
The following summarizes the primary federal, environmental, and occupational health and safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and operations:
•The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills.
Subtitle D of RCRA establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. Regulations under Subtitle D currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards. All of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to RCRA and Subtitle D. These state permit programs may include landfill requirements that are more stringent than those of Subtitle D. Our failure to comply with any of these environmental requirements at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with securing new permits, reduced revenue from lost operational time, and increased third party disposal costs.
All of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed Subtitle D requirements, as applicable. Operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. Compliance with Subtitle D regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities.
•The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA). CERCLA, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. CERCLA may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site, and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. Under the authority of CERCLA and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. Liability under CERCLA is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only hazardous wastes, but also can be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 substances currently characterized by the EPA as hazardous, many of which are found in common household waste. The EPA may also designate additional substances as hazardous. Among other things, CERCLA authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment, or to order persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so themselves. In addition, the EPA has established a National Priorities List of sites at which hazardous substances have been, or are threatened to be, released and which require investigation or cleanup.
CERCLA liability is strict liability. It can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. Thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous substances, it is possible that hazardous substances have been deposited or released at landfills or other facilities that we presently or historically have owned or operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we have transported waste. Therefore, we could be liable under CERCLA for the cost of cleaning up, or protecting against the release of, such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. The costs of a CERCLA cleanup can be very expensive and can include the costs of disposing of hazardous substances at appropriately-licensed facilities. Given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, any such liability could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
•The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (the Clean Water Act). This act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the United States. Runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters through discrete conveyances must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, to reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. Storm water discharge regulations under the Clean Water Act require a permit for certain construction activities and for runoff from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. If a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly-owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment
14
Table of Contents
works. In addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the Clean Water Act or the Safe Drinking Water Act that could affect the manner in which our landfills monitor and control their waste management activities. Furthermore, if development at any of our facilities alters or affects wetlands, we may be required to secure permits before such development starts. In these situations, permitting agencies may require mitigation of wetland impacts.
•The Clean Air Act. The Clean Air Act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. In March 1996, the EPA promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems along with landfill gas control systems unless emissions are below established thresholds. These regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after May 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. The regulations apply whether the landfills are active or closed. The date by which each affected landfill must have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. On July 14, 2016, the EPA issued final amendments to its regulations that require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or after July 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. In a separate rule finalized that same day, the EPA issued updates to its 1996 Emission Guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. Both actions were part of the Obama Administration's Climate Action Plan - Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions. These and other efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. Many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. Certain of these state agencies are also implementing greenhouse gas control regulations that would also apply to landfill gas emissions. See Item 1A, Risk Factors – Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and other governmental regulations could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate, in this Form 10-K.
In addition, our vehicle fleet also may become subject to higher efficiency standards or other carbon-emission restrictions. Over the past decade, the EPA and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) have adopted regulations mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The regulations take the form of fuel economy standards. The EPA and the NHTSA have developed fuel economy standards in two vehicle categories: (1) passenger automobiles and light-duty trucks (collectively, light-duty vehicles); and (2) heavy-duty trucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers. We own and operate vehicles in both categories. For light-duty vehicles, in May 2010 the EPA and the NHTSA finalized fuel economy standards for model years 2012 through 2016. In October 2011, the EPA and the NHTSA initiated a second round of rulemaking for light-duty vehicles for model years 2017 through 2025. In 2018, the EPA and the NHTSA proposed to revise the light-duty vehicle standards for model years 2021 through 2024 to make them less stringent; final action on the proposal occurred in 2020 but has been challenged in court. In August 2011, the EPA and the NHTSA finalized standards for heavy-duty trucks, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers, for model years 2014 through 2018. On August 16, 2016, the EPA and the NHTSA jointly issued additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. In issuing the proposed fuel economy standards for heavy-duty trucks (including tractor trailers), the government estimated that the increased equipment cost would be recouped over a period of two years for a tractor/trailer combo, and over a period of 6 years for a garbage truck, and each vehicle would continue to save fuel costs over its operating life.
•The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSHA). This act authorizes the Occupational Safety and Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. A number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations.
State and Local Regulation
Each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. States also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. Some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. In addition, our operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring solid waste reduction and recycling programs. For example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. Additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, food waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been adopted in several states and are being considered in others. Legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also
15
Table of Contents
have been considered, or are under consideration by, the U.S. Congress and the EPA.
To construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. These permits and approvals may be burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens’ groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. Significant compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these processes. In connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to spend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity.
Other Regulations
Many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. These tanks can be subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal. In the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. If underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. We are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
With regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board and are regulated by the Federal Highway Administration, Office of Motor Carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. Various state and local government authorities have adopted, or are considering adopting, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdictional lines. In 1978, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste is unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. In 1994, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposes an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce and is unconstitutional. In 2007, however, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly-owned and publicly-operated waste facility. A number of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. Other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. These regulations may cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations and our financial results.
Liabilities Established for Landfill and Environmental Costs
We have established reserves for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. We periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of Subtitle D of RCRA, and we adjust our amortization rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. Based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate; however, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. Refer to the Contractual Obligations section of our Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K for further information.
Liability Insurance and Bonding
The nature of our business exposes us to the possible risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including damages to the environment, property, employees or the general public. We focus on operating safely and prudently, but occasionally we receive claims, alleging damages, negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work, which resulted in harm to the environment, property, employees or the general public. These liabilities can be significant. We also could be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. We maintain various policies of insurance that, subject to limitations, exclusions, or deductibles, provide coverage for these types of claims. While we believe the amount of insurance is appropriate for our type of business, we can neither assure you that such insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We also cannot assure you that we would continue to maintain the insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage cost prohibitive.
Accruals for deductibles are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not
16
Table of Contents
reported. Due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased deductible retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. As we assume more risk through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense.
In the normal course of business, we also purchase surety bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, financial assurance for closure and post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance.
Availability of Reports and Other Information
Our corporate website is republicservices.com. We make available on that website, free of charge, access to our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A, and amendments to those materials filed or furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the SEC. Our corporate website also contains our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Ethics and Conduct, Political Contributions Policy, Human Rights Policy, and Charters of the Audit Committee, Management Development and Compensation Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board of Directors. In addition, the SEC makes available at its website (sec.gov), free of charge, reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the SEC. Information on our website or the SEC website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K and applicable New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our Code of Ethics by posting this information on our website at republicservices.com.