Item 1.    Business
The Company
We are in business to protect, to solve critical packaging challenges, and to make our world better than we found it.
We are a leading global provider of packaging materials, equipment and services. Our portfolio of packaging solutions includes Cryovac® brand food packaging, Sealed Air® brand protective packaging, Autobag® brand automated systems, Bubble Wrap® brand packaging and SEE Automation solutions. Our packaging solutions are sold to an array of end markets including protein, foods, fluids, medical and life sciences, pet care, e-Commerce and logistics, and industrials. Our automated equipment, materials and services maximize food safety and security and product protection while minimizing waste.
Sealed Air Corporation (“Sealed Air” or the “Company”, also referred to as “we”, “us”, or “our”) was incorporated in Delaware in 1960. We conduct substantially all of our business through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cryovac, LLC and Sealed Air Corporation (US). We have two reportable segments, Food and Protective. Please refer to Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for financial information about the Company and its subsidiaries, which is incorporated herein by reference. Please refer to “Segments”, below for information about the Company's reportable segments. Also, when we cross reference to a “Note,” we are referring to our “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” unless the context indicates otherwise.
In 2020, we generated net sales of $4.9 billion, net earnings from continuing operations of $484 million, and net cash provided by operating activities of $737 million, all of which were higher than prior year results.
Market Strategy and Competitive Strengths
Our vision is to transform Sealed Air to a world-class company servicing the global packaging industry by executing our strategies:
Generate profitable growth;
Drive One SEE operational excellence;
Develop a One SEE high-performance culture; and
Deliver sustainable long-term value to our shareholders and society.
We focus on serving our customers by leveraging our competitive strengths which include differentiated materials, equipment and services; iconic brands; well-established customer relationships; and global scale and market access.
Differentiated Materials, Equipment and Services. For food industries we provide packaging materials, automated equipment, and services that extend shelf life, enhance brand images and drive operational excellence by eliminating waste, increasing processing speeds and reducing customers’ labor requirements. Within e-Commerce and industrial markets, we offer a broad range of protective packaging materials and automation solutions that prevent product damage, increase order fulfillment velocity, and generate savings through reductions in waste, dimensional weight and labor.
In 2020, we launched our SEE Automation Solutions strategy with the goal to provide a differentiated value proposition to our customers via world-class integrated solutions including automated equipment, services and materials. With SEE Automation Solutions, we aim to provide the best solutions, at the right price, while making them sustainable. We seek opportunities to help customers eliminate waste, simplify processes, remove people from harm's way and drive 'touchless' operations.
Iconic Brands. Our portfolio of leading packaging solutions includes Cryovac® brand food packaging, Sealed Air® brand protective packaging, Autobag® brand automated systems, Bubble Wrap® brand packaging, and SEE Automation solutions. We strive to ensure these brands continue to represent our commitment to deliver confidence in our solutions which provide security, safety, performance and innovation.
Well-established Customer Relationships. We have a broad and diversified customer base which includes the world’s leading food processors, e-Commerce and industrial manufacturers. We leverage extensive knowledge of our customers’ business when innovating new solutions, and partner with customers to effectively implement our solutions to improve and automate their operations. Our customer base is diverse, with no single customer or affiliated group of customers representing more than 10% of net sales in 2020, 2019 or 2018.
3

Global Scale and Market Access. Sealed Air serves a diverse global customer base with a sales and distribution network reaching 117 countries/territories. In 2020, 47% of net sales were from outside the U.S. Our global scale and agility have enabled us to address the evolving customer needs across our end markets and geographies. We partner with our customers as they expand their business on a global basis. Our broad geographic presence and extensive distribution network position us to capitalize on growth opportunities in markets around the world. We operate through our subsidiaries and have a presence in the U.S. and the 45 other countries/territories listed below.
Argentina		Czech Republic		Ireland		Norway		Spain	Australia		Denmark		Israel		Peru		Sweden	Belgium		Finland		Italy		Philippines		Switzerland	Brazil		France		Japan		Poland		Taiwan	Canada		Germany		Luxembourg		Portugal		Thailand	Chile		Greece		Malaysia		Russia		Ukraine	China		Guatemala		Mexico		Singapore		United Arab Emirates	Colombia		Hungary		Netherlands		South Africa		United Kingdom	Costa Rica		India		New Zealand		South Korea		Uruguay 
We face risks inherent in these international operations, such as currency fluctuations, inflation and political instability. Information on currency exchange risk appears in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Other risks attendant to our international operations are set forth in Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated herein by reference. Information on the impact of currency exchange on our Consolidated Financial Statements appears in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Financial information showing net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 and total long-lived assets by geographic region as of December 31, 2020 appears in Note 6, “Segments,” which is incorporated herein by reference.
Reinvent SEE Business Transformation to SEE Operating Model
After completing an assessment of the organization and market opportunities available across the global packaging industry, we formulated and announced our Reinvent SEE business transformation and complementary restructuring program in 2018. The objective is to transform how we innovate, buy, make, and solve our customers’ most critical packaging challenges.
Since the program began in 2018, our Reinvent SEE business transformation, initially focused on optimizing our manufacturing processes and distribution network and improving our selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) productivity, has driven significant structural operating leverage in the business, resulting in cumulative improvements to Adjusted EBITDA of $290 million. Operational disciplines are becoming embedded in the organization and demonstrating sustained results. We expect that the capabilities and governance processes established through the Reinvent SEE business transformation will translate well into our on-going continuous improvement system and enable us to generate additional savings opportunities into the future. We also expect our Reinvent SEE transformation to fuel top-line growth with a pipeline of opportunities being pursued within our commercial work streams, including those focused on growing our automation, digital and sustainability offerings. Our SEE Operating Model is rooted in economic value add with the goal to drive profitable, above market organic growth, and attractive returns on invested capital.
Refer to Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for reconciliation of net earnings from continuing operations based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) to total company Adjusted EBITDA presented on a basis which does not conform to U.S. GAAP, which we refer to as “non-U.S. GAAP.”
Our Reinvent SEE behaviors are focused on the 4P'SSM:
Performance. Achieve world-class performance by driving growth above the markets we serve, increasing our operating leverage and maintaining a disciplined investment approach.
People. Develop a One SEE high performance culture focused on driving our purpose by creating a diverse and inclusive culture and developing, retaining and attracting the best and brightest workforce.
Products. Focus on increasing our innovation rate. Offer our customers the best solutions at the right price and make them sustainable.
4

Processes. Embed One SEE operational excellence culture into everything we do by eliminating waste, simplifying processes, automating and removing people from harm’s way.
Sustainability. Make our world better than we found it by reducing our resource intensity, diverting waste from landfills and improving employee safety.
Innovation, Research and Development
Our technical capabilities encompass a broad range of disciplines including food science, materials science, chemistry and chemical engineering, electrical and software engineering, microbiology, and packaging equipment design and engineering.
Our research and development activities are principally performed in:
•four Packaging Development and Innovation Centers located in the U.S., Italy and Singapore;
•seven Equipment Design Centers in the U.S., France, Switzerland, Italy and Singapore, targeting innovation in equipment and digital solutions; and
•39 Package Design and Applications Centers for Protective around the globe.
Our research and development expense was $96 million in 2020, $77 million in 2019 and $81 million in 2018. In 2020, we brought our Package Design and Application Centers and certain engineering teams under our overall Innovation, Research and Development organization to focus the centers and teams on innovation and product development. This reallocation follows an operational change as well as a shift in organizational reporting and responsibility. As a result, approximately $13 million in expenses related to the centers and those engineering teams are now included in research and development expenses for 2020. Previously, these costs were primarily considered sales and marketing expenses within selling, general and administrative expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
In addition to our direct spend, we also, from time to time seek to expand our research and development capabilities through acquisitions and strategic equity or other investments.
In 2018, we made our first investment in disruptive technologies and business models, which we now aggregate into our recently announced SEE Ventures. Under the SEE Ventures initiative, we will make selective entrepreneurial investments that present opportunities to accelerate innovation and increase speed to market, while creating a sustainable competitive advantage. SEE Ventures is part of our capital allocation strategy focused on investing in early stage disruptive technology and new business models for growth.
We own or are the licensee of approximately 2,950 U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications, and approximately 2,360 U.S. and foreign trademark registrations and trademark applications that relate to many of our products, manufacturing processes and equipment. We file annually an average of approximately 270 U.S. and foreign patent applications and approximately 45 U.S. and foreign trademark applications. Our business is not dependent upon any single patent or trademark alone. Rather, we believe that our success depends primarily on our sales and service, marketing, engineering and manufacturing skills and on our ongoing innovation and research and development efforts. We believe that the expiration or unenforceability of any single one of our patents, applications, licenses or trademark registrations would not be material to our business or our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Sustainability
At Sealed Air, sustainability is top of mind and part of our growth strategy. We focus on reducing climate-related emissions, water use, energy use and waste in our operations and throughout the supply chain while innovating and manufacturing high performance packaging.
In the market, we are focused on creating packaging that can be recovered and recycled, contributes to consumer waste diversion efforts, reduces greenhouse gases and increases the supply of material for future reuse. We are investing in innovation and development of end-to-end packaging, including materials and automation technologies, and participating in collaborations to create a circular economy for plastic with enhanced recyclability and reusability.
We are working to achieve our 2025 Sustainability and Plastics Pledge aimed to increase plastics circularity in the packaging industry through investing in innovation, reducing plastic waste and collaborating for change.
Investment in Innovation. Dedicating R&D resources to design and advance packaging solutions to be recyclable or reusable and contain more recycled and/or renewable content.
Reduce Plastic Waste. Achieving ambitious targets of recycled content across all packaging solutions which maximize post-consumer recycled content.
5

Collaborate for Change. Aligning with strategic partners to combine resources, expertise and corporate voices to find impactful ways to create a circular economy which includes technology investments to facilitate the reuse, collection and recycling of plastic. To that end, Sealed Air is a member of the Alliance to End Plastic Waste.
Human Capital
Overview
Our people strategy is to develop a One SEE high performance culture focused on driving our purpose. We seek to bring dedicated people with diverse backgrounds, expertise and talent to work at Sealed Air. We strive to manage our business in a way that represents our core values of:
Integrity - Intentionally choosing to do the right thing, every day, no matter the circumstance;
Determined - Empowered to deliver on our commitments;
Collaborative - Operating based on mutual trust and encouraging diverse thinking to achieve common objectives; and
Innovative - Thinking without limits to solve customer, company and societal challenges.
As of December 31, 2020, we had an employee base of approximately 16,500 people. The largest component of Sealed Air's workforce is approximately 10,000 direct manufacturing employees in our manufacturing facilities. We also generally employ:
•marketing, sales, business development and technical packaging employees who work in the field and at our customers' facilities;
•innovation, sustainability and development employees who work in one of our four comprehensive packaging development and innovation centers; and
•customer service and support personnel as well as administrative and management employees who work in our offices and in remote environments.
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 7,000 employees in the U.S. and approximately 9,500 employees outside the U.S. Our workforce is relatively stable and does not have significant seasonal fluctuations.
We had approximately 100 U.S. employees and 4,800 non-U.S. employees who were covered by collective bargaining agreements as of December 31, 2020. Many of the covered employees are represented by works councils or industrial boards, as is customary in the jurisdictions in which they are employed. The collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 41% of such employees, primarily outside the U.S., will expire during 2021 and we will be engaged in negotiations to attain new agreements.
As a part of the Reinvent SEE business transformation, we are focusing on improving our human capital strategy to help develop a One SEE high performance culture. We are taking actions to engage our workforce and focus on growth and the execution of our business strategies. Actions to improve organizational productivity have resulted in a more cohesive and total company focused mindset while generating cost savings opportunities. Teams that have historically supported our Food or Protective segments are now focused on Sealed Air's overall platform on a regional or global basis. Organizational improvements in 2020 aligned our company-wide focus on functions including digital transformation, automation, R&D, sustainability and marketing. We are focused on developing a One SEE high performance culture by instilling a strong service culture and developing, retaining and attracting the best and brightest workforce.
Sealed Air's management regularly reports and discusses our workforce and people management strategies and related matters with our Board of Directors and the Organization and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, including matters related to compensation, succession planning, corporate culture, employees engagement, and diversity, equity and inclusion.
Code of Conduct, Ethics and Core Competencies
In 2019, we refreshed our written Code of Conduct which reflects our purpose and values as an organization and how we should act. It encourages all employees to promote an ethical culture and to recognize and report integrity and compliance issues. Our Code of Conduct guides us in how to manage our daily processes and interactions with professionalism, respect and integrity. Employees attest annually to reviewing and adhering to the Code of Conduct.
Employees receive regular online education as part of enhanced global ethics and compliance programs. This training includes required and monitored course training for employees in specific roles based on associated risk and function. Required sessions include the Code of Conduct, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, conflicts of interest, and workplace respect, among other legal and compliance subject matters.
6

Health and Safety
Protecting the health, safety and well-being of our people continues to be a top priority. A culture of Zero Harm and safety is an organizational imperative. Our global safety program includes behavioral-based safety training, hazard recognition and remediation and driver safety training. We also utilize a proactive approach which observes and recognizes demonstrations of proper and prudent safety operations.
In 2020, COVID-19 presented the Company with new challenges related to the health and safety of our people. The Company adopted various safety measures including enhanced cleaning procedures, employee temperature checks, use of personal protective equipment for location-dependent workers, social distancing measures within operating sites, remote work arrangements for non-location dependent employees, visitor access restrictions and limitations on travel.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
We are a global company with an employee population representing a broad diversity of cultures, languages, ethnicities, and races. We strive to improve our workplace diversity in many ways and support an inclusive culture across the globe. We evaluate talent acquisition, career development and succession planning to identify and remove unintended biases and facilitate increased diversity of our leadership talent pipeline. Recent examples of our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion include the following initiatives:
•Commitment to pay equity: We seek to drive pay equity based on experience and performance across the organization utilizing a structured global compensation framework.
•Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council: In 2020, Sealed Air formed the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Council, which is chaired by an executive team member to promote a diverse, trusting and inclusive culture for all employees.
•Women's Initiative Network (“WIN”): The WIN has been in place at Sealed Air for over ten years, with a mission to promote gender diversity with the objective to attract, retain and promote more females within Sealed Air. As of December 31, 2020, we had active WIN employee resource groups in over 18 countries.
•Unconscious Bias Training Program: In 2019, Sealed Air launched an unconscious bias training program focused on highlighting various dimensions of diversity including age, race, ethnicity, gender and sexual orientation. The program has reached more than 1,100 employees as of December 31, 2020, including the executive leadership team, international senior leaders, U.S. managers and employees at our Charlotte, North Carolina headquarters.
•CEO Action for Diversity & InclusionTM: Sealed Air is a signatory for the CEO Action for Diversity & InclusionTM, which a CEO-driven business commitment to advance diversity and inclusion within the workplace.
Recruiting, Retaining and Engaging Employees and Learning and Development
Sealed Air utilizes a global talent acquisition model to attract and place employees. From time to time, we conduct pulse surveys to solicit valuable and timely feedback from our employees on specific topics. We use the results of the pulse surveys for initiatives related to employee engagement including increased communication from managers or leaders, targeted training opportunities or other methods to improve our employees' career experiences.
Community Support
We seek to strengthen the communities we are working and living in by leveraging our expertise in sustainability, food safety, food security, technology, and innovation to protect and solve critical challenges that face our world today. Sealed Air's community investment efforts are focused on three strategic impact areas: environmental, social and economic stability; technology and innovation; and community and equity.
Segments
We report our segment information in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 280, “Segment Reporting,” (“FASB ASC Topic 280”). See Note 6, “Segments,” for further information.
Reportable Segments
Food
Food largely serves perishable food processors in fresh red meat, smoked and processed meat, poultry, seafood, plant-based and dairy (solids and liquids) markets worldwide. Food offers high-performance packaging materials and automated equipment solutions to increase food safety, extend shelf life, automate processes and optimize total cost. Its innovative, sustainable materials, automated equipment and services are designed to enable customers to reduce costs and enhance their
7

brands in the marketplace. Food solutions are marketed under the Cryovac® trademark and other highly recognized trade names including Cryovac Grip & Tear®, Cryovac Darfresh®, Cryovac Mirabella®, Simple Steps® and OptiDure™.
Food solutions are well aligned to capitalize on global market dynamics driven by continued urbanization, global growth of middle class, the e-food movement, growing consumer preference for smaller portions and healthier food choices, increasing labor scarcity and demand for more sustainable, secure packaging. Our solutions, innovative materials and proven equipment and services are designed to preserve nutrition while enhancing food safety. Technologies used in Food and continued investment in innovation positions us to not only address, but to be a global provider of solutions for sustainable packaging.
Food applications are largely sold direct to customers by our sales, marketing and customer service personnel throughout the world. Sales to governments, or government contracts, are not material to our Food segment. No single customer or affiliated group of customers represents more than 10% of segment revenue.
There are other manufacturers of products similar to those produced by Food, some that operate across multiple regions and others that operate in a single region or single country. Competing manufacturers produce a wide variety of food packaging based on plastic, metals and other materials.
Protective
Protective packaging solutions are utilized across many global markets and are especially valuable to e-Commerce, consumer goods, pharmaceutical and medical devices and industrial manufacturing. With automated equipment, sustainable materials and services, our solutions are designed to increase our customers' packaging velocity, minimize packaging waste, reduce labor dependencies and address dimensional weight challenges. Our product breadth combined with our global scale and reach helps support our customers' needs for performance excellence, consistency and reliability of supply wherever they operate around the world.
Protective solutions are marketed under brands including Bubble Wrap® brand inflatable packaging, Autobag® brand bagging systems and Sealed Air® brand performance shrink films. Protective product families include additional trade names, such as Instapak® polyurethane foam packaging solutions and Korrvu® suspension and retention packaging. Furthermore, we provide temperature assurance packaging solutions under the KevothermalTM and TempGuardTM brands.
Protective solutions are sold directly to our customers as well as through our partnership with a strategic network of distributors that service business and industrial end-users. In 2020, approximately 60% of our Protective sales were sold through distributors. We generally do not impose annual minimum purchase volume requirements on our distributors. Returns from our distributors in 2020 were not material. Sales to governments, or government contracts, are not material to our Protective segment. In 2020, one of our distributors represented approximately 10% of Protective's net sales. No other single customer or affiliated group of customers represented more than 10% of segment revenue.
There are other manufacturers of products similar to those produced by Protective. Additionally, there are products made using alternative packaging materials that customers use to provide protection against damage to their products during shipment and storage. Among the competitive materials are paper packaging, expanded plastics, corrugated die cuts, strapping, envelopes, reinforced bags, and corrugated boxes as well as various types of molded foam plastics, fabricated foam plastics, mechanical shock mounts, wood blocking and bracing systems, and an assortment of automated packaging and fulfillment systems. We believe that some of our direct competition within the protective packaging industry has a less diversified global presence.
Some of our Food and Protective competitors have been consolidating in recent years or have been involved in significant merger and acquisition activity, and we believe this trend may continue. Such consolidation could have an adverse impact on the pricing of our products and services and our ability to retain customers, which could in turn adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, we believe that a focus on sustainability, automation and equipment offering will continue to define the direction of the competitive landscape into the future in both segments.  
Raw Materials and Purchasing
Suppliers provide raw materials, packaging components, contract manufactured goods, equipment and other direct materials, such as inks, films and paper. Our principal raw materials are polyolefin and other petrochemical-based resins, as well as paper pulp products. Raw materials typically represent approximately one-third of our consolidated cost of sales. We also purchase corrugated materials, cores for rolls of products such as films and Bubble Wrap® brand cushioning, inks for printed materials, and blowing agents used in the expansion of foam packaging products. In addition, we offer a wide variety of specialized packaging equipment, some of which we manufacture or have manufactured to our specifications, some of which we assemble and some of which we purchase from suppliers. Automated equipment and accessories are designed for e-Commerce fulfillment centers, industrial and food packaging equipment.
8

The vast majority of the raw materials required for the manufacture of our products and all components related to our equipment and accessories generally have been readily available on the open market and, in most cases, are available from several suppliers and are available in amounts sufficient to meet our manufacturing requirements. However, in some regions we rely on some sole-source suppliers, and the lack of availability of supplies could have a material negative impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornados, earthquakes or other severe weather events, as well as political instability and terrorist activities, may negatively impact the production or delivery capabilities of refineries and natural gas and petrochemical suppliers and suppliers of other raw materials. Due to by-product/co-product chemical relationships to the automotive and housing markets, several materials may become difficult to source. These factors could lead to increased prices for our raw materials, curtailment of supplies, allocation of raw materials and other force majeure events by our suppliers. We purchase some materials used in our packaging products from materials recycled in our manufacturing operations or obtained through participation in recycling programs. Although we purchase some raw materials under long-term supply arrangements with third parties, these arrangements follow market forces and are in line with our overall global purchasing strategy, which seeks to balance the cost of acquisition and availability of supply.
We have a centralized supply chain organization, which includes centralized management of purchasing and logistic activities. Our objective is to leverage our global scale to achieve purchasing efficiencies and reduce our total delivered cost across all our regions. We do this while adhering to strategic performance metrics and stringent purchasing practices.
Seasonality
On a consolidated basis, there is minimal seasonality in the business, with net sales slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter. Our consolidated results of operations typically trend directionally the same as our net sales seasonality. Historically, net sales in our Food segment have tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and slightly higher towards the end of the third quarter through the fourth quarter, due to holiday events. Net sales in our Protective segment have also tended to be slightly lower in the first quarter and higher in the mid-third quarter and through the fourth quarter due to the holiday shopping season. However, the extent and timing of our results of operations may be difficult to predict if significant one-time transactions, events or non-recurring charges were to impact our business. Cash flow from operations has tended to be lower in the first quarter and higher in the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality of sales and working capital changes, including the timing of certain annual incentive compensation payments.
Throughout 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in anomalies to historical seasonality trends generated by changes in end-consumer behavior, such as an increase in e-Commerce sales, or temporary closures or productivity reductions within our customers' operations. We cannot predict the impact to the markets we serve or the timing or extent of sales due to the prolonged impact or future spread or worsening of the COVID-19 pandemic or future restrictions on commercial activities by governmental agencies to limit future spread of the virus. In addition to COVID-19, other factors may also outweigh the effects of seasonal changes in our net earnings results including, but not limited to, changes in raw materials and other costs, timing of pricing actions, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, taxes and the timing and amount of acquisition synergies and restructuring and other non-recurring charges.
Compliance with Government Regulations
As a manufacturer, we are subject to various laws, rules and regulations in the countries/territories, jurisdictions and localities in which we operate. These cover, among other things, the safe storage and use of raw materials and production chemicals, the release of materials into the environment, and standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. We have an environmental management system that aids in our management of environmental, health and safety matters pertaining to our operations. Key elements of this environmental management system are implemented throughout our operations. We believe that compliance with current environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures or consolidated financial condition.
In some jurisdictions in which our packaging products are sold or used, laws and regulations have been adopted or proposed that seek to regulate, among other things, minimum levels of recycled or reprocessed content and, more generally, the sale or disposal of packaging materials. We maintain programs designed to comply with these laws and regulations and to monitor their evolution. Various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations regulate some of our products and require us to register certain products and comply with specified requirements. We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that regulate products manufactured and sold by us for controlling microbial growth on humans, animals and processed foods. In the U.S., these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). To date, the cost of complying with product registration requirements and FDA compliance, and similar non-U.S. laws, has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
9

We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations which ensure safe working conditions for our employees. In the U.S., these requirements are generally administered by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (“OSHA”). To date, the cost of complying with worker safety requirements and OSHA compliance, and similar non-U.S. laws, has not had a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Our emphasis on environmental, health and safety compliance provides us with risk reduction opportunities and cost savings through asset protection and protection of employees. We have policies in place which guide the Company in environmental, health and safety matters including training, materials conservation, communications, targets and transparency.
We maintain programs to comply with the various laws, rules and regulations related to the protection of the environment that we may be subject to in the many countries/territories in which we operate. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Environmental Matters.”
Available Information
Our Internet address is www.sealedair.com. We make available, free of charge, on or through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports that we file or furnish pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains these filings and they can be accessed via the Internet address https://www.sec.gov. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Form 10-K.
