PART I.
ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
General
SVB Financial Group ("SVB Financial") is a diversified financial services company, as well as a bank holding company and a financial holding company. SVB Financial was incorporated in the state of Delaware in March 1999. Through our various subsidiaries and divisions, we offer a diverse set of banking and financial products and services to clients across the United States, as well as in key international innovation markets. For more than 35 years, we have been dedicated to helping support entrepreneurs and clients of all sizes and stages throughout their life cycles, primarily in the technology, life science/healthcare, private equity/venture capital and premium wine industries.
We offer commercial and private banking products and services through our principal subsidiary, Silicon Valley Bank (the “Bank”), which is a California state-chartered bank founded in 1983 and a member of the Federal Reserve System. The Bank and its subsidiaries also offer asset management, private wealth management and other investment services. In addition, through SVB Financial's other subsidiaries and divisions, we offer investment banking services and non-banking products and services, such as funds management and M&A advisory services. We focus on cultivating strong relationships with firms within the private equity and venture capital community worldwide, many of which are also our clients and may invest in our corporate clients.
As of December 31, 2020, on a consolidated basis, we had total assets of $115.5 billion, total investment securities of $49.3 billion, total loans, amortized cost, of $45.2 billion, total deposits of $102.0 billion and total SVB Financial stockholders' equity of $8.2 billion.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, CA, we operate in key innovation markets in the United States and around the world. Our corporate office is located at 3003 Tasman Drive, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number is (408) 654-7400.
When we refer to “SVB Financial Group,” "SVBFG," the “Company,” “we,” “our,” “us” or use similar words, we mean SVB Financial Group and all of its subsidiaries collectively, including the Bank. When we refer to “SVB Financial” or the “Parent” we are referring only to our parent company entity, SVB Financial Group (not including subsidiaries).
Business Overview
For reporting purposes, SVB Financial Group has four operating segments for which we report financial information in this report: Global Commercial Bank, SVB Private Bank, SVB Capital and SVB Leerink.
Global Commercial Bank
Our Global Commercial Bank segment is comprised of results primarily from our Commercial Bank, our Global Fund Banking (formerly Private Equity) Division, SVB Wine and our Debt Fund Investments, each as further described below.
Commercial Bank. Our Commercial Bank products and services are provided by the Bank and its subsidiaries to commercial clients primarily in the technology and life science/healthcare industries. The Bank provides solutions to the financial needs of commercial clients through credit, treasury management, foreign exchange, trade finance and other financial products and services. We broadly serve clients within the U.S., as well as non-U.S. clients in key international innovation markets.
The Bank offers commercial clients a full range of credit solutions including traditional term loans, equipment loans, asset-based loans, revolving lines of credit, warehouse facilities, recurring revenue facilities, mezzanine lending, acquisition finance facilities, corporate working capital facilities, and credit card programs. These loans may be secured by clients' assets or future cash flows or may be unsecured.
The Bank's treasury management products and services include a wide range of deposits and receivable services, payments and cash management solutions accessible through our expanding online and mobile banking platforms. Deposit products include business and analysis checking accounts, money market accounts, multi-currency accounts, in-country bank accounts and sweep accounts. In connection with deposit services, the Bank provides receivables services, which include merchant services, remote capture, lockbox, and fraud control services. Payment and cash management products and services include wire transfer and automated clearing house payment services to enable clients to transfer funds more quickly, as well as business bill pay, business credit and debit cards, account analysis and disbursement services.
The Bank's foreign exchange and trade finance products and services help to facilitate clients' global finance and business needs. These products and services include foreign exchange services that help commercial clients to manage their foreign currency needs and risks through the purchase and sale of currencies in the spot market as well as with currency
6
Table of Contents
swaps and hedges. The Bank also offers letters of credit, including export, import and standby letters of credit, to enable clients to ship and receive goods globally.
The Bank and its subsidiaries also offer a variety of investment services and solutions to its clients that enable them to more effectively manage their assets. For example, through its registered investment advisory subsidiary, SVB Asset Management, the Bank offers discretionary investment advisory services based on its clients' investment policies, strategies and objectives. The Bank also offers investment solutions through our repurchase agreement program.
Global Fund Banking (formerly Private Equity) Division. Our Global Fund Banking Division provides banking products and services primarily to our global private equity and venture capital clients.
SVB Wine. SVB Wine provides banking products and services to our premium wine industry clients, including vineyard development loans.
Debt Fund Investments. Debt Fund Investments is comprised of our investments in debt funds in which we are a strategic investor: (i) funds managed by Gold Hill Capital, which provide secured debt to private companies of all stages, and (ii) funds managed by Partners for Growth LLC, which provide secured debt primarily to mid-stage and late-stage companies.
SVB Private Bank
SVB Private Bank is the private banking and wealth management division of the Bank and provides a broad array of personal financial solutions for its clients, which are primarily executive leaders and senior investment professionals in the innovation economy. SVB Private Bank, which includes SVB Wealth Advisory, a registered investment advisor and broker-dealer subsidiary of the Bank, offers a customized approach to private wealth management and private banking services, including mortgages, home equity lines of credit, restricted stock purchase loans, capital call lines of credit and other secured and unsecured lending products. We also help our private banking clients meet their cash management needs by providing deposit account products and services, including checking, money market, certificates of deposit accounts, online banking, credit cards and other personalized banking services. SVB Private Bank also includes SVB Wealth Advisory, an investment advisory subsidiary of the Bank, which provides private wealth management services to individual clients.
On January 4, 2021, SVBFG, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with Boston Private Financial Holdings, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (“Boston Private”). The Merger Agreement provides that, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, Boston Private will merge with and into SVBFG, with SVBFG continuing as the surviving entity in the transaction. Following the transaction, Boston Private’s wholly owned subsidiary, Boston Private Bank & Trust Company, will merge with and into the Bank (the “Bank Merger”), with Silicon Valley Bank continuing as the surviving entity in the Bank Merger. Boston Private provides a full spectrum of wealth, trust, and private banking services dedicated to helping clients simplify and strengthen their financial positions. The transaction has been unanimously approved by both companies' Boards of Directors and is expected to close in mid-2021, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including receipt of customary regulatory approvals and approval by the shareholders of Boston Private. As the transaction was not signed, and did not close, as of December 31, 2020, results for Boston Private are not included in this report.
SVB Capital
SVB Capital is the venture capital investment arm of SVB Financial Group, which focuses primarily on funds management. SVB Capital manages over $6.8 billion of funds on behalf of third party limited partner investors and, on a more limited basis, SVB Financial Group. The SVB Capital family of funds is comprised of direct venture funds that invest in companies and funds of funds that invest in other venture capital funds, and more recently (as a result of an acquisition from WestRiver Group in December 2020), debt funds that provide lending and other financing solutions. SVB Capital generates income for the Company primarily through investment returns (including carried interest) and management fees. See Note 2—“Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 of this report for additional details.
SVB Leerink
SVB Leerink is an investment bank specializing in equity and convertible capital markets, M&A, equity research and sales and trading for growth- and innovation-minded healthcare and life science companies and operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of SVB Financial. SVB Leerink provides investment banking services across all subsectors of healthcare including biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, diagnostic and life science tools, healthcare services and digital health. SVB Leerink focuses on two primary lines of business: (i) investment banking focused on providing companies with capital-raising
7
Table of Contents
services, financial advice on mergers and acquisitions, sales and trading services and equity research, and (ii) sponsorship of private investment funds.
For more information about our four operating segments, including financial information and results of operations, see “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Operating Segment Results” under Part II, Item 7 of this report, and Note 24—“Segment Reporting” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 of this report.
Revenue Sources
Our total revenue is comprised of net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis and noninterest income for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $2.17 billion and $1.84 billion, respectively.
Net interest income accounts for the major portion of our earnings. It is comprised primarily of income generated from interest rate spread differences between the interest rates received on interest-earning assets, such as loans extended to clients and securities held in our fixed income securities portfolio, and the interest rates paid by us on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our deposits are largely obtained from commercial clients within our technology, life science/healthcare and private equity/venture capital industry sectors. We also obtain deposits from the premium wine industry commercial clients and from our SVB Private Bank clients. Other than our Private Bank clients, we do not obtain deposits from retail or consumer banking sources.
Noninterest income is primarily income generated from our fee-based services and gains on our investments and derivative securities. We offer a wide range of fee-based financial services to our clients, including global commercial banking, private banking and other business services. We generally refer to revenues generated by such fee-based services as our "core fee income," (a non-GAAP measure) which is comprised of our client investment fees, foreign exchange fees, credit card fees, deposit service charges, lending related fees and letters of credit and standby letters of credit fees. In addition, through SVB Leerink, we offer investment banking and M&A advisory services. We generally refer to our core fee income plus revenues generated by these investment banking and M&A advisory services as “core fee income plus SVB Leerink revenue.” We believe our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to our clients is a strength of our business model. Additionally, we hold available-for-sale, held-to-maturity, non-marketable and marketable investment securities. Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, we manage and invest in private equity/venture capital funds that invest directly in privately-held companies, as well as funds that invest in other private equity/venture capital funds. Gains on these investments are reported in our consolidated statements of income and include noncontrolling interests. We also recognize gains from warrants to acquire stock in client companies, which we obtain in connection with negotiating credit facilities and certain other services. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Noninterest Income-Gains on Investment Securities, Net” and "Gains on Equity Warrant Assets, Net" under Part II, Item 7 of this report.
We derive substantially all of our revenue from U.S. clients. We derived less than 10 percent of our total revenues from foreign clients for each of 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Client Industries
We provide products and services to serve the needs of our clients in each of the industries described below. We serve our commercial company clients throughout their life cycles, beginning with the "emerging" or "early-stage" and progressing through later stages as their needs mature and expand, primarily in the technology and life science/healthcare industries. We also serve other targeted client industries --- private equity and venture capital firms, premium wine and private banking/wealth management.
Technology and Life Science/Healthcare
We serve a variety of clients in the technology and life science/healthcare industries. Our technology clients tend to be in the industries of frontier tech and hardware (such as semiconductors, communications, data, storage and electronics); enterprise and consumer software/internet (such as infrastructure software, applications, software services, digital content and advertising technology), fintech and energy and resource innovation ("ERI"). Our life science/healthcare clients primarily tend to be in the industries of biotechnology, medical devices, healthcare information technology and healthcare services. A key component of our technology and life science/healthcare business strategy is to develop relationships with clients at an early stage and offer them banking services that will continue to meet their needs as they mature and expand. We serve these clients primarily through three practices:
•Our SVB Accelerator practice focuses on serving our “emerging” or “early-stage” clients. These clients are generally privately-held companies in the start-up or early stages of their life cycles and funded by friends and family, “seed”
8
Table of Contents
or “angel” investors or have gone through an initial round of venture capital financing. They are typically engaged primarily in research and development activities and may have brought only a few products or services to market, if any. SVB Accelerator clients tend to have annual revenues below $5 million, and many are pre-revenue companies.
•Our SVB Growth practice serves our “mid-stage” and “later-stage” clients. These clients are generally privately-held companies in the intermediate or later stages of their life cycles, and are often dependent on venture capital for funding. However, some of these clients are in the more advanced stages of their life cycles and may be publicly-held or poised to become publicly-held. Our SVB Growth clients generally have a more established product or service offering in the market and may be in a period of expansion. SVB Growth clients tend to have annual revenues between $5 million and $75 million.
•Our SVB Corporate Finance practice primarily serves our large corporate clients, which are more mature and established companies. These clients are generally publicly-held or large privately-held companies and have a more sophisticated product or service offering in the market. SVB Corporate Finance clients tend to have annual revenues over $75 million.

In addition, our Sponsored Finance group provides debt financing in support of private equity sponsored company acquisitions, primarily technology and life science/healthcare companies.

Global Fund Banking (formerly Private Equity/Venture Capital)
We serve clients in the private equity/venture capital community, many of whom are investors in the portfolio company clients to whom we provide banking services. In particular, we provide credit facilities to our private equity/venture capital clients, including capital call lines of credit, the repayment of which is dependent on the payment of capital calls or management fees by the underlying limited partner investors in the funds managed by the firms.
Since our founding, we have cultivated strong relationships within the venture capital community, which has over time expanded to relationships within the private equity community. We believe our network helps to facilitate deal flow opportunities between these private equity/venture capital firms and the companies within the markets we serve.
Premium Wine
We are one of the leading providers of financial services to premium wine producers across the western United States, primarily in California’s Napa Valley, Sonoma County and Central Coast regions, as well as the Pacific Northwest. We focus on vineyards and wineries that produce grapes and premium wines.
Private Bank/Wealth Management
We provide private banking and wealth management services to consumer clients, including private equity/venture capital professionals and executive leaders of the innovation companies they support. We offer private banking, cash management and wealth management services to meet their personal banking and financial needs.

Competition
The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive and continues to evolve as a result of changes in regulation, technology, product delivery systems and the general market and economic climate. Our competitors include other banks, debt funds, specialty and diversified financial services intermediaries and other “Fintech” disruptors that offer lending, leasing, payments, investment, foreign currency exchange, advisory and other financial products and services to our target client base. For example, we compete with alternative lenders, such as “marketplace” lenders, peer-to-peer lenders and other non-traditional lenders that have emerged in recent years. We also compete with non-financial service providers, particularly payment facilitators and processors, as well as other nonbanking technology providers in the payments industry which may offer specialized services to our client base. In addition, we compete with hedge funds and private equity funds, as well as investment banks. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product offerings, service, pricing and transaction size and structure. Given our established market position within the client segments that we serve, our continued efforts to develop products and services, and our ability to integrate and cross-sell our diverse financial services to extend the length of our relationships with our clients, we believe we compete favorably in the markets in our core business areas.
Human Capital
SVB Financial Group’s success is dependent on our ability to retain, attract and motivate qualified employees. We rely on our personnel, which includes a substantial number of employees who have technical or other expertise and/or a strong network of relationships with individuals and institutions in the markets we serve. Competition for skilled and qualified
9
Table of Contents
personnel in financial services, technology and innovation is significant in the markets in which we operate. As part of our effort to retain, attract and motivate employees, we strive to offer competitive compensation and benefits, promote diversity, equity and inclusion, support the safety and well-being of our employees, encourage our employees to give back to their communities and lead with our corporate values. Through these efforts, we strive to foster a workplace and environment that empower our employees to be successful.
As of December 31, 2020, we employed 4,461 full-time equivalent employees. Approximately 81% of our employees are in the United states and approximately 19% are in international locations, including the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany, Israel, China, Hong Kong, Canada, India and Denmark.
Specifically during 2020, much of our human capital management focus was in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. As described further under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Management’s Overview of 2020 Financial Performance – Recent Developments – COVID-19”, we focused on the safety, well-being and stability of our people. We maintained our workforce without the need for any furloughs or layoffs. Our primary focus was to provide support for our employees, including expanded medical and other support to those directly impacted by COVID-19, mental health and wellness support, and other work-from-home support such as utility stipends and technology and equipment.
Compensation and Benefits. In order to retain and attract talent, we provide employees with competitive compensation and benefits packages. Our compensation and benefits program provides both short-term and long-term awards, incentivizing performance and aligning employee and shareholder interests. Employee compensation packages include a competitive base salary and, subject to Company and individual performance, may include an annual incentive cash bonus. Employees at certain levels are eligible to receive equity awards tied to the value of the Company’s stock. Other employee benefits include health insurance (medical, dental and vision), parental bonding leave, a 401(k) plan with matching employee contributions, an employee stock purchase plan, an employee home ownership plan that offers mortgages on primary homes, paid time off, life insurance, disability insurance and learning opportunities.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”). We believe that advancing diversity, equity and inclusion produces better results for our clients and is crucial to attracting and retaining skilled personnel. We embrace pathways to increase diversity and achieve gender parity in our senior leadership. Our approach to promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace includes employee awareness programs and resource groups, internal DEI-focused “town hall” meetings, training and educational opportunities, fair pay analysis, leadership development, hiring outreach programs and strategic partnerships to advance diversity objectives. We published our first DEI report in 2020, a copy of which is available on our Company website.
Safety and Well-Being. The safety and well-being of our employees is of paramount importance. We have developed and maintain company procedures and practices to ensure the safety of our employees in the different markets we operate. We are also committed to maintaining a work environment that is free of harassment or discriminatory practices. We have processes and escalation channels for employees to report harassment, discrimination or other concerns. In addition, we regularly seek feedback from employees through engagement surveys to help evaluate whether employees are satisfied and engaged in their job positions, as well as understand and are aligned with our business objectives and values.
Community. We are committed to giving back to the communities in which our employees live and work and believe these efforts help us retain and attract talent. We match certain employee charitable donations to eligible non-profits. We also encourage employee volunteering. Our non-profit charitable SVB Foundation also contributes to community organizations and other causes. We have published our Corporate Responsibility Report for 2020 on our website, which provides additional information about our community initiatives.
Company Values. Our Company values guide our actions and empower our employees to be successful. Our core values are: start with empathy for others; speak and act with integrity; embrace diverse perspectives; take responsibility; and keep learning and improving. We believe that our values are key to attracting, retaining, and inspiring our employees and contribute to the success of both our business and the innovation economy more generally.
Supervision and Regulation
Our bank and bank holding company operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state regulatory agencies. This regulation is intended primarily for the stability of the U.S. banking system as well as the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”). This regulation is not intended for the benefit of our security holders.
As a bank holding company that has elected financial holding company (“FHC”) status, SVB Financial is subject to primary regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the “BHC Act”). The Bank, as a California state-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System, is subject to primary supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve as well as the DFPI. In addition, the Bank must comply with
10
Table of Contents
certain requirements of the FDIC as, to the extent provided by law, the Bank’s deposits are insured by the FDIC. Our consumer banking activities also are subject to regulation and supervision by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the “CFPB”).
SVB Financial and certain of its non-bank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the SEC and FINRA as well as certain other federal and state regulatory agencies. In addition, we are subject to regulation by certain foreign regulatory agencies in international jurisdictions where we conduct, or may in the future wish to conduct, business, including the United Kingdom, Israel, Hong Kong, China, Germany and Canada. (See “International Regulation” below.)
The following discussion of statutes and regulations is a summary and does not purport to be complete. This discussion is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations referred to in this discussion. Regulators, the U.S. Congress, state legislatures and international consultative and standard-setting bodies continue to enact rules, laws and policies to regulate the financial services industry and public companies in an effort to protect consumers and investors, and may have differing interpretations in the implementation of such rules. The change of control in the U.S. Congress and in the U.S. presidential administration, as well as related changes in key personnel at regulatory agencies, could result in changes in regulations applicable to us and how they are interpreted. As a result, the precise nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on the Company’s business cannot be predicted and, in some cases, may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations. For more information, see “Risk Factors-Legal and Regulatory Risks” under Part I, Item IA of this report.

Regulation and Supervision of SVB Financial and Silicon Valley Bank
As a financial holding company, SVB Financial generally may engage in certain otherwise prohibited non-banking activities and activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be “financial in nature” or incidental or complementary to activities that are financial in nature, including certain securities, merchant banking and insurance activities.
In order to retain FHC status, a financial holding company and all of its depository institution subsidiaries must be well-capitalized and well-managed, as determined under relevant banking regulations. Otherwise, SVB Financial could face material restrictions on its activities and its ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, if the Bank has not received at least a satisfactory rating on its most recent examination under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”), we would not be able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a company that engages in such activities. In that case, we would still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting banking activities. The Bank continues to be in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.
Pursuant to applicable California and federal law, state-chartered commercial banks are permitted to engage in any activity permissible for national banks, which includes the many so-called “closely related to banking” or “non-banking” activities commonly conducted by national banks. In addition, the Bank may conduct, through a subsidiary, certain “financial” activities that would be impermissible for the Bank itself to the same extent as a national bank may, provided the Bank remains “well-capitalized,” “well-managed” and in satisfactory compliance with the CRA.
Bank holding companies and insured banks are subject to potential enforcement actions of varying levels of severity by federal and state regulators and law enforcement authorities for unsafe or unsound practices in conducting their business or for violations of law, regulation or condition imposed in writing by any applicable agency or term of a written agreement with that agency.
Enhanced Prudential Standards
In October 2019, the federal banking agencies issued rules that tailor the application of enhanced prudential standards to large bank holding companies and the capital and liquidity rules to large bank holding companies and depository institutions (the “Tailoring Rules”) to implement amendments to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) under the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (the “EGRRCPA”). Under the EGRRCPA, the threshold above which the Federal Reserve is required to apply enhanced prudential standards to bank holding companies increased from $50 billion in average total consolidated assets to $250 billion. The Federal Reserve may also impose enhanced prudential standards on bank holding companies with between $100 billion and $250 billion in average total consolidated assets.
Under the Tailoring Rules, banking organizations are grouped into four categories based on their U.S. G-SIB status, size and four other risk-based indicators. The most stringent standards apply to U.S. G-SIBs, which represent Category I, and the least stringent standards apply to Category IV organizations, which have between $100 billion and $250 billion in average total consolidated assets and less than $75 billion in all four other risk-based indicators. SVB Financial, as a banking organization with less than $100 billion in average total consolidated assets, currently is not subject to most of the enhanced prudential standards, but will be subject to heightened requirements when we surpass $100 billion in average total consolidated assets over four consecutive financial quarters, which we expect to occur in 2021. Category IV firms are, among other things, subject to (1) certain liquidity risk management and risk committee requirements, including liquidity buffer and liquidity stress testing
11
Table of Contents
requirements; (2) requirements to develop and maintain a capital plan on an annual basis; and (3) supervisory capital stress testing on a biennial basis. Several of the standards are summarized below:

•Risk Management. Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in average total consolidated assets, including SVB Financial, are subject to risk committee and risk management requirements. In addition, bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets are subject to liquidity risk management, liquidity buffer and liquidity stress testing requirements. 
•Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (“CCAR”). Bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets are required to submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve. In January 2021, the Federal Reserve finalized changes to the capital plan rule, which will, among other things, provide firms subject to Category IV standards additional flexibility to develop their capital plans. For firms subject to CCAR, failure to submit a satisfactory plan can result in restrictions on capital distributions, including dividends and common stock repurchases. The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that BHCs have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that account for each company’s unique risks and that permit continued operations during times of economic and financial stress.
•Stress Testing. Bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets are subject to supervisory stress tests conducted by the Federal Reserve every other year and, except for Category IV firms, are also subject to company-run stress testing requirements (commonly referred to as Dodd-Frank Stress Tests or “DFAST”) to determine whether the firms have sufficient capital on a consolidated basis necessary to absorb losses in baseline and severely adverse economic conditions. Because we expect to be a Category IV firm, we do not expect to be subject to DFAST. Under the Tailoring Rules, bank holding companies with less than $100 billion in average total consolidated assets are not subject to company-run or supervisory stress testing requirements.
•Resolution Planning. Except for Category IV firms, bank holding companies with $100 billion or more in average total consolidated assets are required to submit to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. Bank holding companies with less than $100 billion in average total consolidated assets are not required to submit resolution plans. Because we expect to be a Category IV firm, we do not expect to be required to submit a resolution plan. Separately, the FDIC requires insured depository institutions (“IDIs”) with average total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as the Bank, to submit a resolution plan with respect to the bank. In April 2019, the FDIC released an advance notice of proposed rulemaking about potential changes to its IDI resolution planning requirements, and the next round of IDI resolution plan submissions will not be required until the rulemaking process was complete. In January 2021, the FDIC lifted the moratorium on resolution plans required for IDIs with $100 billion or more in assets. The FDIC plans to provide further details surrounding its modified approach, including efforts to streamline content requirements for IDI plan submissions, as well as outline the timing for submissions, in early 2021.
•Liquidity Coverage Ratio. Banking organizations in Categories I-III and certain Category IV institutions with greater than $50 billion in weighted short-term wholesale funding (“WSTWF”) are subject to the liquidity coverage ratio (“LCR”) requirements and must maintain high-quality liquid assets in accordance with specific quantitative requirements. Given that we have less than $50 billion in WSTWF, we do not expect to be subject to an LCR requirement.
Regulatory Capital
U.S. banking organizations are subject to a comprehensive capital framework (the “Capital Rules”), issued by the federal banking agencies, which implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. “Basel III” refers to the internationally agreed regulatory capital framework adopted by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”).
The Capital Rules establish minimum risk-weighted capital ratios for Common Equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital as well as a minimum leverage ratio. CET1 is defined as common stock, plus related surplus, and retained earnings plus minority interest in the form of common stock, subject to a limit, less the majority of the regulatory deductions and adjustments. For most banking organizations, the most common form of Tier 1 capital (other than CET1) is noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and the most common form of Tier 2 capital is subordinated debt and a portion of the allowance for loan and lease losses, in each case, subject to certain requirements. Total capital consists of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital.
Under the Capital Rules, the minimum capital ratios applicable to SVB Financial and the Bank are as follows: 4.5% CET1 capital, 6.0% Tier 1 capital, 8.0% Total capital and 4.0% Tier 1 leverage. In addition, banking organizations must meet a 2.5% CET1 risk-based capital conservation buffer requirement in order to avoid constraints on capital distributions, such as dividends and equity repurchases, and certain bonus compensation for executive officers. The severity of the constraints would depend on the amount of the shortfall and the banking organization’s “eligible retained income” (that is, four-quarter trailing net income, net of distributions and tax effects not reflected in net income). In March 2020, for BHCs with $100 billion
12
Table of Contents
or more in assets, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule replacing the static 2.5% component of the capital conservation buffer with a firm-specific stress capital buffer (“SCB”) requirement, reflecting stressed losses in the supervisory severely adverse scenario of the Federal Reserve’s CCAR stress tests and including four quarters of planned common stock dividends, subject to a minimum 2.5% floor. During a year in which a Category IV firm does not undergo a supervisory stress test, the firm will receive an updated SCB that reflects the firm’s updated planned common stock dividends. A Category IV firm may also elect to participate in the supervisory stress test in a year in which the firm would not normally be subject to the supervisory stress test to receive an updated SCB.
The regulatory capital ratios of SVB Financial and the Bank currently exceed these levels, as shown in the following chart:
December 31, 2020		SVB Financial		Bank		Required Ratio (1)	CET 1 risk-based capital		11.04%		10.70%		7.0%	Tier 1 risk-based capital		11.89%		10.70%		8.5	Total risk-based capital		12.64%		11.49%		10.5	Tier 1 leverage		7.45%		6.43%		4.0 
 
(1)     Percentages represent the minimum capital ratios plus, as applicable, the 2.5% CET1 capital conservation buffer under the Capital Rules.
The regulatory capital ratios of SVB Financial and the Bank also exceed the “well-capitalized” requirements under relevant regulations. Refer to Note 23—“Regulatory Matters” of the “Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements” under Part II, Item 8 of this report for more information.
In July 2019, the federal banking agencies issued final rules intended to simplify compliance with capital rules for non-advanced approaches banking organizations (the “Capital Simplification Rules”), such as SVB Financial and the Bank. The Capital Simplification Rules took effect for SVB Financial as of January 1, 2020 and simplify the capital treatment of mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets, investments in unconsolidated financial institutions and minority interests for banking organizations.
In December 2017, the Basel Committee published standards that it described as the finalization of the Basel III post-crisis regulatory reforms. Among other things, these standards revise the Basel Committee’s standardized approach for credit risk (including recalibrating risk weights and introducing new capital requirements for certain “unconditionally cancellable commitments,” and establish a new standardized approach for operational risk capital. Under the current Capital Rules, operational risk capital requirements do not apply to non-advanced approaches banking organizations, such as SVB Financial and the Bank. The federal banking agencies have not yet implemented these revised standards, and their impact on SVB Financial and the Bank will depend on the manner in which they are implemented.
In light of the economic disruptions and operational challenges related to the COVID-19 pandemic, in 2020 the federal banking agencies adopted a rule that provides relief to banking organizations with respect to the impact of CECL on regulatory capital (the “2020 CECL Transition Rule”). Under the 2020 CECL Transition Rule, banking organizations that adopt CECL during the 2020 calendar year, such as SVB Financial and the Bank, may delay the estimated impact of CECL on regulatory capital until January 2022, followed by a three-year period to phase out the aggregate capital benefit provided during the initial two-year delay. The rule prescribes a methodology for estimating the impact of differences in credit loss allowances reflected under CECL versus under the incurred loss methodology during the five-year transition period. We have elected to use the five-year transition option under the 2020 CECL Transition Rule.
Capital Planning
Banking organizations must have appropriate capital planning processes, with proper oversight from the Board of Directors. The Federal Reserve expects bank holding companies, such as SVB Financial, to conduct and document comprehensive capital adequacy analyses prior to the declaration of any dividends (on common stock, preferred stock, or other Tier 1 capital instruments), capital redemptions or capital repurchases. Moreover, the federal banking agencies view the adequacy and effectiveness of a bank’s interest rate risk management process and the level of its interest rate exposures as critical factors in the evaluation of the bank’s capital adequacy. A bank with material weaknesses in its interest rate risk management process or high levels of interest rate exposure relative to its capital will be directed by the relevant federal banking agencies to take corrective actions.
The Capital Simplification Rules eliminate the standalone prior approval requirement for any repurchase of common stock. In certain circumstances, repurchases of common stock may be subject to a prior approval or notice requirement under other regulations or policies of the Federal Reserve. Any redemption or repurchase of preferred stock or subordinated debt remains subject to the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. Once we exceed $100 billion in average total consolidated assets and are subject to the SCB and CCAR framework, we will be required to submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve.
13
Table of Contents
If we are required to resubmit a capital plan, we must receive prior approval from the Federal Reserve for any dividend, stock repurchase or other capital distribution, other than a capital distribution on a newly issued capital instrument.
On June 25, 2020, the Federal Reserve announced that all BHCs participating in CCAR were required to update and resubmit their capital plans in light of the economic uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, and such BHCs were also generally required to suspend share repurchases and limit dividend payments. On September 30, 2020, the Federal Reserve extended these measures for the fourth quarter of 2020. The Federal Reserve announced on December 18, 2020 that it would extend the distribution limitations to the first quarter of 2021, subject to adjustment, requiring that dividend payments and share repurchases be limited to an amount not in excess of average net income over the four preceding quarters, provided that dividend payments remain limited to the amount paid in the second quarter of 2020.
Proprietary Trading and Relationships with Certain Funds
The Volcker Rule, set out in section 13 of the BHC Act, restricts, among other things, bank holding companies and their affiliates from engaging in proprietary trading and from sponsoring, investing in, or having certain other relationships with certain privately offered funds, including certain hedge funds and private equity funds (“covered funds”). On June 6, 2017, we received notice that the Federal Reserve approved our application for an extension of the permitted conformance period for our investments in certain “illiquid” covered funds ("Restricted Volcker Investments"). The approval extends the deadline by which the Company must sell, divest, restructure or otherwise conform such Restricted Volcker Investments to the provisions of the Volcker Rule until the earlier of July 21, 2022 or the date by which each fund matures by its terms or is otherwise conformed to the Volcker Rule. As of December 31, 2020, we estimate that the aggregate carrying value and fair value of venture capital and private equity fund investments deemed to be Restricted Volcker Investments was approximately $230 million. These investments are comprised of interests attributable solely to the Company in our consolidated managed funds and certain of our non-marketable securities. We expect these Restricted Volcker Investments will comply with the Volcker Rule, subject to the amended rules and amendments discussed below, before July 21, 2022 (or, if they do not comply, be disposed of prior to July 21, 2022).
In October 2019, the Volcker Rule implementing agencies, including the Federal Reserve (the “Agencies”), finalized rules amending the regulations implementing the Volcker Rule (the "2019 Volcker Amendments"). These amendments tailor compliance requirements based on the size of a firm’s trading assets and liabilities and eliminate or adjust certain requirements to clarify permitted and prohibited activities. The 2019 Volcker Amendments went into effect on January 1, 2020, and became mandatory on January 1, 2021. Additionally, on June 25, 2020, the Agencies approved further amendments (the “2020 Volcker Amendments”) effective October 1, 2020, which provide for, among other things, the adoption of new exclusions from the definition of “covered fund” for venture capital funds and credit funds that meet certain criteria. We believe that a substantial portion of our Restricted Volcker Investments will qualify for these new exclusions, or will have commenced or completed a liquidation or dissolution process, and thus, would not be required to be disposed of or otherwise conformed under the Volcker Rule requirements. We continue to assess the extent of the impact of the 2019 Volcker Amendments and the 2020 Volcker Amendments, on our fund investments and other areas of our business.
Prompt Corrective Action
State and federal banking agencies possess broad powers to take corrective and other supervisory action against an insured bank and its holding company. For example, an IDI is placed into one of five categories based on the level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. At each successive lower capital category, an IDI is subject to more restrictions and prohibitions, including restrictions on growth, restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, restrictions or prohibitions on payment of dividends and restrictions on the acceptance of brokered deposits. Based upon its capital levels, a bank that is classified as well-capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or practice warrants such treatment.
Restrictions on Dividends
Dividends from the Bank constitute one of the primary sources of cash for SVB Financial. The Bank is subject to various federal and state statutory and regulatory restrictions on its ability to pay dividends, including applicable provisions of the California Financial Code and the federal prompt corrective action regulations. For example, the Bank may not, without approval of the Federal Reserve, declare or pay a dividend to SVB Financial if the total of all dividends declared in a calendar year exceeds the total of (a) the Bank’s net income for that year and (b) its retained net income for the preceding two calendar years, less any required transfers to additional paid-in capital or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. In addition, the banking agencies have the authority to prohibit the Bank from paying dividends, depending upon the Bank’s financial condition, if such payment is deemed to constitute an unsafe or unsound practice.
14
Table of Contents
It is the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. It is also the Federal Reserve’s policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine their ability to be a source of strength to their banking subsidiaries. Under the prompt corrective action regulations, the Federal Reserve may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if the holding company’s bank subsidiary is classified as “undercapitalized.”
Transactions with Affiliates
Transactions between the Bank and its operating subsidiaries (such as SVB Asset Management or SVB Wealth Advisory), on the one hand, and the Bank’s affiliates (such as SVB Financial, SVB Leerink or an entity affiliated with our SVB Capital business), on the other, are subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions designed to limit the risks to the Bank and its subsidiaries, including Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Reserve’s Regulation W. These restrictions include quantitative and qualitative limits on the amounts and types of transactions with affiliates, including extensions of credit to affiliates, investments in the stock or securities of affiliates, purchases of assets from affiliates and certain other transactions with affiliates. In addition, credit transactions with affiliates must be collateralized, and transactions with affiliates must be on market terms or better for the Bank.
Premiums for Deposit Insurance
The FDIC insures our customer deposits through the DIF up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The FDIC has established a reserve ratio of 2% as a long-term goal, which goes beyond the statutorily mandated minimum of 1.35%, and may increase assessment rates in the future accordingly.
Consumer Regulations
The Bank is subject to many federal consumer protection statutes and regulations, such as the CRA, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (Regulation B), the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (Regulation E), the Truth in Lending Act (Regulation Z), the National Flood Insurance Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act (as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transaction Act) and various federal and state privacy protection laws. The Bank and SVB Financial are also subject to federal and state laws prohibiting unfair, deceptive, abusive, corrupt or fraudulent business practices, untrue or misleading advertising and unfair competition. As a depository institution with more than $10 billion in total assets, the Bank is subject to examination by the CFPB. The CFPB’s mandate is to promulgate consumer regulations and ensure that consumer financial practices at large banks, such as the Bank, comply with federal consumer financial protection requirements. The CFPB has broad enforcement authority, including investigations, civil actions, cease and desist proceedings and the ability to refer criminal findings to the Department of Justice. Penalties for violating these laws could include civil monetary penalties, remediation for affected consumers and reimbursements and orders to halt expansion or existing activities.
State and federal banking agencies and other such enforcement authorities have increased efforts to aggressively enforce consumer protection laws, implement regulations and take action against non-compliant parties.
Privacy and Cybersecurity
Data privacy and data protection are areas of increasing legislative focus. For example, the California Consumer Protection Act of 2018 (the “CCPA”), which became effective on January 1, 2020, applies to for-profit businesses that conduct business in California and meet certain revenue or data collection thresholds. The CCPA gives consumers the right to request disclosure of information collected about them, and whether that information has been sold or shared with others, the right to request deletion of personal information (subject to certain exceptions), the right to opt out of the sale of the consumer’s personal information, and the right not to be discriminated against for exercising these rights. The CCPA contains several exemptions, including an exemption applicable to information that is collected, processed, sold or disclosed pursuant to federal law. Such requirements will be further expanded under the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”) once it goes into effect on January 1, 2023. Similar laws have been and may be adopted by other states where we do business, and the federal government may also pass data privacy or data protection legislation. In addition, in the European Union, privacy law is governed by the General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”). The GDPR established enhanced compliance obligations and increased penalties for non-compliance compared to the prior law governing data privacy in the European Union.
In 2016, the federal banking agencies issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cyber risk management standards that are intended to increase the operational resilience of large and interconnected entities under their supervision and help reduce the potential impact of a cyber incident on the financial system. The proposed standards focus on five areas: (1) cyber risk governance; (2) cyber risk management; (3) internal dependency management; (4) external dependency management; and (5) incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. As of December 2020, the federal banking agencies have not issued further guidance on this issue.
In December 2020, the federal banking agencies released a notice of proposed rulemaking regarding notification requirements for banking organizations and bank service providers related to significant cybersecurity incidents. Under the
15
Table of Contents
proposal, among other requirements, a banking organization would be required to notify its primary banking regulator within 36 hours of a “computer-security incident” that it believes could impact its ability to carry out banking operations or deliver services to a material portion of its customer base, result in a material loss of revenue, profit, or franchise value, or impact the stability of the U.S. financial sector.
Anti-Money Laundering, Sanctions and Anti-Corruption Regulations
U.S. anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) and the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“PATRIOT Act”) and their corresponding regulations, require IDIs, broker-dealers, and certain other financial institutions to have policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist financing. The PATRIOT Act and its regulations also provide for information sharing, subject to certain conditions, between federal law enforcement agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial institutions, for counter-terrorism purposes. Additionally, federal banking regulators are required, when reviewing bank holding company acquisition and bank merger applications, to consider the effectiveness of the anti-money laundering activities of the applicants.
In January 2021, the Anti-Money Laundering Act of 2020 (“AMLA”), which amends the BSA, was enacted. The AMLA is intended to comprehensively reform and modernize U.S. anti-money laundering laws. Among other things, the AMLA codifies a risk-based approach to anti-money laundering compliance for financial institutions; requires the development of standards by the U.S. Department of the Treasury for evaluating technology and internal processes for BSA compliance; and expands enforcement- and investigation-related authority, including a significant expansion in the available sanctions for certain BSA violations. Many of the statutory provisions in the AMLA will require additional rulemakings, reports and other measures, and the impact of the AMLA will depend on, among other things, rulemaking and implementation guidance.
In addition, we must comply with economic sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control and targeted against designated foreign countries, nationals and others. We are also subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations in the United States and internationally, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, which impose strict prohibitions on payments and hiring practices with regard to government officials and employees.
Material deficiencies in compliance with anti-money laundering and anti-corruption rules and sanctions regimes can result in public enforcement actions by the bank regulatory agencies and other government agencies, including civil money penalties and supervisory restrictions on growth and expansion.
Regulation of Certain Subsidiaries and Regulatory Affiliates
SVB Leerink LLC, a subsidiary of SVB Leerink, and SVB Wealth Advisory, Inc., a subsidiary of the Bank, are each registered as broker-dealers with the SEC and are members of FINRA, and are subject to regulation by both agencies. They are also members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. SVB Asset Management, SVB Wealth Advisory and funds management entities associated with SVB Leerink Capital LLC, a subsidiary of SVB Leerink, are registered with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and are subject to its corresponding regulations.
SVB Leerink LLC and SVB Wealth Advisory must comply with the financial responsibility rules governing broker-dealers, including Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), which is designed to measure the general financial condition and liquidity of a broker-dealer and seek to ensure its financial stability in light of its activities. It is required to maintain minimum net capital levels, which could limit the ability for capital to be withdrawn or require a capital infusion to support growth in the business or new or ongoing activities.
In June 2019, the SEC adopted a rule that requires broker-dealers to act in the best interest of their customers and issued an interpretation clarifying the its views of the existing fiduciary duty owed by investment advisers to their clients. Additionally, the SEC adopted a rule that requires broker-dealers and investment advisers to provide a standardized, short-form disclosure highlighting services offered, applicable standards of conduct, fees and costs, the differences between brokerage and advisory services, and any conflicts of interest. Several states have also proposed uniform fiduciary duty standards for broker-dealers and advisers.
Further, the Company has oversight responsibilities with respect to the regulatory compliance of certain unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates, such as Vouch Inc. and Bolster Networks, Inc., that the Company may be deemed to control for purposes of the BHC Act.
Securities Registration and Listing
SVB Financial’s common stock, 5.250% Fixed-Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (“Series A Preferred Stock”), and depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th interest in a share of Series A Preferred Stock (“Series A Depositary Shares”), as well as Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”), and depositary shares, each representing a 1/100th interest in a share of Series B Preferred Stock (“Series B Depositary Shares”), are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. SVB Financial’s common stock and Series A Depositary Shares are
16
Table of Contents
also listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. As such, SVB Financial is subject to the SEC’s information, proxy solicitation, insider trading, corporate governance, and other public company requirements and restrictions as well as Nasdaq’s Marketplace Rules and other requirements.
As a public company, SVB Financial is also subject to the accounting oversight and corporate governance requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), including, among other things, required executive certification of financial presentations, increased requirements for board audit committees and their members, and enhanced requirements relating to disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting.
International Regulation
Our international-based subsidiaries and offices and global activities, including our banking branches in the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada and the Cayman Islands as well as our joint venture bank in China, are subject to the respective laws and regulations of those countries and the regions in which they operate. This includes laws and regulations promulgated by, but not limited to, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority in the United Kingdom, the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions in Canada, the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin), the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission, the Cayman Islands Monetary Authority and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. Pursuant to UK regulatory requirements, Silicon Valley Bank will need to restructure its UK branch into a full-service bank subsidiary when the branch reaches £100 million of insured small business deposits, which we currently expect will be sometime in 2022.
To the extent we are able to commence operations in any other international market, we will also become subject to the regulatory regimes of those jurisdictions. In jurisdictions where we do not currently have certain licenses or other regulatory authorizations, our activities may be limited. Moreover, promulgation by standard-setting bodies that are charged with the development of international regulatory frameworks, such as the Basel Committee, can affect the Bank and SVB Financial globally as national regulators implement the frameworks in local jurisdictions.
Available Information
We make available free of charge through our Internet website, http://www.svb.com, our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated herein by reference and the website address provided is intended to be an inactive textual reference only.