PART I
Safe Harbor
Statements in this document that are not historical facts, including statements that (i) are in the future tense; (ii) include the words “expects,” “plans,” “targets,” “estimates,” “believes,” “anticipates,” or similar words that reference Snap-on Incorporated (“Snap-on” or “the company”) or its management; (iii) are specifically identified as forward-looking; or (iv) describe Snap-on’s or management’s future outlook, plans, estimates, objectives or goals, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Snap-on cautions the reader that any forward-looking statements included in this document that are based upon assumptions and estimates were developed by management in good faith and are subject to risks, uncertainties or other factors that could cause (and in some cases have caused) actual results to differ materially from those described in any such statement. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results or regarded as a representation by the company or its management that the projected results will be achieved. For those forward-looking statements, Snap-on cautions the reader that numerous important factors, such as those listed below, as well as those factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly those in “Item 1A: Risk Factors,” could affect the company’s actual results and could cause its actual consolidated results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement made by, or on behalf of, Snap-on.
These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, uncertainties related to estimates, statements, assumptions and projections generally, and the timing and progress with which Snap-on can attain value through its Snap-on Value Creation Processes, including its ability to realize efficiencies and savings from its rapid continuous improvement and other cost reduction initiatives, improve workforce productivity, achieve improvements in the company’s manufacturing footprint and greater efficiencies in its supply chain, and enhance machine maintenance, plant productivity and manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, any or all of which could result in production inefficiencies, higher costs and/or lost revenues. These risks include the evolving impact and unknown duration of the coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic, which has the potential to amplify the impact of the other risks facing the company. These risks also include the impact of governmental actions related thereto on Snap-on’s business, as well as uncertainties related to Snap-on’s capability to implement future strategies with respect to its existing businesses, its ability to refine its brand and franchise strategies, retain and attract franchisees, further enhance service and value to franchisees and thereby help improve their sales and profitability, introduce successful new products, successfully pursue, complete and integrate acquisitions, as well as its ability to withstand disruption arising from natural disasters, planned facility closures or other labor interruptions, the effects of external negative factors, including adverse developments in world financial markets, developments related to tariffs and other trade issues or disputes, weakness in certain areas of the global economy (including as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union and the COVID-19 pandemic), and significant changes in the current competitive environment, inflation, interest rates and other monetary and market fluctuations, changes in tax rates, laws and regulations as well as uncertainty surrounding potential changes, and the impact of energy and raw material supply and pricing, including steel (as a result of U.S. tariffs imposed on certain steel imports or otherwise) and gasoline, the amount, rate and growth of Snap-on’s general and administrative expenses, including health care and postretirement costs (resulting from, among other matters, U.S. health care legislation and its ongoing implementation or reform), continuing and potentially increasing required contributions to pension and postretirement plans, the impacts of non-strategic business and/or product line rationalizations, and the effects on business as a result of new legislation, regulations or government-related developments or issues, risks associated with data security and technological systems and protections, potential reputational damages and costs related to litigation as well as an inability to assure that costs will be reduced or eliminated on appeal, the impact of changes in financial accounting standards, the ability to effectively manage human capital resources, and other world or local events outside Snap-on’s control, including terrorist disruptions, other outbreaks of infectious diseases and civil unrest. Snap-on disclaims any responsibility to update any forward-looking statement provided in this document, except as required by law.
In addition, investors should be aware that generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”) prescribe when a company should reserve for particular risks, including litigation exposures. Accordingly, results for a given reporting period could be significantly affected if and when a reserve is established for a major contingency. Reported results, therefore, may appear to be volatile in certain accounting periods.
Fiscal Year
Snap-on’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday that is on or nearest to December 31. Unless otherwise indicated, references in this document to “fiscal 2020” or “2020” refer to the fiscal year ended January 2, 2021; references to “fiscal 2019” or “2019” refer to the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019; and references to “fiscal 2018” or “2018” refer to the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. References in this document to 2020, 2019 and 2018 year end refer to January 2, 2021, December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018, respectively. Snap-on’s 2020 fiscal year contained 53 weeks of operating results with the extra week occurring in the fourth quarter. Snap-on’s 2019 and 2018 fiscal years each contained 52 weeks of operating results.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT	3 
 
Item 1: Business
Snap-on is a leading global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, equipment, diagnostics, repair information and systems solutions for professional users performing critical tasks. Products and services include hand and power tools, tool storage, diagnostics software, handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, information and management systems, shop equipment and other solutions for vehicle dealerships and repair centers, as well as for customers in industries, such as aviation and aerospace, agriculture, construction, government and military, mining, natural resources, power generation and technical education. Snap-on also derives income from various financing programs designed to facilitate the sales of its products and support its franchise business.
Snap-on markets its products and brands worldwide through multiple sales distribution channels in more than 130 countries. Snap-on’s largest geographic markets include the United States, Europe, Canada and Asia Pacific. Snap-on reaches its customers through the company’s franchised, company-direct, distributor and internet channels.
The company began with the development of the original Snap-on interchangeable socket set in 1920 and subsequently pioneered mobile tool distribution in the automotive repair market, where well-stocked vans sell to professional vehicle technicians at their place of business. Today, Snap-on defines its value proposition more broadly, extending its reach “beyond the garage” to deliver a broad array of unique solutions that make work easier for serious professionals performing critical tasks. The company’s “coherent growth” strategy focuses on developing and expanding its professional customer base in its legacy automotive market, as well as in adjacent markets, additional geographies and other areas, including in critical industries, where the cost and penalties for failure can be high. In addition to its coherent growth strategy, Snap-on is committed to its “Value Creation Processes” – a set of strategic principles and processes designed to create value and employed in the areas of (i) safety; (ii) quality; (iii) customer connection; (iv) innovation; and (v) rapid continuous improvement (“RCI”). Snap-on’s RCI initiatives employ a structured set of tools and processes across multiple businesses and geographies intended to eliminate waste and improve operations. Savings from Snap-on’s RCI initiatives reflect benefits from a wide variety of ongoing efficiency, productivity and process improvements, including savings generated from product design cost reductions, improved manufacturing line set-up and change-over practices, lower-cost sourcing initiatives and facility consolidations.
Snap-on’s primary customer segments include: (i) commercial and industrial customers, including professionals in critical industries and emerging markets; (ii) professional vehicle repair technicians who purchase products through the company’s mobile tool distribution network; and (iii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent and original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) dealership service and repair shops (“OEM dealerships”). Snap-on’s Financial Services customer segment includes: (i) franchisees’ customers, principally serving vehicle repair technicians, and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostics and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) franchisees who require financing options for vehicle and business needs.
Snap-on’s business segments are based on the organization structure used by management for making operating and investment decisions and for assessing performance. Snap-on’s reportable business segments are: (i) the Commercial & Industrial Group; (ii) the Snap-on Tools Group; (iii) the Repair Systems & Information Group; and (iv) Financial Services. The Commercial & Industrial Group consists of business operations serving a broad range of industrial and commercial customers worldwide, including customers in the aerospace, natural resources, government, power generation, transportation and technical education market segments (collectively, “critical industries”), primarily through direct and distributor channels. The Snap-on Tools Group consists of business operations primarily serving vehicle service and repair technicians through the company’s worldwide mobile tool distribution channel. The Repair Systems & Information Group consists of business operations serving other professional vehicle repair customers worldwide, primarily owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships, through direct and distributor channels. Financial Services consists of the business operations of Snap-on Credit LLC (“SOC”), the company’s financial services business in the United States, and Snap-on’s other financial services subsidiaries in those international markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. See Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information on business segments and foreign operations.
Snap-on evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenues, including both external and intersegment net sales, and segment operating earnings. Snap-on accounts for intersegment sales and transfers based primarily on standard costs with reasonable mark-ups established between the segments. Identifiable assets by segment are those assets used in the respective reportable segment’s operations. Corporate assets consist of cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash held at Financial Services), deferred income taxes and certain other assets. Intersegment amounts are eliminated to arrive at Snap-on’s consolidated financial results.
4
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED	 
 
Recent Acquisitions
Snap-on has continued to expand its business throughout the years via acquisitions. Below are acquisitions completed in the last three fiscal years:
On September 28, 2020, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of AutoCrib, Inc. (“AutoCrib”) for a cash purchase price of $35.4 million. AutoCrib, based in Tustin, California, designs, manufactures and markets asset and tool control solutions. The acquisition of AutoCrib complemented and expanded Snap-on’s existing tool control offering to customers in a variety of industrial applications, including aerospace, automotive, military, natural resources and general industry.
On January 31, 2020, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets related to the TreadReader product line from Sigmavision Limited (“Sigmavision”) for a cash purchase price of $5.9 million. Sigmavision designs and manufactures handheld devices and drive-over ramps that provide tire information for use in the automotive industry. The acquisition of the TreadReader product line enhanced and expanded Snap-on’s existing capabilities in serving vehicle repair facilities and expanded the company’s presence with repair shop owners and managers.
On August 7, 2019, Snap-on acquired Cognitran Limited (“Cognitran”) for a cash purchase price of $30.6 million (or $29.6 million, net of cash acquired). Cognitran, based in Chelmsford, U.K., specializes in flexible, modular and highly scalable “Software as a Service” (SaaS) products for OEM customers and their dealers, focused on the creation and delivery of service, diagnostics, parts and repair information to the OEM dealers and connected vehicle platforms. The acquisition of Cognitran enhanced and expanded Snap-on’s capabilities in providing shop efficiency solutions through integrated upstream services to OEM customers in automotive, heavy duty, agricultural and recreational applications.
On April 2, 2019, Snap-on acquired Power Hawk Technologies, Inc. (“Power Hawk”) for a cash purchase price of $7.9 million. Power Hawk, based in Rockaway, New Jersey, designs, manufactures and distributes rescue tools and related equipment for a variety of military, governmental, fire and rescue, and emergency operations. The acquisition of the Power Hawk product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing product offering and broadened its established capabilities in serving critical industries.
On January 25, 2019, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of TMB GeoMarketing Limited (“TMB”) for a cash purchase price of $1.3 million. TMB, based in Dorking, U.K., designs planning software used by OEMs to optimize dealer locations and manage the performance of dealer outlets. The acquisition of TMB extended Snap-on’s product line in its core dealer network solutions business.
On January 31, 2018, Snap-on acquired substantially all of the assets of George A. Sturdevant, Inc. (d/b/a Fastorq) for a cash purchase price of $3.0 million. Fastorq, based in New Caney, Texas, designs, assembles and distributes hydraulic torque and hydraulic tensioning products for use in critical industries. The acquisition of the Fastorq product line complemented and increased Snap-on’s existing torque product offering and broadened its established capabilities in serving in critical industries.
For segment reporting purposes, the results of operations and assets of Sigmavision, Cognitran and TMB have been included in the Repair Systems & Information Group since the respective acquisition dates, and the results of operations and assets of AutoCrib, Power Hawk and Fastorq have been included in the Commercial & Industrial Group since the respective acquisition dates.
Pro forma financial information has not been presented for any of these acquisitions as the net effects, individually and collectively, were neither significant nor material to Snap-on’s results of operations or financial position.
Information Available on the Company’s Website
Additional information regarding Snap-on and its products is available on the company’s website at www.snapon.com. Snap-on is not including the information contained on its website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Snap-on’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Proxy Statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as well as any amendments to those reports, are made available to the public at no charge through the Investors section of the company’s website at www.snapon.com. Snap-on makes such material available on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Copies of any materials the company files with the SEC can also be obtained free of charge through the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov. In addition, Snap-on’s (i) charters for the Audit, Corporate Governance and Nominating, and Organization and Executive Compensation Committees of the company’s Board of Directors; (ii) Corporate Governance Guidelines; and (iii) Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are available on the company’s website. Snap-on will also post any amendments to these documents, or information about any waivers granted to directors or executive officers with respect to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, on the company’s website at www.snapon.com.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT	
5
 
 
Products and Services
Tools; Diagnostics, Information and Management Systems; and Equipment
Snap-on offers a broad line of products and complementary services that are grouped into three product categories: (i) tools; (ii) diagnostics, information and management systems; and (iii) equipment. Further product line information is not presented as it is not practicable to do so. The following table shows the consolidated net sales of these product categories for the last three years:
 		Net Sales	(Amounts in millions)		2020		2019		2018	Product Category:							Tools		$	1,984.7 			$	2,017.5 			$	2,021.2 		Diagnostics, information and management systems		783.8 			827.5 			797.9 		Equipment		824.0 			885.0 			921.6 				$	3,592.5 			$	3,730.0 			$	3,740.7 	 
The tools product category includes hand tools, power tools, tool storage products and other similar products. Hand tools include wrenches, sockets, ratchet wrenches, pliers, screwdrivers, punches and chisels, saws and cutting tools, pruning tools, torque measuring instruments and other similar products. Power tools include cordless (battery), pneumatic (air), hydraulic and corded (electric) tools, such as impact wrenches, ratchets, screwdrivers, drills, sanders, grinders and similar products. Tool storage includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar products. For many industrial customers, Snap-on creates specific, engineered solutions, including facility-level tool control and asset management hardware and software, custom kits in a wide range of configurations, and custom-built tools designed to meet customer requirements. The majority of products are manufactured by Snap-on and, in completing the product offering, other items are purchased from external manufacturers.
The diagnostics, information and management systems product category includes handheld and PC-based diagnostic products, service and repair information products, diagnostic software solutions, electronic parts catalogs, business management systems and services, point-of-sale systems, integrated systems for vehicle service shops, OEM purchasing facilitation services, and warranty management systems and analytics to help OEM dealerships manage and track performance.
The equipment product category includes solutions for the service of vehicles and industrial equipment. Products include wheel alignment equipment, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, test lane equipment, collision repair equipment, vehicle air conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, fluid exchange equipment, transmission troubleshooting equipment, safety testing equipment, battery chargers and hoists.
Snap-on supports the sale of its diagnostics and vehicle service shop equipment by offering training programs as well as after-sales support for its customers, primarily focusing on the technologies and the application of specific products developed and marketed by Snap-on.




6
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED	 
 
Products are marketed under a number of brand names and trademarks, many of which are well known in the vehicle service and industrial markets served. Some of the major trade names and trademarks and the products and services with which they are associated include the following:
Names	  	Products and Services			Snap-on	  	Hand tools, power tools, tool storage products (including tool control software and hardware), diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories, mobile tool stores, websites, electronic parts catalogs, warranty analytics solutions, business management systems and services, OEM specialty tools and equipment development and distribution, and OEM facilitation services			ATI	  	Aircraft hand tools and machine tools			AutoCrib		Asset and tool control systems				autoVHC	  	Vehicle inspection and training services			BAHCO	  	Saw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage, including tool control systems			Blackhawk	  	Collision repair equipment			Blue-Point	  	Hand tools, power tools, tool storage, diagnostics, certain equipment and related accessories			Cartec	  	Safety testing, brake testers, test lane equipment, dynamometers, suspension testers, emission testers and other equipment			Car-O-Liner	  	Collision repair equipment, and information and truck alignment systems			CDI	  	Torque tools			Challenger	  	Vehicle lifts			Cognitran		OEM SaaS products				Ecotechnics	  	Vehicle air conditioning service equipment			Fastorq		Hydraulic torque and tensioning products			Fish and Hook	  	Saw blades, cutting tools, pruning tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage			Hofmann	  	Wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment			Irimo	  	Saw blades, cutting tools, hand tools, power tools and tool storage			John Bean	  	Wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, brake testers and test lane equipment			Josam	  	Heavy duty alignment and collision repair solutions			Lindström	  	Hand tools			Mitchell1	  	Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services			Nexiq	  	Diagnostic tools, information and program distributions for fleet and heavy duty equipment			Norbar	  	Torque tools			Power Hawk		Rescue tools and related equipment for military, government, fire and rescue				Pro-Cut		Brake service equipment and accessories			Sandflex	  	Hacksaw blades, bandsaws, saw blades, hole saws and reciprocating saw blades			ShopKey	  	Repair and service information, shop management systems and business services			Sioux	  	Power tools			Sturtevant Richmont	  	Torque tools			Sun	  	Diagnostic tools, wheel balancers, vehicle lifts, tire changers, wheel aligners, air conditioning products and emission testers			TreadReader		Automotive tire drive-over ramps and handheld devices				TruckCam	  	Commercial vehicle OEM factory solutions			Williams	  	Hand tools, tool storage, certain equipment and related accessories 

2020 ANNUAL REPORT	
7
 
 
Financial Services
Snap-on also generates revenue from various financing programs that include: (i) installment sales and lease contracts arising from franchisees’ customers and Snap-on customers who require financing for the purchase or lease of tools and diagnostic and equipment products on an extended-term payment plan; and (ii) business and vehicle loans and leases to franchisees. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing source is solely by election of the customer. When assessing customers for potential financing, Snap-on considers various factors regarding ability to pay, including the customers’ financial condition, debt-servicing ability, past payment experience, and credit bureau and proprietary Snap-on credit model information, as well as the value of the underlying collateral.
Snap-on offers financing through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries in most markets where Snap-on has franchise operations. Financing revenue from contract originations is recognized over the life of the underlying contracts, with interest or finance charges computed primarily on the average daily balances of the underlying contracts.
Markets
Sales and Distribution
Snap-on markets and distributes its products and related services principally to professional tool and equipment users around the world. The two largest market sectors are the vehicle service and repair sector and the industrial sector.
Vehicle Service and Repair Sector
The vehicle service and repair sector has three main customer groups: (i) professional technicians who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use in their work; (ii) other professional customers related to vehicle repair, including owners and managers of independent repair shops and OEM dealerships who purchase tools and diagnostic and equipment products for use by multiple technicians within a service or repair facility; and (iii) OEMs.
Snap-on provides innovative tool, equipment and business solutions, as well as technical sales support and training, designed to meet technicians’ evolving needs. Snap-on’s mobile tool distribution system offers technicians the convenience of purchasing quality tools at their place of business with minimal disruption of their work routine. Snap-on also provides owners and managers of repair shops, where technicians work, with tools, diagnostic equipment, and repair and service information, including electronic parts catalogs and shop management products. Snap-on’s OEM facilitation business provides OEMs with products and services including special and essential tools as well as consulting and facilitation services, which include product procurement, distribution and administrative support to customers for their dealership equipment programs.
The vehicle service and repair sector is characterized by an increasing rate of technological change within motor vehicles, vehicle population growth and increasing vehicle life, and the resulting effects of these changes on the businesses of both our suppliers and customers. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the vehicle service and repair market sector.
Industrial Sector
Snap-on markets its products and services globally to a broad cross-section of commercial and industrial customers, including maintenance and repair operations; manufacturing and assembly facilities; various government agencies, facilities and operations, including military operations; schools with vocational and technical programs; aviation and aerospace operations; oil and gas developers; mining operations; energy and power generation operations; equipment fabricators and operators; railroad manufacturing and maintenance; customers in agriculture; infrastructure construction companies; and other customers that require instrumentation, service tools and/or equipment for their products and business needs. The industrial sector for Snap-on focuses on providing value-added products and services to an increasingly expanding global base of customers in critical industries.
The industrial sector is characterized by a highly competitive environment with multiple suppliers offering either a full line or industry specific portfolios for tools and equipment. Industrial customers increasingly require specialized solutions that provide repeatability and reliability in performing tasks of consequence that are specific to the particular end market in which they operate. Snap-on believes it is a meaningful participant in the industrial tools and equipment market sector.
Distribution Channels
Snap-on serves customers primarily through the following channels of distribution: (i) the mobile van channel; (ii) company direct sales; (iii) distributors; and (iv) e-commerce. The following discussion summarizes Snap-on’s general approach for each channel and is not intended to be all-inclusive.
8
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED	 
 
Mobile Van Channel
In the United States, a significant portion of sales to the vehicle service and repair sector is conducted through Snap-on’s mobile franchise van channel. Snap-on’s franchisees primarily serve vehicle repair technicians and vehicle service shop owners, generally providing weekly contact at the customer’s place of business. Franchisees’ sales are concentrated in hand and power tools, tool storage products, shop equipment, and diagnostic and repair information products, which can be transported in a van or trailer and demonstrated during a sales call. Franchisees purchase Snap-on’s products at a discount from suggested list prices and resell them at prices established by the franchisee. U.S. franchisees are provided a list of calls that serves as the basis of the franchisee’s sales route. Snap-on’s franchisees also have the opportunity to add a limited number of additional franchises.
Snap-on charges nominal initial and ongoing monthly franchise fees. Franchise fee revenue, including nominal, non-refundable initial and ongoing monthly fees (primarily for sales and business training, marketing and product promotion programs, and technology support), is recognized as the fees are earned. Franchise fee revenue totaled $16.2 million, $15.4 million and $16.2 million in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Snap-on also has a company-owned route program that is designed to: (i) provide another pool of potential field organization personnel; (ii) service customers in select new and/or open routes not currently serviced by franchisees; and (iii) allow Snap-on to pilot new sales and promotional ideas prior to introducing them to franchisees. As of 2020 year end, company-owned routes comprised approximately 4% of the total route population. Snap-on may elect to increase or reduce the number of company-owned routes in the future.
In addition to its mobile van channel in the United States, Snap-on has franchise distribution models in certain other countries, including Canada, the United Kingdom, Japan, Australia, Germany, Netherlands, South Africa, New Zealand, Belgium and Ireland. In many of these markets, as in the United States, purchase decisions are generally made or influenced by professional vehicle service technicians as well as repair shop owners and managers. As of 2020 year end, Snap-on’s worldwide route count was approximately 4,775, including approximately 3,425 routes in the United States.
Through SOC, financing is available to U.S. franchisees, including financing for van leases, working capital loans and loans to help enable new franchisees to fund the purchase of the franchise or the expansion of an existing franchise. In many international markets, Snap-on offers a variety of financing options to its franchisees and/or customer networks through its international finance subsidiaries. The decision to finance through Snap-on or another financing source is solely at the customer’s election.
Snap-on supports its franchisees with a field organization of regional offices, franchise performance teams, customer care centers and distribution centers. Snap-on also provides sales and business training, and marketing and product promotion programs, as well as customer and franchisee financing programs through SOC and the company’s international finance subsidiaries, all of which are designed to strengthen franchisee sales. National Franchise Advisory Councils in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia, composed primarily of franchisees that are elected by franchisees, assist Snap-on in identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.
Company Direct Sales
A significant proportion of shop equipment sales in North America under the John Bean, Hofmann, Blackhawk, Car-O-Liner, Challenger and Pro-Cut brands, diagnostic products under the Snap-on brand, and information and shop management products under the Mitchell1 brand are made by direct and independent sales forces that have responsibility for national and other accounts. As the vehicle service and repair sector consolidates (with more business conducted by national chains and franchised service centers), Snap-on believes these larger organizations can be serviced most effectively by sales people who can demonstrate and sell the full line of diagnostic and equipment products and services. Snap-on also sells these products and services directly to OEMs and their franchised dealers.
Snap-on brand tools and equipment are marketed to industrial and governmental customers worldwide through both industrial sales associates and independent distributors. Selling activities focus on industrial customers whose main purchase criteria are quality and integrated solutions. As of 2020 year end, Snap-on had industrial sales associates and independent distributors primarily in the United States, Canada and in various European, Latin American, Middle Eastern, Asian and African countries, with the United States representing the majority of Snap-on’s total industrial sales.
Snap-on also sells software, services and solutions to the automotive, commercial, heavy duty, agriculture, power equipment and power sports segments. Products and services are marketed to targeted groups, including OEMs and their dealerships, fleets and individual repair shops. To effectively reach OEMs, which frequently have a multi-national presence, Snap-on has deployed focused business teams globally.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT	
9
 
 
Distributors
Sales of certain tools and equipment are made through independent distributors who purchase the items from Snap-on and resell them to end users. Hand tools sold under the BAHCO, Irimo, Lindström, CDI, ATI, Fastorq, Norbar, Sioux, Sturtevant Richmont and Williams brands and trade names, for example, are sold through distributors worldwide. Wheel service and other vehicle service equipment are sold through distributors primarily under brands including Hofmann, John Bean, Car-O-Liner, Challenger, Pro-Cut, Cartec, Blackhawk and Ecotechnics. Diagnostic and equipment products are marketed through distributors in South America and Asia, and through both a direct sales force and distributors in Europe under the Snap-on, Sun and Blue-Point brands.
E-commerce
Snap-on offers current and prospective customers online access to research and purchase products through its public website, www.snapon.com. The site features an online catalog of Snap-on hand tools, power tools, tool storage units and diagnostic equipment available to customers in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia. E-commerce and certain other system enhancement initiatives are designed to improve productivity and further leverage the one-on-one relationships and service Snap-on has with its current and prospective customers. Sales through the company’s e-commerce distribution channel were not significant in any of the last three years.
Competition
Snap-on competes on the basis of its product quality and performance, product line breadth and depth, service, brand awareness and imagery, technological innovation and availability of financing (through SOC or its international finance subsidiaries). While Snap-on does not believe that any single company competes with it across all of its product lines and distribution channels, various companies compete in one or more product categories and/or distribution channels.
Snap-on believes it is a leading manufacturer and distributor of professional tools, tool storage, diagnostic and equipment products, and repair software and solutions, offering a broad line of these products to both vehicle service and industrial marketplaces. Various competitors target and sell to professional technicians in the vehicle service and repair sector through the mobile tool distribution channel. Snap-on also competes with companies that sell tools and equipment to vehicle service and repair technicians online and through retail stores, vehicle parts supply outlets and tool supply warehouses/distributorships. Within the power tools category and the industrial sector, Snap-on has various other competitors, including companies with offerings that overlap with other areas discussed herein. Major competitors selling diagnostics, shop equipment and information to vehicle dealerships and independent repair shops include OEMs and their proprietary electronic parts catalogs and diagnostics and information systems, and other companies that offer products serving this sector.
Resources
Raw Materials and Purchased Product
Snap-on’s supply of raw materials and purchased components are generally and readily available from numerous suppliers. Snap-on believes it has secured an ample supply of both bar and coil steel for the near future to ensure stable supply to meet material demands. The company does not currently anticipate experiencing any significant impact in 2021 from steel pricing or availability issues, though it is continuing to monitor the impact of tariffs and other trade protection measures put in place by the U.S. and other countries.

Patents, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property
Snap-on vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect its intellectual property and position in its markets. As of 2020 year end, Snap-on and its subsidiaries held approximately 800 active and pending patents in the United States and approximately 2,350 active and pending patents outside of the United States. Sales relating to any single patent did not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s revenues in any of the last three years.
Examples of products that have features or designs that benefit from patent protection include hand tools (including sealed ratchets and ratcheting screwdrivers), power tools, wheel alignment systems, wheel balancers, tire changers, vehicle lifts, tool storage, tool control, collision measurement, test lane equipment, brake lathes, electronic torque instruments, emissions-sensing devices and diagnostic equipment.
Much of the technology used in the manufacture of vehicle service tools and equipment is in the public domain. Snap-on relies primarily on trade secret protection for proprietary processes used in manufacturing. Methods and processes are patented when appropriate. Copyright protection is also utilized when appropriate.
10
SNAP-ON INCORPORATED	 
 
Trademarks used by Snap-on are of continuing importance in the marketplace. Trademarks have been registered in the United States and many other countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending. Snap-on vigorously polices proper use of its trademarks. Snap-on’s right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent upon licenses from others; however, these products under license do not represent a material portion of Snap-on’s net sales.
Domain names are a valuable corporate asset for companies around the world, including Snap-on. Domain names often contain a trademark or service mark or even a corporate name and are often considered intellectual property. The recognition and value of the Snap-on name, trademark and domain name are core strengths of the company.
Snap-on strategically licenses the Snap-on brand to carefully selected manufacturing and distribution companies for items such as apparel and a variety of other goods, in order to further build brand awareness and market presence for the company’s strongest brand.
Environmental and Government Regulations
Snap-on is subject to various environmental laws, ordinances, regulations, and requirements of government authorities in the United States and other nations. At Snap-on, these environmental liabilities are managed through the Snap-on Environmental, Health and Safety Management System (“EH & SMS”), which is applied worldwide. The system is based upon continual improvement and is certified to ISO 14001:2015 and OHSAS 18001:2007, verified through Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification, Inc.
Snap-on believes that it complies with applicable environmental and government requirements in its operations. Expenditures on environmental and governmental matters through EH & SMS have not had, and Snap-on does not for the foreseeable future expect them to have, a material effect upon Snap-on’s capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
Human Capital Management
As of January 2, 2021, Snap-on employed approximately 12,300 people worldwide, of which approximately 6,800 were employed in the United States and approximately 5,500 were outside the United States. Approximately 2,600 employees are represented by unions and/or covered under collective bargaining agreements with varying expiration dates through 2023. In recent years, Snap-on has not experienced any significant work slowdowns, stoppages or other labor disruptions.

Snap-on is guided by the beliefs and values in the company’s “Who We Are” mission statement and strives to be the “employer of choice” for its current and future associates. Furthermore, through our Snap-on Value Creation Processes, a suite of principles we use every day, the company remains committed to the areas of safety, quality, customer connection, innovation and RCI, which are closely linked to and contribute to improving employee engagement, productivity, and efficiency.

Successful execution of our way forward is dependent on attracting, developing and retaining key employees and members of our management team, which we achieve through the following:

•Snap-on believes strongly in work place safety. As a permanent priority agenda item at all operational meetings, safety comes first. Snap-on strives to maintain a safe workplace and expects its employees to broadly embrace the company’s safety programs. Snap-on invests in its strong safety culture and in elevating the importance of worker safety throughout all levels of the organization. For 2020, Snap-on had an overall safety incident rate of 0.85 (number of injuries and illnesses multiplied by 200,000, divided by hours worked).

•Snap-on is committed to its employees and provides developmental opportunities, as well as competitive pay and benefits. Leadership reviews to identify high potential talent in the organization are conducted on an ongoing basis with all business units and on an annual basis with the Board of Directors. Snap-on offers pension, postretirement and stock-based compensation as well as other stock plans, including an employee stock purchase plan for associates in the United States and Canada. Additional information related to these plans is included in Notes 12, 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other benefits, including skill training and tuition assistance programs, are available to employees, but vary from location to location.

•Snap-on’s people and the behaviors they display define our success, including integrity, respect and teamwork. Annual employee training is used to reinforce ethics, environmental matters, health and safety, and regulatory compliance.
2020 ANNUAL REPORT	
11
 
 
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Snap-on has generally maintained its headcount as the company accommodated its operations to the virus environment. Snap-on has taken what it believes to be appropriate measures to ensure the health and safety of its personnel, including enhancing cleaning protocols, providing protective equipment, permitting remote work and providing wages for quarantined associates. Snap-on also provided direct assistance to its franchisees as they accommodated the turbulence caused by the virus to enable continued service to their essential technician customers. Refer to the “Impact of the COVID-19” included in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for additional information on actions taken by the company in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Social Responsibility

Snap-on is committed to conducting business and making decisions honestly, ethically, fairly and within the law, and is guided by the company’s mission statement. Snap-on is dedicated to earning and keeping the trust and confidence of its shareholders, customers, franchisees, distributors, retirees and associates, as well as of the communities where the company does business. Snap-on’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides guidelines and a framework for conducting business in an ethical manner. These beliefs go beyond Snap-on and are expected of our suppliers as detailed in the company’s Supplier Code of Conduct. Snap-on has adopted policies that seek to eliminate human trafficking, slavery, forced labor and child labor from its global supply chain.

Snap-on’s sustainability framework is focused on key areas impacting our industry, including energy management, employee health and safety, and material management, and is aligned with the guidelines of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB). Snap-on’s sustainability metrics are available on the company’s website at www.snapon.com.
Customers and Seasonality
Snap-on does not have any single customer or government on which its business was substantially dependent in any of the indicated periods. Most of Snap-on’s businesses are not seasonal and their inventory needs are relatively constant.