 Item 1.     Business
Company and Segment Overview

Synopsys, Inc. provides products and services used across the entire Silicon to Software™ spectrum to bring Smart Everything to life. From engineers creating advanced semiconductors to product teams developing advanced electronic systems to software developers seeking to ensure the security and quality of their code, our customers trust that our technologies will enable them to meet new requirements for low power as well as reliability, mobility, and security.

We are a global leader in supplying the electronic design automation (EDA) software that engineers use to design and test integrated circuits (ICs), also known as chips. We also offer semiconductor intellectual property (IP) products, which are pre-designed circuits that engineers use as components of larger chip designs rather than designing those circuits themselves. We provide software and hardware used to validate the electronic systems that incorporate chips and the software that runs on them. To complement these offerings, we provide technical services and support to help our customers develop advanced chips and electronic systems. These products and services are part of our Semiconductor & System Design segment.
 
We are also a leading provider of software tools and services that improve the security, quality and compliance of software in a wide variety of industries, including electronics, financial services, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials. These tools and services are part of our Software Integrity segment.
Corporate Information

We incorporated in 1986 in North Carolina and reincorporated in 1987 in Delaware. Our headquarters are located at 690 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, and our headquarters’ telephone number is (650) 584-5000. We have approximately 120 offices worldwide.

Our annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q (including related filings in XBRL format), current reports on Form 8-K, and Proxy Statements relating to our annual meetings of stockholders (including any amendments to these reports, as well as filings made by our executive officers and directors) are available through the Investor Relations page of our website (www.synopsys.com) free of charge as soon as practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC (www.sec.gov). We use our Investor Relations page as a routine channel for distribution of important information, including news releases, investor presentations, and financial information. The contents of our website are not part of this Form 10-K.
Background

In this era of Smart Everything, we have seen a remarkable proliferation of consumer and wireless electronic products, particularly mobile devices. The growth of the Internet and cloud computing has provided people with new ways to create, store, and share information. At the same time, the increasing use of electronics in cars, buildings, appliances, and other consumer products is creating a connected landscape of smart devices. Numerous software applications (apps) have been developed to expand the potential of these connected devices. The increasing impact of artificial intelligence and machine learning is driving an increase in the activity of new and existing chip and system design companies around the world.

These developments have been fueled by innovation in the semiconductor and software industries. It is now common for a single chip to combine many components (processor, communications, memory, custom logic, input/output) and embedded software into a single system-on-chip (SoC), necessitating highly complex chip designs. The most complex chips today contain more than a billion transistors. Transistors are the basic building blocks for ICs, each of which may have features that are less than 1/1,000th the diameter of a human hair. At such small dimensions, the wavelength of light itself can become an obstacle to production, proving too big to create such dense features and requiring creative and complicated new approaches from designers. Designers have turned to new manufacturing techniques to solve these problems, such as multiple-patterning lithography and FinFET transistors, which in turn have introduced new challenges to design and production.


3
Table of Contents

The popularity of mobile devices and other electronic products has increased demand for chips and systems with greater functionality and performance, reduced size, and lower power consumption. Our customers, who design those products, are facing intense pressure to deliver innovative offerings in shorter timeframes and at lower prices. In other words, innovation in chip and system design often hinges on providing products “better,” “sooner,” and “cheaper” than competitors. The designs of these chips and systems are extremely complex and necessitate state-of-the-art design solutions. Over the past several years, market verticals including AI, 5G, automotive and cloud computing infrastructure have contributed to ongoing demand for our products and services.

A similar dynamic is at work in the software arena, whether embedded on a chip or as a standalone. The pace of innovation often requires developers to deliver more secure, high-quality software, which can include millions of lines of code, in increasingly frequent release cycles. Bugs, defects, and security vulnerabilities in code can be difficult to detect and expensive to fix. But, at a time when software is critical in many industries across a growing array of smart devices, it is crucial to have high-quality, secure code to ensure consumers’ privacy and safety.
Our Role—As the Silicon to Software Partner

Synopsys' Silicon to Software technologies and services are designed to help our customers—chip and system engineers and software developers—to speed time to market, achieve the highest quality of results, mitigate risk, and maximize profitability.

Chip and system designers must determine how best to design, locate, and connect the building blocks of chips, and to verify that the resulting design behaves as intended and can be manufactured efficiently and cost-effectively. This is a complex, multi-step process that is both expensive and time-consuming. Our wide range of products help designers at different steps in the overall design process, from the design of individual ICs to the design of larger systems. Our products increase designer productivity and efficiency by automating tasks, keeping track of large amounts of design data, adding intelligence to the design process, facilitating reuse of past designs, and reducing errors. Our IP products offer proven, high-quality pre-configured circuits that are ready to use in a chip design, saving customers time and enabling them to direct resources to features that differentiate their products. Our global service and support engineers also provide expert technical support and design assistance to our customers.

Software developers are responsible for writing code that not only accomplishes their goals as efficiently as possible, but also runs securely and is free of defects. We offer products that can help developers write higher quality, more secure code by analyzing their code for quality defects and known security vulnerabilities, adding intelligence and automation to the software testing process, and helping to eliminate defects in a systematic manner. To the extent that developers make use of open source software in their code, our products can help developers better manage the composition and security of the code. Our products enable software developers to catch flaws earlier in the development cycle, when they are less costly to fix.
Products and Services
Semiconductor & System Design Segment

Our Semiconductor & System Design segment includes the EDA, IP and System Integration and Other revenue categories.

EDA

Designing ICs involves many complex steps: architecture definition, register transfer level (RTL) design, functional/RTL verification, logic design or synthesis, gate-level verification, floorplanning, place and route, and physical verification, to name just a few. Designers use our EDA products to automate the IC design process, reduce errors, and enable more powerful and robust designs. Our platforms comprehensively address the process, featuring a large number of EDA products that generally fall into the following categories:
•
Digital and custom IC design and field programmable gate array (FPGA) design, which includes software tools to design an IC;
•
Verification, which includes technology to verify that an IC design behaves as intended; and
•
Manufacturing, which includes products that both enable early manufacturing process development and convert IC design layouts into the masks used to manufacture the chips.

4
Table of Contents

Digital and Custom IC Design

Our Fusion Design Platform™ provides customers with a comprehensive digital design implementation solution that includes industry-leading products and redefines conventional design tool boundaries to deliver a more integrated flow than ever before, with better quality and time to results. The platform gives designers the flexibility to integrate internally developed tools as well as those from third parties. With innovative technologies, a common foundation, and flexibility, our Fusion Design Platform helps reduce design times, decrease uncertainties in the design steps, and minimize the risks inherent in advanced, complex IC design. The platform supports multiple technology nodes, including advanced nodes at 12nm, 10nm, 8/7nm, 6 nm, 5/4nm, and 3nm, with technology collaborations on next-generation process technologies.

Key design products, available as part of the Fusion Design Platform, include Fusion Compiler™ RTL to GDSII design implementation, Design Compiler® logic synthesis, IC Compiler™ II physical design, Synopsys TestMAXTM test and diagnosis, PrimeTime® static timing analysis, StarRC™ parasitic extraction, and IC Validator physical verification. In 2020, we launched two new solutions to address some of the most pressing challenges facing the industry. 3DIC Compiler is the industry’s first next-generation chip packaging solution, aimed at enabling customers to combine or stack multiple dice on a single chip. Our new DSO.ai™ solution utilizes artificial intelligence to autonomously learn from the process of IC design and further enable design teams to more efficiently reach design targets (performance, power, and area).

Our Custom Design Platform™ is a unified suite of design and verification tools that accelerates the transistor-level design of robust analog, mixed-signal, and custom-digital ICs. The platform features visually assisted layout automation, high-performance circuit simulation, reliability-aware verification, and natively integrated StarRC™ extraction and physical verification. Platform tools include HSPICE® and FineSim® SPICE circuit simulators, CustomSim™ FastSPICE, Custom Compiler layout and schematic editor, StarRC parasitic extraction, and IC Validator physical verification.

Our Silicon Lifecycle Management Platform is a new data analytics-driven platform that uses on-chip monitor and sensor data to optimize all phases of the silicon lifecycle—from design and manufacturing to in-field deployment and maintenance. This platform currently includes the PrimeShield™ design robustness solution, the SiliconDash data analytics engine, Yield Explorer® design yield analysis, and process, voltage and temperature sensors, with additional capabilities to be rolled out over time.
FPGA Design

FPGAs are complex chips that can be customized or programmed to perform a specific function after they are manufactured. For FPGA design, we offer Synplify® (Pro® and Premier) implementation and Identify® debug software tools.
Verification

Our Verification Continuum® platform is built from our industry-leading and fastest verification technologies, providing virtual prototyping, static and formal verification, simulation, emulation, FPGA-based prototyping, and debug in a unified environment with verification IP, planning, and coverage technology. By providing consistent compile, runtime and debug environments across the flow of verification tasks and by enabling seamless transitions across functions, the platform helps our customers accelerate chip verification, bring up software earlier, and get to market sooner with advanced SoCs.

The individual products included in the Verification Continuum platform are reported in our EDA and IP and System Integration revenue categories. The solutions reported in our EDA revenue include the following:
•
VC SpyGlass™ family of static verification technologies including lint, CDC (clock domain crossing), RDC (reset domain crossing), Constraint Checking, Synopsys TestMAX Advisor, and low-power analysis and verification;
•
VCS® functional verification solution, our comprehensive RTL and gate-level simulation technology, including Fine-Grained Parallelism (FGP);
•
Verdi® automated debug system, the industry’s most comprehensive SoC debug;
•
VC Formal™, our next-generation formal verification product;

5
Table of Contents

•
ZeBu® emulation systems, which use high-performance hardware to emulate SoC designs so that designers can accelerate verification of large complex SoCs and perform earlier verification of the SoC together with software; and
•
Other principal individual verification solutions, including CustomSim™, FastSPICE and FineSim® SPICE/FastSPICE circuit simulation and analysis products, HSPICE® circuit simulator, and CustomExplorer™ Ultra mixed-signal regression and analysis environment.

The verification IP, virtual prototyping, and FPGA-based prototyping solutions that are part of our Verification Continuum platform are included in our IP and System Integration category and further described below.
Manufacturing

Our Manufacturing Solutions include Sentaurus™ technology computer-aided design (TCAD) device and process simulation products, Proteus™ mask synthesis tools, CATS® mask data preparation software, Yield Explorer® Odyssey, and Yield-Manager® yield management solutions.

We also provide consulting and design services that address all phases of the SoC development process, as well as a broad range of expert training and workshops on our latest tools and methodologies.
IP and System Integration
IP Products

As more functionality converges into a single device or even a single chip, and as chip designs grow more complex, the number of third-party IP blocks incorporated into designs is rapidly increasing. We provide the largest and broadest portfolio of high-quality, silicon-proven IP solutions for SoCs. Our broad DesignWare IP portfolio includes:
•
High-quality solutions for widely used wired and wireless interfaces such as USB, PCI Express, DDR, Ethernet, SATA, MIPI, HDMI, and Bluetooth Low Energy;
•
Logic libraries and embedded memories, including memory compilers, non-volatile memory, standard cells, and integrated test and repair;
•
Processor solutions, including configurable ARC® processor cores, software, Embedded Vision processor cores and application-specific instruction-set processor (ASIP) tools for embedded applications;
•
IP subsystems for audio, sensor, and data fusion functionality that combine IP blocks, an efficient processor, and software into an integrated, pre-verified subsystem;
•
Security IP solutions, including cryptographic cores and software, security subsystems, platform security and content protection IP;
•
An industry-leading offering of IP for the automotive market, optimized for strict functional safety and reliability standards such as ISO 26262;
•
Analog IP including data converters and audio codecs; and
•
SoC infrastructure IP, datapath and building block IP, mathematical and floating-point components, Arm® AMBA® interconnect fabric and peripherals, and verification IP.

Our IP Accelerated initiative augments our established, broad portfolio of silicon-proven DesignWare IP with IP Prototyping Kits and customized IP subsystems to accelerate prototyping, software development, and integration of IP into SoCs.

We offer a broad portfolio of IP that has been optimized to address specific application requirements for the mobile, automotive, digital home, internet of things, and cloud computing markets, enabling designers to quickly develop SoCs in these areas.

Our Verification IP portfolio, part of our Verification Continuum platform, is also part of the IP Products category.
System Integration Solutions


6
Table of Contents

Our System Integration verification solutions include the following elements of our Verification Continuum platform:
•
HAPS® FPGA-based prototyping systems, which are integrated and scalable hardware-software solutions for early software development and faster time to market;
•
Virtualizer™ virtual prototyping solution, which addresses the increasing development challenges associated with software-rich semiconductor and electronic products by accelerating both the development and deployment of virtual prototypes; and
•
Platform Architect solution, which provides for early analysis and optimization of multi-core SoC architectures for performance and power.

We also provide a series of tools used in the design of optical systems and photonic devices. Our CODE V® solution enables engineers to model, analyze and optimize designs for optical imaging and communication systems. Our LightTools® design and analysis software allows designers to simulate and improve the performance of a broad range of illumination systems, from vehicle lighting to projector systems.

Other

Our Other revenue category includes revenue from sales of products to academic and research institutions.

Software Integrity Segment

Our Software Integrity segment provides a comprehensive solution for building integrity—security, quality and compliance testing—into our customers’ software development lifecycle and supply chain. These testing tools, services, and programs enable our customers to manage open source license compliance and detect and remediate security vulnerabilities and defects across their entire software development lifecycle. Our offerings include security and quality testing products, managed services, programs and professional services, and training.

Key offerings in the security, quality and compliance testing space include:
    
•
Polaris Software Integrity Platform™, which is designed to provide customers with an easy-to-use and integrated platform that enables organizations to intelligently orchestrate software testing or integrate Synopsys products and third-party tools into DevOps workflows. Introduced in April 2019 with its initial configuration, Polaris Software Integrity Platform™ will be enhanced throughout 2021 and beyond;

•
Coverity® static analysis tools, which analyze software code to find crash-causing bugs, incorrect program behavior, the latest security vulnerabilities, memory leaks and other performance-degrading flaws;

•
Black Duck™ software composition analysis tools, which scan binary and source code for license and compliance issues and other known security vulnerabilities stemming from incorporated third-party and open source code;

•
Seeker® IAST tool, which identifies exploitable security vulnerabilities while web applications are running, thereby verifying results and eliminating false positives; and

•
Defensics® fuzz testing tools, which examine security vulnerabilities in software binaries and libraries, particularly network protocols and file formats, by systematically sending invalid or unexpected inputs to the system under test.

Managed services allow developers to test code across many dimensions, and to rapidly respond to changing testing requirements and evolving threats. This includes Mobile Application Security Testing (AST) services to find vulnerabilities in mobile applications as well as Dynamic Application Security Testing (DAST) services which identify security vulnerabilities while web applications are running, without the need for source code.

Programs and professional services address unique security and quality needs with specialized consulting by skilled experts, including the Building Security in Maturity Mode (BSIMM), which measures the effectiveness of software security initiatives by assessing the current state as compared to industry benchmarks, and the Black Duck™ on

7
Table of Contents

demand audit services, which provides open source compliance and software vulnerability assessments as part of the due diligence process for mergers and acquisitions.

Finally, training includes eLearning and instructor-led training that prepares developers and security professionals to build security and quality into their software development process and remediate found vulnerabilities and defects.
Customer Service and Technical Support

A high level of customer service and support is critical to the adoption and successful use of our products. We provide technical support for our products through both field-based and corporate-based application engineering teams.

Post-contract customer support includes providing frequent updates and upgrades to maintain the utility of the software due to rapid changes in technology. In our Semiconductor & System Design segment, post-contract customer support for our EDA and IP products also includes access to the SolvNet® portal, where customers can explore our complete design knowledge database. Updated daily, the SolvNet portal includes technical documentation, design tips, and answers to user questions. Customers can also engage, for additional charges, with our worldwide network of applications consultants for additional support needs.

In our Software Integrity segment, post-contract customer support for our products includes access to our support community portal, where customers can access our product documentation, self-service training materials, customer forums and our product knowledge base. Customers can also raise support tickets, request replacement license keys and validate the terms of their active license keys through the portal. Our support community portal is frequently updated with new and supplemental materials on a variety of topics. Customers may engage dedicated support engineers for an additional charge.

In addition, we offer training workshops designed to increase customer design proficiency and productivity with our products. Workshops cover our EDA products and methodologies used in our design and verification flows, as well as specialized modules addressing system design, logic design, physical design, simulation and testing. We offer regularly scheduled public and private courses in a variety of locations worldwide, as well as online training (live or on-demand) through our Virtual Classrooms.
Product Warranties

We generally warrant our products to be free from defects in media and to substantially conform to material specifications for a period of 90 days for our software products and for up to 6 months for our hardware products. In many cases, we also provide our customers with limited indemnification with respect to claims that their use of our software products infringes on United States patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets. We have not experienced material warranty or indemnity claims to date.
Support for Industry Standards

We actively create and support standards that help our EDA and IP customers increase productivity, facilitate efficient design flows, improve interoperability of tools from different vendors, and ensure connectivity, functionality and interoperability of IP building blocks. Standards in the electronic design industry can be established by formal accredited organizations, industry consortia, company licensing made available to all, de facto usage, or through open source licensing.

In our Semiconductor & System Design segment, our EDA products support many standards, including the most commonly used hardware description languages: SystemVerilog, Verilog, VHDL, and SystemC®. Our products utilize numerous industry-standard data formats, APIs, and databases for the exchange of design data among our tools, other EDA vendors’ products, and applications that customers develop internally. We also comply with a wide range of industry standards within our IP product family to ensure usability and interconnectivity.

In our Software Integrity segment, our solutions support several existing and emerging industry standards for software coding and security, such as the Motor Industry Software Reliability Association (MISRA) coding standards for the automotive industry. In addition, our products support multiple major programming languages, including C/C++, Objective C, C#, JavaScript (including many commonly used frameworks), and others. In addition, we support many common compilers, development environments, frameworks, and data and file formats.

8
Table of Contents

Sales and Distribution

Our Semiconductor & System Design segment customers are primarily semiconductor and electronics systems companies. The customers for products in our Software Integrity segment include many of these companies as well as companies from a wider array of industries, including electronics, financial services, automotive, medicine, energy and industrials.

We market our products and services principally through direct sales in the United States and our principal foreign markets. We typically distribute our software products and documentation to customers electronically, but provide physical media (e.g., DVD-ROMs) when requested by the customer.

We maintain sales and support centers throughout the United States. Outside the United States, we maintain sales, support or service offices in Canada, multiple countries in Europe, Israel and throughout Asia, including Japan, China, Korea, and Taiwan. Our international headquarters are located in Dublin, Ireland. Our offices are further described under Part I, Item 2, Properties.
Information relating to domestic and foreign operations, including revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area, is contained in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Risks related to our foreign operations are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors.

Revenue Attributable to Product Categories and Segments

Revenue attributable to each of our four product categories (with EDA, IP & Systems Integration, and Other comprising our Semiconductor & System Design segment) is shown below as a percentage of our total revenue for those fiscal years.

9
Table of Contents

revenuebyproduct.jpg
Aggregate revenue derived from one of our customers and its subsidiaries through multiple agreements accounted for 12.4%, 12.8% and 15.4% of our total revenue in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In each such year, the revenue derived from such customer and its subsidiaries was primarily attributable to our Semiconductor & System Design segment.
Product Sales and Licensing Agreements

We typically license our software to customers under non-exclusive license agreements that restrict use of our software to specified purposes within specified geographical areas. The majority of licenses to our EDA products are network licenses that allow a number of individual users to access the software on a defined network, including, in some cases, regional or global networks. The majority of licenses to our Software Integrity products are capacity or user licenses that allow a number of users to access the software based on a specified number of team members or specified code-bases in a defined territory. License fees depend on the type of license, product mix, and number of copies of each product licensed.

For a full discussion of our software product offerings, see Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.

We typically license our DesignWare IP products under nonexclusive license agreements that provide usage rights for specific designs. Fees under these licenses are typically charged on a per design basis plus, in some cases, royalties. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Our hardware products, which principally consist of our prototyping and emulation systems, are either sold or leased to our customers. Our professional services team typically provides design consulting services to our customers under consulting agreements with statements of work specific to each project.
Competition

The EDA industry is highly competitive. We compete against other EDA vendors and against our customers’ own design tools and internal design capabilities. In general, we compete principally on technology leadership, product quality and features (including ease-of-use), license terms, price and payment terms, post-contract customer

10
Table of Contents

support, flexibility of tool use, and interoperability with our own and other vendors’ products. We also deliver a significant amount of engineering and design consulting for our products. No single factor drives an EDA customer’s buying decision, and we compete on all fronts to capture a higher portion of our customers’ budgets. Our competitors include EDA vendors that offer varying ranges of products and services, such as Cadence Design Systems, Inc. and Mentor Graphics Corporation (now part of Siemens AG). We also compete with other EDA vendors, including new entrants to the marketplace, that offer products focused on one or more discrete phases of the IC design process, as well as with customers’ internally developed design tools and capabilities.

Within our Semiconductor & System Design segment, Synopsys also competes against numerous other IP providers, including Cadence Design Systems, Inc., and our customers' internally developed IP. We generally compete on the basis of product quality, reliability and features, availability of titles for new manufacturing processes, ease of integration with customer designs, compatibility with design tools, license terms, price and payment terms, and customer support.

Our Software Integrity segment competes with numerous other solution providers, many of which focus on specific aspects of software security or quality analysis. We also compete with frequent new entrants, which include start-up companies and more established software companies. For example, competitors named in the Gartner Magic Quadrant for Application Security Testing include Checkmarx Ltd., Veracode (now part of Thoma Bravo, LLC) and Micro Focus International plc.
Proprietary Rights

We primarily rely upon a combination of copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws and license and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We have a diversified portfolio of more than 3,300 United States and foreign patents issued, and we will continue to pursue additional patents in the future. Our issued patents have expiration dates through 2040. Our patents primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. Our source code is protected both as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyrighted work. However, third parties may independently develop similar technology. In addition, effective copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. While protecting our proprietary technology is important to our success, our business as a whole is not significantly dependent upon any single patent, copyright, trademark, or license.

In many cases, under our customer agreements and other license agreements, we offer to indemnify our customers if the licensed products infringe on a third party’s intellectual property rights. As a result, we may from time to time need to defend claims that our customers’ use of our products infringes on these third-party rights. We license software and other intellectual property from third parties, including, in several instances, for inclusion in our products. Risks related to our use of third-party technology are described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors.
Corporate Social Responsibility at Synopsys

We recognize that our significant role in shaping a future of Smart Everything brings important responsibilities. The future is not smart if it is not sustainable, fair and secure. Our "Smart Future" Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) program provides a focus and structure for how Synopsys addresses both our own operational impact on the world and our ability to influence others around us. We are helping address global issues such as climate change, as well as focusing on the need for social justice and equality.

Through our CSR program, we are committed to taking actions related to our operational impact, such as driving diversity and inclusion initiatives throughout our workforce and on our Board of Directors, building security into our products, and reducing our environmental impact. Synopsys has committed to ambitious CSR goals, including, for example, a pledge to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2024, compared with our 2018 baseline. Additional detail on our proactive efforts to address climate change are included in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report, CDP Climate Change Questionnaire, and on our website.1 
 
1The contents of our website and our Corporate Social Responsibility Report and CDP Climate Change Questionnaire are referenced for general information only and are not incorporated into this 10-K.

11
Table of Contents

Our Smart Future commitment also means applying our problem-solving approach, people, technology and other resources to influence those around us—including our customers, partners and suppliers—to join us in driving positive change in the world.  Synopsys technology is in action in countless ways: from bringing safety and security to the driverless car revolution to enabling the technologies that are an increasingly vital component of protecting human health and well-being.  As the role of computing increases exponentially, IoT, 5G and machine learning applications risk driving similarly exponential energy consumption and carbon emissions. This makes Synopsys’ work to enable low-power computing at the device level and in the cloud especially critical to the industry’s sustainability.  At the same time, we are advancing global supply chain sustainability as a member of the Responsible Business Alliance and our Synopsys for Good program combines volunteer time, our technology expertise and financial donations to bring STEM education and other support to the communities in which we work.
Human Capital Resources

Synopsys is committed to attracting and retaining the brightest and best talent, so investing in human capital is critical to our success. As of October 31, 2020, Synopsys had 15,036 employees, of which approximately 35% are in the Americas, and 65% in other global regions. Approximately 80% of our employees are engineers, and almost half of those employees hold Masters’ or PhD degrees. Human capital measures and objectives that Synopsys focuses on in managing its business include employee safety, talent acquisition and retention, employee engagement, development and training, diversity and inclusion, and compensation and pay equity.
COVID-19 and Employee Safety
During the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary focus has been on the safety and well-being of our employees and their families. Our global pandemic efforts include leveraging the advice and recommendations of infectious disease experts to establish proper safety standards and secure appropriate levels of personal protective equipment. We launched regional emergency response teams to ensure that our employees have the appropriate equipment and support to safely and productively work remotely. In addition, in order to reinforce a deep connection and establish clear direction with our employees, we have significantly increased leadership updates and management outreach. As part of our planning, we also solicited voluntary individual profiles from our employees, enabling us to efficiently and effectively address their unique needs. Our employees have been provided with a composite of benefits and support initiatives to address the inherent challenges of working remotely during a pandemic. As the pandemic continues, the health and well-being of our workforce remains our top priority while we ensure productivity while working from home.
Engaging the Entire Team
We address employee engagement through three foundational areas: recruiting and retaining a diverse workforce, soliciting and addressing employee feedback, and frequent management outreach to ensure commitment, engagement, continuous learning and skills development.
Our workforce is representative of the industry we serve. We are highly technical, enjoy pushing the boundaries of what is possible and are individually innovative. In 2020, we grew our global team by approximately 8% with a keen focus on increasing the number of technical women in our workforce and ensuring a vibrant talent pipeline through early career hiring. We had an external hiring rate of 27% women and 29% early career hires (defined as within one year of a candidate’s most recent academic degree). In this same timeframe, our undesired turnover rate has been notably low, compared to competitive benchmarks and historical trends. We attribute our strong retention to a number of factors, including exciting and challenging assignments, strong leadership and management, the opportunity to learn new skills and advance careers, the strength of our technology, customer relationships and business, along with competitive and equitable total rewards.
To ensure a compelling total rewards philosophy and practice, we have practices in place to deliver fair and equitable compensation for employees based on their contribution and performance.  We benchmark for market practices, and regularly review our compensation against the market to ensure it remains competitive. We also offer a comprehensive and tailored set of benefits for employees and their families, providing protection from unexpected losses or medical expenses. Our benefits programs are tailored to the various geographies in which we operate.
We believe in continual improvement and use employee feedback to drive and improve processes that support our customers and ensure a deep understanding of our culture and vision among our employees. We conduct a confidential employee survey twice a year, and in 2020 we had record-breaking participation—90% of our employees shared their experiences and provided feedback for improvement. Results show that Synopsys employees are highly engaged, with scores generally rising in recent years. In addition, during 2020, we conducted several surveys to understand our employees’ well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic and to more effectively

12
Table of Contents

guide our response. Those surveys showed high approval rates of our communication and response to the pandemic. Ninety percent felt that we were helping them feel connected to one another, providing a sense of community while working remotely.
We also believe that ongoing performance feedback encourages greater engagement in our business and improved individual performance. Each year, our employees participate in our Performance Development Program that summarizes key accomplishments for the preceding year, establishes new stretch goals, and identifies critical capabilities for development. We encourage managers to solicit and share supportive 360-degree feedback, further strengthening the focus on teamwork and team success.
Empowering Leadership
We regard every member of our global team as a leader. We sponsor a number of leadership programs to address the career advancement and associated business impact of our employees, emerging leaders and executives.
Our management training is designed to increase capability in the areas of communication, engagement, coaching, inclusion and diversity, hiring and on-boarding, business skills and ensuring an ethical and supportive work environment free from bias and harassment. As employees advance in their careers, our training framework builds new capabilities on established foundational skills. Our regions and business teams also customize development programs for their specific needs.
Synopsys sponsors continuous learning and skills development through our digital platform that is utilized by 75% of our employees as the source for internal training and insights, as well as access to external articles, videos and blogs. In addition, we host a series of in-person and on-demand learning sessions designed to build capability and adaptability required for the future.
Information about our Executive Officers
The executive officers of Synopsys and their ages as of December 14, 2020 were as follows:
Name
 
Age
 
Position
Aart J. de Geus
 
66
 
Co-Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors
Chi-Foon Chan
 
71
 
Co-Chief Executive Officer and President
Sassine Ghazi
 
50
 
Chief Operating Officer
Trac Pham
 
51
 
Chief Financial Officer
Joseph W. Logan
 
61
 
Sales and Corporate Marketing Officer
John F. Runkel, Jr.
 
65
 
General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Aart J. de Geus co-founded Synopsys and has served as Chairman of our Board of Directors since February 1998 and Chief Executive Officer since January 1994. He has served as Co-Chief Executive Officer with Dr. Chi-Foon Chan since May 2012. Since the inception of Synopsys in December 1986, Dr. de Geus has held a variety of positions, including President, Senior Vice President of Engineering and Senior Vice President of Marketing. He has served as a member of Synopsys’ Board of Directors since 1986, and served as Chairman of our Board from 1986 to 1992 and again from 1998 until present. Dr. de Geus has also served on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc. since July 2007. Dr. de Geus holds an M.S.E.E. from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne, Switzerland and a Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Southern Methodist University.
Chi-Foon Chan has served as our Co-Chief Executive Officer since May 2012 and as our President and a member of our Board of Directors since February 1998. Prior to his appointment as our Co-Chief Executive Officer in May 2012, he had served as our Chief Operating Officer since April 1997. Dr. Chan joined Synopsys in May 1990 and has held various senior management positions, including Executive Vice President, Office of the President from September 1996 to February 1998 and Senior Vice President, Design Tools Group from February 1994 to April 1997. Dr. Chan has also held senior management and engineering positions at NEC Electronics and Intel Corporation. Dr. Chan holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Rutgers University, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Computer Engineering from Case Western Reserve University.
Sassine Ghazi has served as our Chief Operating Officer since August 2020. Mr. Ghazi joined Synopsys in March 1998 as an Application Engineer and most recently served as General Manager of the Design Group. Prior to joining Synopsys, Mr. Ghazi was a design engineer at Intel. Mr. Ghazi received his bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Lebanese American University; a B.S.E.E from the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1993; and an M.S.E.E. from the University of Tennessee in 1995.

13
Table of Contents

Trac Pham is our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Pham joined Synopsys in November 2006 as Vice President, Financial Planning and Strategy. He became our Vice President, Corporate Finance, in August 2012, assuming additional responsibility for our tax and treasury functions, before being appointed Chief Financial Officer in December 2014. Mr. Pham holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley and an MPIA (Master of Pacific International Affairs) from the University of California, San Diego. He is an active status California CPA.
Joseph W. Logan serves as our Sales and Corporate Marketing Officer. He became Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales in September 2006 and assumed responsibility for our Corporate Marketing organization in August 2013. Previously, Mr. Logan was head of sales for Synopsys’ North America East region from September 2001 to September 2006. Prior to Synopsys, Mr. Logan was head of North American Sales and Support at Avant! Corporation. Mr. Logan holds a B.S.E.E. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
John F. Runkel, Jr. has served as our General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since May 2014. From October 2008 to March 2013, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary of Affymetrix, Inc. He served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of Intuitive Surgical, Inc. from 2006 to 2007. Mr. Runkel served in several roles at VISX, Inc. from 2001 to 2005, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Development and General Counsel. Mr. Runkel was also a partner at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP for 11 years. He holds a Bachelor of Arts and a Juris Doctorate from the University of California, Los Angeles.
There are no family relationships among any Synopsys executive officers or directors.

