PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. ("the Company") was founded in 1843 by Frederick T. Stanley and incorporated in Connecticut in 1852. In March 2010, the Company completed a merger ("the Merger") with The Black & Decker Corporation (“Black & Decker”), a company founded by S. Duncan Black and Alonzo G. Decker and incorporated in Maryland in 1910. At that time, the Company changed its name from The Stanley Works to Stanley Black & Decker, Inc. The Company’s principal executive office is located at 1000 Stanley Drive, New Britain, Connecticut 06053 and its telephone number is (860) 225-5111.

The Company is a diversified global provider of hand tools, power tools and related accessories, engineered fastening systems and products, services and equipment for oil & gas and infrastructure applications, commercial electronic security and monitoring systems, healthcare solutions, and automatic doors, with 2020 consolidated annual revenues of $14.5 billion. Approximately 61% of the Company’s 2020 revenues were generated in the United States, with the remainder largely from Europe (19%), emerging markets (11%) and Canada (5%).

The Company continues to execute a growth and acquisition strategy that involves industry, geographic and customer diversification to foster sustainable revenue, earnings and cash flow growth. The Company remains focused on delivering above-market organic growth with margin expansion by leveraging its proven and long-standing Stanley Black & Decker Operating Model (“SBD Operating Model”) which has continually evolved over the past 15 years as times have changed. At the center of the SBD Operating Model is the concept of the interrelationship between people and technology, which intersect and interact with the other key elements: Performance Resiliency, Extreme Innovation, Operations Excellence and Extraordinary Customer Experience. Each of these elements co-exists synergistically with the others in a systems-based approach. The Company will leverage the SBD Operating Model to continue making strides towards achieving its vision of delivering top-quartile financial performance, becoming known as one of the world’s leading innovators and elevating its commitment to social responsibility.

The above strategy has also resulted in approximately $11.5 billion of acquisitions since 2002 (excluding the Merger), which was enabled by strong cash flow generation and increased debt capacity. In recent years, the Company completed the acquisitions of Consolidated Aerospace Manufacturing, LLC ("CAM") for approximately $1.4 billion, International Equipment Solutions Attachments Group ("IES Attachments") for approximately $654 million, Nelson Fastener Systems ("Nelson") for approximately $424 million, the Tools business of Newell Brands ("Newell Tools") for approximately $1.8 billion, and the Craftsman® brand from Sears Holdings Corporation ("Sears Holdings") for an estimated cash purchase price of approximately $937 million on a discounted basis. The CAM acquisition further diversifies the Company's presence in the industrial markets and expands its portfolio of specialty fasteners in the aerospace and defense markets. The IES Attachments acquisition further diversified the Company's presence in the industrial markets, expanded its portfolio of attachment solutions and provided a meaningful platform for continued growth. The Nelson acquisition was complementary to the Company's product offerings, enhanced its presence in the general industrial end markets, and expanded its portfolio of highly-engineered fastening solutions. The Newell Tools acquisition, which included the industrial cutting, hand tool and power tool accessory brands IRWIN® and LENOX®, enhanced the Company’s position within the global tools & storage industry and broadened the Company’s product offerings and solutions to customers and end users, particularly within power tool accessories. The Craftsman acquisition provided the Company with the rights to develop, manufacture and sell Craftsman®-branded products in non-Sears Holdings channels.
In January 2019, the Company acquired a 20 percent interest in MTD Holdings Inc. ("MTD"), a privately held global manufacturer of outdoor power equipment, for $234 million in cash.  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company has the option to acquire the remaining 80 percent of MTD beginning on July 1, 2021. The investment in MTD increases the Company's presence in the greater than $20 billion lawn and garden segment and enables the two companies to work together to pursue revenue and cost opportunities, improve operational efficiency, and introduce new and innovative products for professional and residential outdoor equipment customers, utilizing each company's respective portfolios of strong brands.

In May 2019, the Company sold its Sargent and Greenleaf mechanical locks business within the Security segment for net proceeds of $79 million. In February 2017, the Company completed the sale of the majority of its mechanical security businesses, which included the commercial hardware brands of Best Access, phi Precision and GMT, for net proceeds of approximately $717 million. These divestitures allowed the Company to invest in other areas of the Company that fit into its long-term growth strategy.
The Company has also divested several smaller businesses in recent years that did not fit into its long-term strategic objectives.

3

Refer to Note E, Acquisitions and Investments, and Note T, Divestitures, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion.
The Company’s growth and acquisition strategy is interdependent with its social responsibility strategy focused on workforce upskilling, product innovation, and environmental preservation including mitigating the impacts of climate change. These are core business issues that ensure the long-term viability of the Company, its customers, suppliers, and communities. The Company has established environmental, social and corporate governance targets embodied in its 2030 Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) strategy that include upskilling 10 million makers and creators, enhancing 500 million lives through purpose driven product innovation, becoming carbon-positive, landfill-free, and reducing water use in water stressed and scarce areas. The carbon positive target includes third-party approved science-based targets to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions by greater than 100% by 2030, and to reduce supply chain emissions by 35%. The Company’s CSR strategy considers all life-cycle stages including material procurement from supply chain partners, product design, manufacturing, distribution and transportation, product use, product service and end-of-life. Refer to section "Human Capital Management" for additional information regarding the Company's commitment to upskilling its employees and improving diversity, equity and inclusion.
Description of the Business
The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable business segments, which also represent its operating segments: Tools & Storage, Industrial and Security. All segments have significant international operations and are exposed to translational and transactional impacts from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
Additional information regarding the Company’s business segments and geographic areas is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned “Business Segment Results” in Item 7 and Note P, Business Segments and Geographic Areas, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.
Tools & Storage
The Tools & Storage segment is comprised of the Power Tools and Equipment ("PTE") and Hand Tools, Accessories & Storage ("HTAS") businesses. Annual revenues in the Tools & Storage segment were $10.3 billion in 2020, representing 71% of the Company’s total revenues.
The PTE business includes both professional and consumer products. Professional products include professional grade corded and cordless electric power tools and equipment including drills, impact wrenches and drivers, grinders, saws, routers and sanders, as well as pneumatic tools and fasteners including nail guns, nails, staplers and staples, concrete and masonry anchors. Consumer products include corded and cordless electric power tools sold primarily under the BLACK+DECKER® brand, lawn and garden products, including hedge trimmers, string trimmers, lawn mowers, edgers and related accessories, and home products such as hand-held vacuums, paint tools and cleaning appliances.
The HTAS business sells hand tools, power tool accessories and storage products. Hand tools include measuring, leveling and layout tools, planes, hammers, demolition tools, clamps, vises, knives, saws, chisels and industrial and automotive tools. Power tool accessories include drill bits, screwdriver bits, router bits, abrasives, saw blades and threading products. Storage products include tool boxes, sawhorses, medical cabinets and engineered storage solution products.
The segment sells its products to professional end users, distributors, retail consumers and industrial customers in a wide variety of industries and geographies. The majority of sales are distributed through retailers, including home centers, mass merchants, hardware stores, and retail lumber yards, as well as third-party distributors and a direct sales force.
Industrial
The Industrial segment is comprised of the Engineered Fastening and Infrastructure businesses. Annual revenues in the Industrial segment were $2.3 billion in 2020, representing 16% of the Company’s total revenues.
The Engineered Fastening business primarily sells highly engineered components such as fasteners, fittings and various engineered products, which are designed for specific application across multiple verticals. The product lines include externally threaded fasteners, blind rivets and tools, blind inserts and tools, drawn arc weld studs and systems, engineered plastic and mechanical fasteners, self-piercing riveting systems, precision nut running systems, micro fasteners, high-strength structural fasteners, axel swage, latches, heat shields, pins, and couplings. The business sells to customers in the automotive, manufacturing, electronics, construction, and aerospace industries, amongst others, and its products are distributed through direct sales forces and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors.

4

The Infrastructure business consists of the Attachment Tools and Oil & Gas product lines. Attachment Tools sells hydraulic tools and high quality, performance-driven heavy equipment attachment tools for off-highway applications. Oil & Gas sells and rents custom pipe handling, joint welding and coating equipment used in the construction of large and small diameter pipelines, and provides pipeline inspection services. The Infrastructure business sells to the oil and natural gas pipeline industry and other industrial customers. The products and services are primarily distributed through a direct sales force and, to a lesser extent, third-party distributors.
Security
The Security segment is comprised of the Convergent Security Solutions ("CSS") and Mechanical Access Solutions ("MAS") businesses. Annual revenues in the Security segment were $1.9 billion in 2020, representing 13% of the Company’s total revenues.
The CSS business designs, supplies and installs commercial electronic security systems and provides electronic security services, including alarm monitoring, video surveillance, fire alarm monitoring, systems integration and system maintenance. Purchasers of these systems typically contract for ongoing security systems monitoring and maintenance at the time of initial equipment installation. The business also sells healthcare solutions, which include asset tracking, infant protection, pediatric protection, patient protection, wander management, fall management, and emergency call products. The CSS business sells to consumers, retailers, educational, financial and healthcare institutions, as well as commercial, governmental and industrial customers. The MAS business primarily sells automatic doors to commercial customers. Products for both businesses are sold predominantly on a direct sales basis.
Other Information
Competition
The Company competes on the basis of its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, its commitment to customer service, its strong customer relationships, the breadth of its product lines, its innovative products and customer value propositions.
The Company encounters active competition in the Tools & Storage and Industrial segments from both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services. Certain large customers offer private label brands (“house brands”) that compete across a wide spectrum of the Company’s Tools & Storage segment product offerings. Competition in the Security segment is generally fragmented via both large international companies and regional providers. Competition tends to be based primarily on price and the quality and comprehensiveness of services offered to customers.
Major Customers
A significant portion of the Company’s Tools & Storage products are sold to home centers and mass merchants in the U.S. and Europe. A consolidation of retailers both in North America and abroad has occurred over time. While this consolidation and the domestic and international expansion of these large retailers have provided the Company with opportunities for growth, the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates a certain degree of exposure to potential sales volume loss. Lowe's accounted for approximately 15%, 15% and 12% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, while The Home Depot accounted for approximately 12% and 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2020 and 2019, respectively. No other customer exceeded 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales in 2020, 2019 or 2018.

Working Capital
The Company continues to practice the five operating principles encompassed by Operations Excellence, one element of the SBD Operating Model, which work in concert: sales and operations planning, operational lean, complexity reduction, global supply management, order-to-cash excellence, the application of Industry 4.0 and upskilling the Company's workforce. The Company develops standardized business processes and system platforms to reduce costs and provide scalability. The continued focus on the operating principles above have been instrumental in reducing working capital and creating significant opportunities to generate incremental free cash flow (defined as cash flow from operations less capital and software expenditures). Working capital turns were 10.4 at the end of 2020, up 0.6 turns from 2019, reflecting the strong revenue performance in 2020. The Company plans to continue leveraging Operations Excellence to generate ongoing improvements, both in the existing business and future acquisitions, in working capital turns, cycle times, complexity reduction and customer service levels, with a long-term goal of sustaining 10+ working capital turns.
Raw Materials
5

The Company’s products are manufactured using resins, ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel. The Company also purchases components such as batteries, motors, and electronic components to use in manufacturing and assembly operations along with resin-based molded parts. The raw materials required are procured globally and generally available from multiple sources at competitive prices. As part of the Company's Enterprise Risk Management, the Company has implemented a supplier risk mitigation strategy in order to identify and address any potential supply disruption or material scarcity issues associated with commodities, components, finished goods and critical services. The Company does not anticipate difficulties in obtaining supplies for any raw materials or energy used in its production processes.
Patents and Trademarks
No business segment is solely dependent, to any significant degree, on patents, licenses, franchises or concessions, and the loss of one or several of these patents, licenses, franchises or concessions would not have a material adverse effect on any of the Company's businesses. The Company owns numerous patents, none of which individually is material to the Company's operations as a whole. These patents expire at various times over the next 20 years. The Company holds licenses, franchises and concessions, none of which individually or in the aggregate are material to the Company's operations as a whole. These licenses, franchises and concessions vary in duration, but generally run from one to 40 years.
The Company has numerous trademarks that are used in its businesses worldwide. In the Tools & Storage segment, significant trademarks include STANLEY®, BLACK+DECKER®, DEWALT®, FLEXVOLT®, IRWIN®, LENOX®, CRAFTSMAN®, PORTER-CABLE®, BOSTITCH®, FATMAX®, Powers®, Guaranteed Tough®, MAC TOOLS®, PROTO®, Vidmar®, FACOM®, Expert®, LISTA® and the yellow & black color scheme for power tools and accessories. Significant trademarks in the Industrial segment include STANLEY®, CRC®, NELSON®, LaBounty®, Dubuis®, CribMaster®, POP®, Avdel®, Heli-Coil®, Tucker®, NPR®, Spiralock®, PALADIN®, CAM®, Bristol Industries®, Voss™, Aerofit™, EA Patten™, Integra®, Optia®, PENGO® and STANLEY® Assembly Technologies. The Security segment includes significant trademarks such as STANLEY®, HSM®, SONITROL®, Stanley Access Technologies™, AeroScout®, Hugs®, WanderGuard®, Roam Alert®, MyCall®, Arial® and Bed-Check®. The terms of these trademarks typically vary from 10 to 20 years, with most trademarks being renewable indefinitely for like terms.
Governmental Regulations
The Company's operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, both within and outside the U.S., in areas such as environmental protection, international trade, data privacy, tax, consumer protection, government contracts, and others. The Company is subject to import and export controls, tariffs, and other trade-related regulations and restrictions in the countries in which it has operations or otherwise does business. These controls, tariffs, regulations, and restrictions have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on the Company's business, including its ability to sell products and to manufacture or source components. Refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors in Part I of this Form 10-K for additional information regarding various laws and regulations that affect the Company's business operations.
The Company is also subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign countries where it has operations. In the normal course of business, the Company is involved in various legal proceedings relating to environmental issues. The Company’s policy is to accrue environmental investigatory and remediation costs for identified sites when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. In the event that no amount in the range of probable loss is considered most likely, the minimum loss in the range is accrued. The amount of liability recorded is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to each individual site and includes such factors as existing technology, presently enacted laws and regulations, and prior experience in remediation of contaminated sites. The liabilities recorded do not take into account any claims for recoveries from insurance or third parties. As assessments and remediation progress at individual sites, the amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. As of January 2, 2021 and December 28, 2019, the Company had reserves of $174.2 million and $213.8 million, respectively, for remediation activities associated with Company-owned properties, as well as for Superfund sites, for losses that are probable and estimable. Of the 2020 amount, $46.7 million is classified as current and $127.5 million as long-term, which is expected to be paid over the estimated remediation period. As of January 2, 2021, the Company has recorded $15.9 million in other assets related to funding by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and monies received have been placed in trust in accordance with the Consent Decree associated with the West Coast Loading Corporation ("WCLC") proceedings, as further discussed in Note S, Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Accordingly, the Company's net cash obligation as of January 2, 2021 associated with the aforementioned remediation activities is $158.3 million. The range of environmental remediation costs that is reasonably possible is $102.9 million to $245.3 million, which is subject to change in the near term. The Company may be liable for environmental remediation of sites it no longer owns. Liabilities have been recorded on those sites in accordance with the Company's policy.
6

The amount recorded for identified contingent liabilities is based on estimates. Amounts recorded are reviewed periodically and adjusted to reflect additional technical and legal information that becomes available. Actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the estimates, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures. Subject to the imprecision in estimating future contingent liability costs, the Company does not expect that any sum it may have to pay in connection with these matters in excess of the amounts recorded will have a materially adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Additional information regarding environmental matters is available in Note S, Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.
Compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position. However, laws and regulations may be changed, accelerated or adopted that impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company and which could negatively impact its operating results and financial condition.
Human Capital Management
The Company’s purpose is For Those Who Make the World, which puts employees, customers, communities and plants at the heart of its human capital strategies and practices. The Company defines success as delivering value for all stakeholders. The Company believes its commitment to quality, safety and sustainability enables its vision to be the type of uniquely human-centered global industrial company that strives to keep every stakeholder in mind and the Company's values, operating model and oversight of its human capital support this purpose.
As of January 2, 2021, the Company had approximately 53,100 employees in over 60 countries, approximately one-third of whom were employed in the U.S. In addition, the Company had approximately 10,500 temporary contractors globally, primarily in operations. The workforce is comprised of approximately 68% hourly-paid employees, principally in manufacturing, distribution center and security monitoring operations, and 32% salaried employees. Nearly 1,400 U.S. employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements dispersed among 28 different local labor unions, and a majority of European employees are represented by workers councils. The Company strives to maintain a positive relationship with all its employees, as well as the unions and workers councils representing them where applicable. There have been no significant interruptions of the Company’s operations in recent years due to labor disputes.
Governance and Oversight
The CEO and the management Executive Committee are entrusted with developing and advancing the Company’s key human capital strategy which is reviewed with the Board of Directors. The Chief Human Resource Officer is charged with the development and stewardship of this strategy on an enterprise-wide basis. This incorporates a broad range of dimensions, including culture, values, labor and employee relations, leadership capabilities, performance management and total rewards. Diversity, equity and inclusion are key to successfully achieving business and organizational objectives. Key processes include ongoing performance and development feedback, quarterly diversity, equity and inclusion reviews, and periodic engagement surveys that are reviewed by the management Executive Committee and Board of Directors. Code of Business Ethics, Workplace Harassment Prevention, and Managing Unconscious Bias trainings are provided to employees and the content is regularly reviewed for applicability and improvement, and updated as needed. All employees have access to the INTEGRITY@SBD platform where support, guidance and resources are available on topics regarding integrity, code of ethics, diversity, compliance, and workplace harassment. Employees are encouraged to address any concerns through multiple channels, including anonymously whenever possible, without fear of retaliation or retribution.
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
The Company's management Executive Committee, Board of Directors and workforce are dedicated to diversity, equity and inclusion and work to ensure that all employees feel valued, heard and are positioned to succeed. As of January 2, 2021, the Company's CEO and his direct staff reside in the U.S. and are comprised of 27% women and 20% of the CEO and his direct staff are racially or ethnically diverse. Women represent approximately 31% of the global workforce. As stated in the Company's Equal Employment Opportunity reporting to the U.S. government, in the U.S., approximately 33% of employees are racially or ethnically diverse.
The Company strives to create a culture of equality that unlocks human potential and uncovers the key drivers of a workplace in which everyone can advance and thrive. The Company is executing initiatives across the global workforce designed to foster an inclusive workplace and facilitate equitable career development opportunities. The Company has nine employee resource groups ("ERGs") with more than 90 local chapters across the globe. These ERGs are formed around various dimensions of diversity and participation across groups is encouraged. The ERGs include Abilities (including cognitive, social-emotional, and physical abilities), African Ancestry, Asian Heritage, Hispanic/Latinx, Developing Professionals, Pride & Allies (LGBTQ+),
7

Veterans, Women, and Working Parents. Company leaders actively participate, sponsor and engage with the ERGs. Management monitors hiring, retention, promotion and continued progress toward achieving the Company's diversity goals. The Company also prioritizes investing in its communities by supporting individuals and organizations that advance these goals across cities and regions in which it operates. In 2020, the management Executive Committee prioritized a focus on gender and racial/ethnic diversity across the Company. The Company launched an equity campaign designed to reach, inspire, support and engage (“RISE”) women and people of color. Through RISE, the Company has supported ten actions to confront racism and social injustice throughout its communities and across the world, which includes specific goals across culture, career, and community focus areas. In 2019, the Company became a signatory of Paradigm for Parity committing to addressing the gender gap in corporate leadership. The Company has also participated in the Business Roundtable Diversity & Inclusion Index, where the largest U.S.-based employers are committed to building a more inclusive environment. The Company's CEO was among the signatories of the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion.
Lifelong Learning
The Company believes a sustainable competitive advantage is achieved through lifelong learning. The employees' rate of learning, resilience, and adaptive performance enables the Company to innovate, operate with excellence, and deliver value to customers and shareholders. Employee learning and development is a key enabler to engage, motivate and inspire the Company's workforce and is supported internally through the Stanley Black & Decker University and externally with key partners. Tailored programs address career advancement, leadership development, and skill development needs of the workforce across the Company. Employees consumed more than 25,000 hours of online voluntary learning in 2020. As a leader in advanced manufacturing the Company also strives to provide meaningful training and development for critical skills, new skills, and ways of working with technology to its labor and factory workforce. This includes new operational skills, maintenance, digital, and management skills. The Company utilizes a broad range of capabilities, modes of learning, and platforms, including the use of artificial intelligence and data analytics to achieve its lifelong learning and advanced manufacturing objectives.
Talent Attraction, Advancement, and Retention
The diversity of skills, ways of working, and adaptability of the Company's operating model continue to increase and are reflected in all aspects of its talent management practices. Approximately 35% of global new hires in 2020 were women, and in the U.S. approximately 47% of new employees were racially or ethnically diverse. Internal talent reviews are conducted annually to manage talent and leadership performance. The Company utilizes feedback provided by employees through multiple channels, including internal social platforms, listening sessions, and periodic surveys to improve the employee experience and aspires to be the employer of choice. Development and succession plans are managed in partnership with Human Resources and business segments. Employee compensation and benefits are globally managed and locally adjusted to maintain market and skill competitiveness to attract and retain talent.
Employee Wellness, Health and Safety
The Company is committed to providing competitive benefits to attract and retain talent, that vary by country, including benefits and programs to support healthy lifestyles, mental health, and retirement readiness. In 2020, the Company's commitment to ensuring the health and safety of its employees and supply chain partners was demonstrated through its agile and adaptive response to the ongoing novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The Company was able to sustain business operations by implementing critical safety measures and wellness policies, oversight and systems. These actions proved to be highly effective in protecting critical manufacturing and operating employees in site locations and field operations. The Company also quickly transitioned its office employees around the globe to a nearly complete virtual workforce, providing the necessary technical and collaboration support to enable these employees to adjust to a virtual working environment. The Company believes the adopted hybrid work policies are likely to be a lasting result of the pandemic and will be a key enabler to support the broad needs of critical on-site to fully virtual employees. Additional information regarding the Company's response to COVID-19 is available under the caption “COVID-19 Pandemic” in Item 7.
The Company’s Environmental, Health, and Safety (“EHS”) Management System Plan describes the core elements of health and safety responsibility and accountability, including policies and procedures, designed in alignment with global standards, the Company’s Code of Business Ethics, applicable law and individual facility needs. Health and safety requirements apply to all employees and operating unit locations worldwide, including all manufacturing facilities, distribution centers, warehouses, field service centers, retail, office locations and mobile units, as well as to the Company's subsidiaries and joint ventures (in which the Company exercises decision making control over operations). Legal requirements may vary in different countries in which the Company’s facilities are located. Primary measures of safety performance include Total Recordable Incident Rate ("TRIR") and the Lost Time Incident Rate ("LTIR") based upon the number of incidents per 100 employees (or per 200,000 work hours).
8

Through December 2020, the Company reported a TRIR of 0.48, a LTIR of 0.17 and zero work-related fatalities. Reported total workforce numbers include employees and supervised contractors.
Additional information regarding the Company's Human Capital programs and initiatives is available in the Company's Annual Sustainability Report located under the Social Responsibility section of the Company’s website. The information on the Company’s website is not, and is not intended to be, part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated into this report by reference.
Research and Development Costs
Research and development costs, which are classified in Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A"), were $211.0 million, $255.2 million and $275.8 million for fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The reduction in spending in 2020 versus 2019 was primarily due to the temporary cost actions taken in response to COVID-19 that were broadly reinstated. In 2021, the Company plans to return to historic normalized spend levels consistent with 2019 as the Company continues to focus on becoming known as one of the world's greatest innovators and remains committed to generating new core and breakthrough innovations.
Available Information
The Company’s website is located at http://www.stanleyblackanddecker.com. This URL is intended to be an inactive textual reference only. It is not intended to be an active hyperlink to the Company's website. The information on the Company's website is not, and is not intended to be, part of this Form 10-K and is not incorporated into this report by reference. The Company makes its Forms 10-K, 10-Q, 8-K and amendments to each available free of charge on its website as soon as reasonably practicable after filing them with, or furnishing them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
