AT&T Inc. (“AT&T,” “we” or the “Company”) is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1983 and has its principal executive offices at 208 S. Akard St., Dallas, Texas, 75202 (telephone number 210-821-4105). We maintain an internet website at www.att.com. (This website address is for information only and is not intended to be an active link or to incorporate any website information into this document.) We file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) required reports on Form 8-K, Form 10-Q and Form 10-K; proxy materials; registration statements on Forms S-3 and S-8, as necessary; and other forms or reports as required. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. We make available, free of charge, on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. We also make available on that website, and in print, if any stockholder or other person so requests, our “Code of Ethics” applicable to all employees and Directors, our “Corporate Governance Guidelines,” and the charters for all committees of our Board of Directors, including Audit, Human Resources and Corporate Governance and Nominating. Any changes to our Code of Ethics or waiver of our Code of Ethics for senior financial officers, executive officers or Directors will be posted on that website.

A reference to a “Note” refers to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.

History
AT&T, formerly known as SBC Communications Inc. (SBC), was formed as one of several regional holding companies created to hold AT&T Corp.’s (ATTC) local telephone companies. On January 1, 1984, we were spun-off from ATTC pursuant to an anti-trust consent decree, becoming an independent publicly-traded telecommunications services provider. At formation, we primarily operated in five southwestern states.

Following our formation, we have expanded our footprint and operations by acquiring various businesses, most significantly:
•Our subsidiaries merged with Pacific Telesis Group in 1997, Southern New England Telecommunications Corporation in 1998 and Ameritech Corporation in 1999, thereby expanding our wireline operations as the incumbent local exchange carrier (ILEC) into a total of 13 states.
•In 2005, we merged one of our subsidiaries with ATTC, creating one of the world’s leading telecommunications providers. In connection with the merger, we changed the name of our company from “SBC Communications Inc.” to “AT&T Inc.”
•In 2006, we merged one of our subsidiaries with BellSouth Corporation (BellSouth) making us the ILEC in an additional nine states. With the BellSouth acquisition, we also acquired BellSouth’s 40 percent economic interest in AT&T Mobility LLC (AT&T Mobility), formerly Cingular Wireless LLC, resulting in 100 percent ownership of AT&T Mobility.
•In 2014, we completed the acquisition of wireless provider Leap Wireless International, Inc. and sold our ILEC operations in Connecticut, which we had previously acquired in 1998.
•In 2015, we acquired wireless properties in Mexico, and acquired DIRECTV, a leading provider of digital television entertainment services in both the United States and Latin America.
•In June 2018, we acquired Time Warner Inc. (Time Warner), a leader in media and entertainment that operates the Turner, Home Box Office (HBO) and Warner Bros. business units. We also acquired Otter Media Holdings and advertising platform AppNexus in August 2018.
•In October 2020, we sold our wireless and wireline operations in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.

1
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
General
We are a leading provider of telecommunications, media and technology services globally. The services and products that we offer vary by market and utilize various technology platforms in a range of geographies. Our reportable segments are organized as follows:

The Communications segment provides services to businesses and consumers located in the U.S. and businesses globally. Our business strategies reflect bundled product offerings that cut across product lines and utilize shared assets. This segment contains the following business units:
•Mobility provides nationwide wireless service and equipment.
•Video provides video, including over-the-top (OTT) services and also sells multiplatform advertising services recognized as video revenues.
•Broadband provides internet, including broadband fiber, and legacy telephony voice communications services to residential customers.
•Business Wireline provides advanced IP-based services, as well as traditional voice and data services to business customers.

The WarnerMedia segment develops, produces and distributes feature films, television, gaming and other content over various physical and digital formats, including our HBO Max streaming platform. This segment contains the following:
•Turner primarily operates multichannel basic television networks and digital properties. Turner also sells advertising on its networks and digital properties.
•Home Box Office consists of premium pay television and our HBO Max streaming platform domestically and premium pay, basic tier television and OTT and streaming services internationally, as well as content licensing and home entertainment.
•Warner Bros. consists of the production, distribution and licensing of television programming and feature films, the distribution of home entertainment products and the production and distribution of games.
•Eliminations & Other includes the Xandr advertising business and Otter Media Holdings operations, excluding Crunchyroll for which we reached an agreement to sell in December 2020 and applied held-for-sale accounting treatment, moving those results to Corporate and Other. Eliminations & Other also removes transactions between the Turner, Home Box Office and Warner Bros. business units, including internal sales of content to the HBO Max platform that began in the fourth quarter of 2019.

The Latin America segment provides entertainment and wireless services outside of the U.S. This segment contains the following business units:
•Vrio provides video services primarily to residential customers using satellite and streaming technology in Latin America and the Caribbean.
•Mexico provides wireless service and equipment to customers in Mexico.

Corporate and Other reconciles our segment results to consolidated operating income and income before income taxes, and includes:
•Corporate, which consists of: (1) businesses no longer integral to our operations or which we no longer actively market, (2) corporate support functions, (3) impacts of corporate-wide decisions for which the individual operating segments are not being evaluated, and (4) the reclassification of the amortization of prior service credits, which we continue to report with segment operating expenses, to consolidated “Other income (expense) – net.”
•Acquisition-related items, which consists of items associated with the merger and integration of acquired businesses, including amortization of intangible assets.
•Certain significant items, which includes (1) employee separation charges associated with voluntary and/or strategic offers, (2) losses resulting from asset impairments and abandonments, and (3) other items for which the individual segments are not being evaluated.
•Eliminations and consolidations, which (1) removes transactions involving dealings between our segments, including channel distribution between WarnerMedia and Communications, and (2) includes adjustments for our reporting of the advertising business.

2
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
Areas of Focus
We are in a period of rapid growth in wireless video usage and believe that there are substantial opportunities available for next-generation converged services that combine technologies and services. Our First Responder Network Authority (FirstNet) contract and our strong spectrum position allow us to execute a progressive 5G deployment strategy. With our subscription video on demand streaming platform, HBO Max, we intend to capitalize on our premier network, technology and distribution capabilities to provide our premier content in this highly attractive offering. Our fiber expansion allows us to respond to continuing advances in technology and changing demands from our customers. We expect our transition to software-based products with low acquisition costs will provide better economics and improve our product portfolio, including expansion of streaming services. Our acquisitions over the past few years and our continued investment in a premier network experience make our customers’ lives more convenient and productive and foster competition and further innovation in the communications and entertainment industry.

Communications
Our integrated telecommunications network utilizes different technological platforms, including wireless, satellite and wireline, to provide instant connectivity at the higher speeds made possible by our fiber network expansion and wireless network enhancements. Video streaming is expected to drive greater demand for broadband and capitalize on our fiber deployment. These investments have and should continue to prepare us to meet increased customer demand for enhanced wireless and broadband services, including video streaming, augmented reality and “smart” technologies. During 2021, we will continue to develop and provide high-value, integrated mobile and broadband solutions. We believe offering integrated services facilitates our customers’ desire to view content anywhere on demand and encourages customer retention.

Wireless Service We are experiencing rapid growth in data usage as consumers are demanding seamless access across their wireless and wired devices, and businesses and municipalities are connecting more and more equipment and facilities to the internet. We were awarded the FirstNet contract in 2018, which provided us with access to 20 MHz of nationwide low band spectrum and invested in 37/39 GHz spectrum in a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) auction. These bands facilitate our 5G services. At December 31, 2020, our FirstNet coverage is more than 80 percent complete with 1.9 million FirstNet connections. Our 5G service went nationwide in July 2020, and with that availability, we anticipate the introduction of 5G handsets and devices will contribute to a renewed interest in equipment upgrades. We will continue to invest in our wireless network as we look to provide future service offerings and participate in emerging technologies, such as 5G and millimeter-wave bands. The increased speeds and network operating efficiency expected with this technology should enable massive deployment of devices connected to the internet as well as faster delivery of data services. We expect that 5G will enhance our customers’ entire connected experience and not just provide faster speeds.

Our network covers over 440 million people in North America with 4G LTE technology, and, in the United States, our network covers all major metropolitan areas and more than 330 million people with our LTE technology. Our 3G network provides services to customers using older handsets and connected devices. We expect to redeploy spectrum currently used for our 3G services as we transition to 5G service and project that we will discontinue service on our 3G network in early 2022; we will manage this process consistent with previous network upgrades. As of December 31, 2020, about 5 percent of our postpaid subscribers were using 3G handsets, and we expect them to transition to newer technologies. We do not expect this transition to have a material impact on our consolidated operating results.

As the wireless industry has matured, future wireless growth will increasingly depend on our ability to offer innovative data services on a wireless network that has sufficient spectrum and capacity to support these innovations. We continue to invest significant capital in expanding our network capacity, as well as obtaining additional spectrum that meets our long-term needs. We participate in FCC spectrum auctions and have been redeploying spectrum previously used for more basic services to support more advanced mobile internet services.

Broadband Technology We are rapidly converting to a software-based network and managing the migration of wireline customers to services using our fiber infrastructure to provide broadband technology. Software-based technologies align with our global leadership in software defined network (SDN) and network function virtualization (NFV). This network approach, of which we have led the industry in virtualizing over 75 percent of our network as of the end of 2020, delivers a demonstrable cost advantage in the deployment of next-generation technology over the traditional, hardware-intensive network approach. Our virtualized network will be able to support next-generation applications like 5G and broadband-based services quickly and efficiently.

3
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
Media
We produce and distribute high-quality video content to take advantage of growing global demand. Our media businesses use their strong brands, distinctive intellectual property and global scale to produce and distribute quality content. As the television industry continues to evolve from a distribution system using satellite and cable offerings to internet streaming video services, we are well-positioned to address and capitalize on these changes, but we face financial risks and new sources of competition associated with these developments. In 2021, we plan to continue providing more personalized services offered directly to consumers through our own distribution and distribution partner channels, including launching our streaming platform, HBO Max, internationally beginning with Latin America. AT&T customers in the U.S. that have premium video, mobile and broadband services can bundle with HBO Max included at no additional charge. We also plan to add an advertising-supported HBO Max offering in 2021 to take advantage of our advertising capabilities. In the future, we expect to provide HBO Max subscribers with highly attractive live, interactive and special event programming.

Latin America
We believe that the wireless model in the U.S., with accelerating demand for mobile internet service and the associated economic benefits, will be repeated around the world as companies invest in high-speed mobile networks. Due in part to changes in the legal and regulatory framework in Mexico, we acquired Mexican wireless operations in 2015 to establish a seamless, cross-border North American wireless network covering an area with over 440 million people and businesses in the United States and Mexico. With the increased capacity from our completed LTE network, we also expect additional reseller revenue in 2021. Our 4G LTE network in Mexico now covers approximately 110 million people and businesses. Our Vrio business unit provides video services to primarily residential customers using satellite technology in Latin America and the Caribbean. We have approximately 11 million video subscribers in Latin America.

BUSINESS OPERATIONS

OPERATING SEGMENTS
Our segments are strategic business units that offer different products and services over various technology platforms and/or in different geographies that are managed accordingly. We analyze our operating segments based on segment contribution, which consists of operating income, excluding acquisition-related costs and other significant items, and equity in net income (loss) of affiliates for investments managed within each operating segment. We have three reportable segments: (1) Communications, (2) WarnerMedia and (3) Latin America. Historical results from Xandr, previously a separate reportable segment, have been combined with the WarnerMedia segment.

Additional information about our segments, including financial information, is included under the heading “Segment Results” in Item 7. and in Note 4 of Item 8.

COMMUNICATIONS
Our Communications segment provides wireless and wireline telecom, video and broadband services to consumers located in the U.S. and businesses globally. Our Communications services and products are marketed under the AT&T, Cricket, AT&T PREPAIDSM, AT&T TV, AT&T Fiber and DIRECTV brand names. The Communications segment provided approximately 79% of 2020 segment operating revenues and 80% of our 2020 total segment contribution. This segment contains the Mobility, Video, Broadband and Business Wireline business units.

Mobility – Our Mobility business unit provides nationwide wireless services to consumers and wholesale and resale wireless subscribers located in the United States by utilizing our network to provide voice and data services, including high-speed internet over wireless devices. We classify our subscribers as either postpaid, prepaid, connected device or reseller. At December 31, 2020, we served 183 million Mobility subscribers, including 77 million postpaid, 18 million prepaid, 7 million reseller and 81 million connected devices. Our Mobility business unit revenue includes the following categories: service and equipment.

Wireless Services
We offer a comprehensive range of high-quality nationwide wireless voice and data communications services in a variety of pricing plans to meet the communications needs of targeted customer categories. Through our FirstNet services, we also provide a nationwide wireless broadband network dedicated to public safety.

4
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
Consumers continue to require increasing availability of data-centric services and a network to connect and control those devices. An increasing number of our subscribers are using more advanced integrated and data-centric devices, including embedded computing systems and/or software, commonly called the Internet of Things (IoT). We offer plans that include unlimited features allowing for the sharing of voice, text and data across multiple devices, which attracts subscribers from other providers and helps minimize subscriber churn. Customers in our “connected device” category (e.g., users of monitoring devices and automobile systems) generally purchase those devices from third-party suppliers that buy data access supported by our network. We continue to upgrade our network and coordinate with equipment manufacturers and application developers to further capitalize on the continued growing demand for wireless data services.

We also offer nationwide wireless voice and data communications to certain customers who prefer to pay in advance. These services are offered under the Cricket and AT&T PREPAID brands and are typically monthly prepaid services.

Equipment
We sell a wide variety of handsets, wirelessly enabled computers and wireless data cards manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We also sell accessories, such as carrying cases and hands-free devices. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents and third-party retail stores. We provide our customers the ability to purchase handsets on an installment basis and the opportunity to bring their own device. In recent years, subscribers have been bringing their own devices or retaining their handsets for longer periods, which could continue to impact upgrade activity. Like other wireless service providers, we also provide a limited number of postpaid contract subscribers substantial equipment subsidies to initiate, renew or upgrade service.

Video – Our Video business unit provides video and targeted advertising services to customers in the United States. Our Video business unit revenue includes the following categories: service and equipment.

Video Services
Video service revenues are comprised of subscription and advertising revenues, and are offered over satellite and IP-based technologies (referred to as “premium” or “linear”) as well as OTT options that do not require either technology. Due to the rising cost of programming and an increasingly competitive industry, we have focused on acquiring and retaining high-value subscribers. Our OTT offering is delivered over our software-based video architecture and is bundled with our fiber broadband services.

We provide approximately 17 million subscribers with premium TV and OTT services. Our video subscribers can use the internet and/or our mobile applications from smartphones and tablets to view authorized content, search program listings and schedule DVR recordings. Consistent with industry trends, our customers continue to shift from premium TV services to OTT service and/or competitors, which has pressured our video revenues.

Equipment
We sell IP-based set-top boxes for delivery of video services.

Broadband – Our Broadband business unit provides broadband, including fiber, and legacy telephony internet and voice communication to customers in the United States by utilizing our IP-based and copper wired network. Our Broadband business unit revenue includes the following categories: high-speed internet, legacy voice and data services and other service and equipment.

High-Speed Internet
We offer broadband and internet services to more than 14 million customer locations, with 5 million fiber broadband connections at December 31, 2020. With changes in video viewing preferences and the recent work and learn from home trends, we are experiencing increasing demand for high-speed broadband services. Our investment in expanding our industry-leading fiber network positions us to be a leader in wired connectivity.

We believe that our flexible platform with a broadband and wireless connection is the most efficient way to transport direct-to-consumer video experiences both at home and on mobile devices. Through this integrated approach, we can optimize the use of storage in the home as well as in the cloud, while also providing a seamless service for consumers across screens and locations. Our WarnerMedia streaming platform, HBO Max, provides an attractive offering of video options as well as bundling opportunities for our wireless customers and is driving our direct to consumer strategy.
5
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts

Legacy Voice and Data Services
Revenues from our traditional voice services continue to decline as customers switch to wireless or VoIP services provided by us, cable companies or other internet-based providers. We have responded by offering packages of combined voice and data services, including broadband and video, and intend to continue this strategy during 2021.

Other Services and Equipment
Other service revenues include AT&T U-verse voice services (which use VoIP technology), customer fees and equipment.

Business Wireline – Our Business Wireline business unit provides services to business customers, including multinational corporations, small and mid-sized businesses, governmental and wholesale customers. Our Business Wireline business unit revenue includes the following categories: strategic and managed services, legacy voice and data services, and other services and equipment.

Strategic and Managed Services
Strategic and managed services are our most advanced business solutions and allow our customers to create and manage their own internal networks and to access external data networks. Additionally, we provide collaboration services that utilize our IP infrastructure and allow our customers to utilize the most advanced technology to improve their productivity. Our strategic and managed services are made up of Strategic Data, Strategic Voice, Security, Cloud Solutions, Outsourcing, Managed Services and Professional Services. Strategic Data services include our Virtual Private Networks (VPN), AT&T Dedicated Internet (ADI), and Ethernet and broadband services. We continue to reconfigure our wireline network to take advantage of the latest technologies and services. We have developed services that rely on our SDN and NFV to enhance business customers’ digital agility in a rapidly evolving environment. We also provide state-of-the-art security solutions like Threat Management, Intrusion Detection and other business security applications. Due to developing technology, our most advanced business solutions are subject to change periodically. We review and evaluate our strategic and managed service offerings annually, which may result in an updated definition and the recast of our historical financial information to conform to the current period presentation. Any modifications will be reflected in the first quarter.

Legacy Voice and Data Services
Voice services include services provided to business and governmental customers, either directly or through wholesale arrangements with other service providers. Our circuit-based, traditional data products include switched and dedicated transport services that allow customers to transmit data at high speeds, as well as access to the internet using a DSL connection.

Other Services and Equipment
Other service revenues include licensing of intellectual property and customer premises equipment.

Additional information on our Communications segment is contained in the “Overview” section of Item 7.

WARNERMEDIA
Our WarnerMedia segment is comprised of leading media and entertainment businesses that principally develop, produce and distribute feature films, television content, and other content globally; operate cable networks, premium pay television and subscription video on demand (SVOD or streaming) services domestically and internationally; and operate digital media properties. The WarnerMedia segment provided approximately 17% of 2020 segment operating revenues and 22% of our 2020 total segment contribution. This segment consists primarily of the Turner, Home Box Office, including our HBO Max streaming platform, and Warner Bros. business units.

Turner – The Turner business unit operates television networks and related properties that offer branded news, entertainment, sports and kids multi-platform content for consumers around the world. Turner licenses programming to distributors, sells advertising on its networks and digital properties owned or managed for other companies, and licenses its original programming and brands and characters for consumer products and other business ventures. Turner revenue includes the following categories: subscription, advertising and content and other.

Subscription
Turner’s programming is primarily delivered by distributors and is available to subscribers of the distributors for viewing live and on demand through the distributors’ services and Turner’s network apps. License agreements are typically multi-year arrangements that provide for annual service fee increases and have fee arrangements that are generally related to the number of networks provided to and subscribers served by the distributor.

6
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
Advertising
Advertising arrangements for Turner’s networks generally have terms of one year or less. In the U.S., the advertising revenues generally depend on the size and demographics of a network’s audience delivered to an advertiser, the number of units of time sold and the price per unit. The price per unit of advertising is determined considering factors such as the type of program or network and/or the time of day the advertising is to be run. Certain advertising inventory is sold in the “upfront” market in advance each year and other inventory in the “scatter” market closer to the time a program airs. Outside the U.S., advertising is generally sold at a fixed rate for the unit of time sold, determined by the time of day and network.

Turner’s digital properties consist of owned assets and those managed and/or operated for sports leagues where Turner holds the related programming rights. Digital properties managed or operated for sports leagues include NBA.com, NBA Mobile and NCAA.com.

Content and Other
Turner licenses certain owned original programming to international territories and to SVOD services. Turner also licenses its brands and characters for consumer products and other business ventures.

Home Box Office – Our Home Box Office business unit includes our streaming platform, HBO Max, and leading multichannel pay television services, HBO and Cinemax. In May 2020, we acquired the remaining interest in HBO Latin America Group (HBO LAG), which owns and operates various television channels and the streaming platform HBO GO in Latin America and the Caribbean. Our Home Box Office business unit revenue includes the following categories: subscription and content and other.

Subscription
In the U.S., HBO and Cinemax premium programming services are available to subscribers of traditional and digital distributors for viewing live and on-demand on television and on various internet-connected devices. We launched our streaming platform, HBO Max, in May 2020 through which programming is made available on a SVOD basis both direct-to-consumer and through distributors. WarnerMedia’s domestic license agreements with distributors are multi-year arrangements that typically provide for packaging and marketing support. Revenues depend on the specific terms of the applicable agreement, which may include subscriber thresholds, volume discounts and other performance-based discounts. As of December 31, 2020, we had more than 41 million domestic HBO Max and HBO subscribers (excluding Cinemax).

Internationally, HBO and Cinemax-branded premium pay, basic tier television and/or SVOD services are distributed in over 70 countries in Latin America, Europe and Asia. As of December 31, 2020, we had nearly 61 million HBO Max and HBO subscribers worldwide, including approximately 19 million international HBO premium pay television and SVOD service subscribers (excluding Cinemax and basic tier subscribers).

Content and Other
Original programming is licensed to television networks and OTT services in over 150 countries and is also available to customers in both physical and digital formats in the U.S. and various international regions.

Warner Bros. – Our Warner Bros. business unit is one of the largest television and film studios in the world. Warner Bros. produces, distributes and licenses television programming and feature films and distributes home entertainment products in both physical and digital formats, as well as producing and distributing games and licensing consumer products and brands. Warner Bros. allows us to offer an expanded library of programming available under HBO Max. At December 31, 2020, Warner Bros.’ vast content library consists of more than 120,000 hours of programming, including over 10,000 feature films and 5,500 television seasons comprised of tens of thousands of individual episodes.

The home entertainment industry is rapidly moving toward digital formats. While consumer spending on the higher-margin digital formats has increased in recent years, it has not offset decline in spending on product in physical formats, like DVDs. As such, Warner Bros. has been focusing on increasing the more profitable electronic sell-through and transactional digital VOD rentals of its film and television content while executing on opportunities to improve the operational efficiency of the physical distribution business.

Our Warner Bros. business unit revenue includes the following categories: theatrical product, television product, and games and other.

7
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
Theatrical Product
Theatrical product consists of (1) rental fees paid by movie theaters for the initial exhibition of feature films produced and/or distributed by Warner Bros., (2) licensing fees paid by HBO Max (which are eliminated in consolidation), television networks, premium pay television services and OTT services for the exhibition of feature films produced by Warner Bros. and (3) revenues from the distribution of Warner Bros.’ and other companies’ feature films in physical and digital formats. Our feature films also support key brands and franchises, which helps generate consumer product and brand licensing revenues based on Warner Bros.’ films and characters.

Driven by the pandemic-related partial closure of movie theaters and the availability of our HBO Max streaming platform, we have decided to release our 2021 films simultaneously on HBO Max and in theaters for 31 days. Both the continued partial closure of movie theaters and the resulting hybrid distribution model are expected to pressure revenues in 2021.

Television Product
Television product consists of (1) fees for the initial broadcast of television programming on U.S. broadcast and cable television networks and premium pay television and OTT services, (2) fees for the airing or other distribution of television programming after the initial broadcast in secondary U.S. distribution channels (such as basic cable networks, local television stations and OTT services), (3) fees for the international distribution of television programming for free-to-air television, basic tier television services, premium pay television services and OTT services, and (4) revenues from the sale of the television programming in physical and digital formats. Our television programming also supports Warner Bros.’ key brands and franchises, which helps generate consumer product and brand licensing revenues based on the programming for years beyond the initial airing of the programming on television. Warner Bros. licenses its U.S. programming globally.

Games and Other
We develop, publish and distribute games, including mobile and console games. The games are based on intellectual property owned or licensed by Warner Bros. (including DC Entertainment properties, Harry Potter and Mortal Kombat).

Additional information on our WarnerMedia segment is contained in the “Overview” section of Item 7.

LATIN AMERICA
Our Latin America segment provides entertainment services in Latin America and wireless services in Mexico. The Latin America segment provided approximately 3% of 2020 segment operating revenues. Our Latin America services and products are marketed under the AT&T, DIRECTV, SKY and Unefon brand names. This segment contains the Vrio and Mexico business units.

Vrio – Video entertainment services are provided to primarily residential customers using satellite technology. We are a leading provider of digital television services throughout Latin America, providing a wide selection of local and international digital-quality video entertainment and audio programming under the DIRECTV and SKY brands. We provide one of the most extensive collections of programming available in the Latin America pay-TV market, including HD sports video content and the most innovative interactive technology across the region. In addition, we have the unique ability to sell superior offerings of our differentiated products and services on a continent-wide basis with an operational cost structure that we believe to be lower than that of our competition.

In May 2020, we found it necessary to close our DIRECTV operations in Venezuela due to political instability in the country and to comply with sanctions of the U.S. government.

We have approximately 11 million video subscribers in Latin America. Our business encompasses pay television services with satellite operations serving Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay and parts of the Caribbean. Our operations also include our 41% equity method investment in Innova, S. de R.L. de C.V., or SKY Mexico. SKY Mexico financial results are accounted for as an equity method investment.

Mexico – We utilize our regional and national wireless networks in Mexico to provide consumer and business customers with wireless data and voice communication services. We divide our revenue into the following categories: wireless service and wireless equipment.

8
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
We provide postpaid and prepaid wireless services in Mexico to approximately 19 million subscribers under the AT&T and Unefon brands. Postpaid services allow for (1) no annual service contract for subscribers who bring their own device or purchase a device on installment (the device must be paid in full if the customer chooses to drop their service from AT&T) and (2) service contracts for periods up to 36 months for subscribers who purchase their equipment under the traditional device subsidy model. Plans offer no roaming charges in the United States or Canada, unlimited minutes and messages to the extended AT&T community and unlimited data access to social networking. We also offer prepaid services to customers who prefer to pay in advance.

We sell a wide variety of handsets, including smartphones manufactured by various suppliers for use with our voice and data services. We sell through our own company-owned stores, agents and third-party retail stores.

Additional information on our Latin America segment is contained in the “Overview” section of Item 7.

MAJOR CLASSES OF SERVICE

The following table sets forth the percentage of total consolidated reported operating revenues by any class of service that accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated total operating revenues in any of the last three fiscal years:

											
	
Percentage of Total
Consolidated Operating Revenues
	2020	2019	2018
Communications Segment	
Wireless service1
	32 	 %	30 	 %	32 	 %
Subscription2, 3
	16 		17 		19 	
Advanced data4
	13 		12 		12 	
Equipment	10 		9 		10 	
WarnerMedia Segment			
Subscription	8 		8 		4 	
Latin America Segment			
Subscription2
	2 		2 		3 	
Wireless service	1 		1 		1 	
Equipment	1 		1 		1 	
1Excludes advertising revenues included as Wireless service in our Mobility business unit of $291, $292 and $232 in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
2Subscription is reported as Video in our Video and Vrio business units.
3Excludes advertising revenues included as Video in our Video business unit of $1,718, $1,672 and $1,595 in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
4Advanced data is reported as High-speed internet and Strategic services in our Broadband and Business Wireline business units, respectively.

Additional information on our geographical distribution of revenues is contained in Note 4 of Item 8.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

Wireless communications providers in the United States must be licensed by the FCC to provide communications services at specified spectrum frequencies within defined geographic areas and must comply with the rules and policies governing the use of the spectrum as adopted by the FCC. The FCC’s rules have a direct impact on whether the wireless industry has sufficient spectrum available to support the high-quality, innovative services our customers demand. Wireless licenses are issued for a fixed time period, typically ten years, and we must seek renewal of these licenses. While the FCC has generally renewed licenses given to operating companies such as us, the FCC has authority to both revoke a license for cause and to deny a license renewal if a renewal is not in the public interest. Additionally, while wireless communications providers’ prices and service offerings are generally not subject to regulation, the federal government and various states periodically consider new regulations and legislation relating to various aspects of wireless services.

9
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
The Communications Act of 1934 and other related acts give the FCC broad authority to regulate the U.S. operations of our satellite services, which are licensed by the FCC, and some of WarnerMedia’s businesses are also subject to obligations under the Communications Act and related FCC regulations. We continue to support regulatory and legislative measures and efforts at both the federal and state levels to minimize and/or moderate regulatory burdens that are no longer appropriate in a competitive communications market and that inhibit our ability to compete more effectively and offer services wanted and needed by our customers, including initiatives to transition services from traditional networks to all IP-based networks. At the same time, we also seek to ensure that legacy regulations are not further extended to broadband or wireless services, which are subject to vigorous competition.

Our ILEC subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state governments, which have the power to regulate intrastate rates and services, including local, long-distance and network access services, provided such state regulation is consistent with federal law. Some states have eliminated or reduced regulations on our retail offerings. In addition, many states have adopted legislation that enables us to provide IP-based video service through a single statewide or state-approved franchise to offer a competitive video product. These subsidiaries are also subject to the jurisdiction of the FCC with respect to intercarrier compensation, interconnection, and interstate and international rates and services, including interstate access charges. Access charges are a form of intercarrier compensation designed to reimburse our wireline subsidiaries for the use of their networks by other carriers.

Our subsidiaries operating outside the United States are subject to the jurisdiction of national and supranational regulatory authorities in the market where service is provided.

The following discussion highlights significant regulatory issues directly affecting our operations:

Communications Segment

Wireless
The industry-wide deployment of 5G technology, which is needed to satisfy extensive demand for video and internet access, will involve significant deployment of “small cell” equipment and therefore increase the need for local permitting processes that allow for the placement of small cell equipment on reasonable timelines and terms. Federal regulations also can delay and impede broadband services, including small cell equipment. In March, August and September 2018, the FCC adopted orders to streamline the wireless infrastructure review process in order to facilitate deployment of next-generation wireless facilities. Specifically, the FCC’s March 2018 Order streamlined historical, tribal, and environmental review requirements for wireless infrastructure, including the exclusion of most small cell facilities from such review. The Order was appealed and in August 2019, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the FCC’s finding that most small cell facilities are excluded from review, but otherwise upheld the FCC’s Order. The FCC’s August and September 2018 Orders simplified the regulations for attaching telecommunications equipment to utility poles and clarified when local government right-of-way access and use restrictions can be preempted because they unlawfully prohibit the provision of telecommunications services. Those orders were appealed to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals, which in August 2020 largely upheld the FCC Orders. Those orders have been appealed and the various appeals remain pending in the D.C. Circuit and 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. In addition, to date, 31 states and Puerto Rico have adopted legislation to facilitate small cell deployment.

Internet
In February 2015, the FCC released an order classifying both fixed and mobile consumer broadband internet access services as telecommunications services, subject to Title II of the Communications Act. The Order, which represented a departure from longstanding bipartisan precedent, significantly expanded the FCC’s authority to regulate broadband internet access services, as well as internet interconnection arrangements. In December 2017, the FCC reversed its 2015 decision by reclassifying fixed and mobile consumer broadband services as information services and repealing most of the rules that were adopted in 2015. In lieu of broad conduct prohibitions, the order requires internet service providers to disclose information about their network practices and terms of service, including whether they block or throttle internet traffic or offer paid prioritization. On October 1, 2019, the D.C. Circuit issued a unanimous opinion upholding the FCC’s reclassification of broadband as an information service, and its reliance on transparency requirements and competitive marketplace dynamics to safeguard net neutrality. While the court vacated the FCC’s express preemption of any state regulation of net neutrality, it stressed that its ruling did not prevent the FCC or ISPs from relying on conflict preemption to invalidate particular state laws that are inconsistent with the FCC’s regulatory objectives and framework. The court also remanded the matter to the FCC for further consideration of the impact of reclassifying broadband services as information services on public safety, the Lifeline program, and pole attachment regulation. In October 2020, the FCC adopted an order concluding that those issues did not justify reversing its decision to reclassify
10
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
broadband services as information services. An appeal of the FCC’s remand decision is pending.

Following the FCC’s 2017 decision to reclassify broadband as information services, a number of states adopted legislation to reimpose the very rules the FCC repealed. In some cases, state legislation imposes requirements that go beyond the FCC’s February 2015 order. Additionally, some state governors have issued executive orders that effectively reimpose the repealed requirements. Suits have been filed concerning laws in California and Vermont. Both lawsuits were stayed pursuant to agreements by those states not to enforce their laws pending final resolution of all appeals of the FCC’s December 2017 order. Because that order is now final, the California suit has returned to active status. Nonetheless, enforcement of both the California and Vermont laws remain stayed pending a ruling by a U.S. District Court in California on motions for a preliminary injunction against enforcement of the California law. Argument on those motions is now scheduled for February 2021. We expect that going forward additional states may seek to impose net neutrality requirements. We will continue to support congressional action to codify a set of standard consumer rules for the internet.

Privacy-related legislation continues to be adopted or considered in a number of jurisdictions. Legislative, regulatory and litigation actions could result in significant penalties, increased costs of compliance, further regulation or claims against broadband internet access service providers and others, and increased uncertainty in the value and availability of data.

WarnerMedia Segment

WarnerMedia creates, owns and distributes intellectual property, including copyrights, trademarks and licenses of intellectual property. To protect its intellectual property, WarnerMedia relies on a combination of laws and license agreements. Outside the U.S., laws and regulations relating to intellectual property protection and the effective enforcement of these laws and regulations vary greatly from country to country. The European Union is pursuing legislative and regulatory initiatives which could impact WarnerMedia’s activities in the EU. Piracy, particularly of digital content, continues to threaten revenues from WarnerMedia’s products and services, as well as revenues from our pay TV business, and we work to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including technological and legislative solutions. Outside the U.S., various laws and regulations, as well as trade agreements with the U.S., also apply to the distribution or licensing of feature films for exhibition in theaters and on broadcast and cable networks. For example, in certain countries, including China, laws and regulations limit the number of foreign films exhibited in such countries in a calendar year.

Additional information relating to regulation of our subsidiaries is contained under the headings “Operating Environment Overview” and “Regulatory Developments” of Item 7.

IMPORTANCE, DURATION AND EFFECT OF LICENSES

Certain of our subsidiaries own or have licenses to various patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property necessary to conduct business. Many of our subsidiaries also hold government-issued licenses or franchises to provide wireline, satellite or wireless services. Additional information relating to regulation affecting those rights is contained under the heading “Operating Environment Overview,” of Item 7. We actively pursue patents, trademarks and service marks to protect our intellectual property within the United States and abroad. We maintain a significant global portfolio of patents, trademarks and service mark registrations. We have also entered into agreements that permit other companies, in exchange for fees and rights, and subject to appropriate safeguards and restrictions, to utilize certain of our patents, trademarks and service marks. As we transition our network from a switch-based network to an IP, software-based network, we have increasingly entered into licensing agreements with software developers.

We periodically receive offers from third parties to obtain licenses for patents and other intellectual rights in exchange for royalties or other payments. We also receive notices asserting that our products or services sold to customers or software-based network functions infringe on their patents and other intellectual property rights. These claims, whether against us directly, such as network functions or against third-party suppliers of products or services that we, in turn, sell to our customers, such as wireless handsets, could require us to pay damages, royalties, stop offering the relevant products or services and/or cease network functions or other activities. While the outcome of any litigation is uncertain, we do not believe that the resolution of any of these infringement claims or the expiration or non-renewal of any of our intellectual property rights would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

11
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
MAJOR CUSTOMERS

No customer accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in 2020, 2019 or 2018.


COMPETITION

Competition continues to increase for communications, media entertainment and digital services from traditional and nontraditional competitors. Technological advances have expanded the types and uses of services and products available. In addition, lack of or a reduced level of regulation of comparable legacy services has lowered costs for alternative communications service providers. As a result, we face continuing competition as well as some new opportunities in significant portions of our business.

Wireless We face substantial competition in our wireless businesses. Under current FCC rules, multiple licensees, who provide wireless services on the cellular, PCS, Advanced Wireless Services, 700 MHz and other spectrum bands, may operate in each of our U.S. service areas. Our competitors include two national wireless providers; a larger number of regional providers and resellers of those services; and certain cable companies. In addition, we face competition from providers who offer voice, text messaging and other services as applications on data networks. We are one of four facilities-based providers in Mexico (retail and wholesale), with the most significant market share controlled by América Móvil. We may experience significant competition from companies that provide similar services using other communications technologies and services. While some of these technologies and services are now operational, others are being developed or may be developed. We compete for customers based principally on service/device offerings, price, network quality, coverage area and customer service.

Video/Broadband Our businesses providing communications and digital entertainment services will face continued competitive pressure in 2021 from multiple providers, including wireless, satellite, cable, online video providers, and resellers. In addition, the desire for high-speed data on demand, including video, is continuing to lead customers to terminate their traditional wired or linear services and use our or competitors’ wireless, satellite and internet-based services. We have launched our own video OTT and/or streaming options to attract or retain customers that do not want a full-scale traditional video package. In most U.S. markets, we compete for customers with large cable companies for high-speed internet, video and voice services and other smaller telecommunications companies for both long-distance and local services. In addition, in Latin American countries served by our Vrio subsidiary, we also face competition from other video providers, including América Móvil and Telefónica.

Legacy Voice and Data We continue to lose legacy voice and data subscribers due to competitors (e.g., wireless, cable and VoIP providers) who can provide comparable services at lower prices because they are not subject to traditional telephone industry regulation (or the extent of regulation they are subject to is in dispute), utilize different technologies or promote a different business model (such as advertising-based). In response to these competitive pressures, for a number of years we have used a bundling strategy that rewards customers who consolidate their services with us. We continue to focus on bundling services, including combined packages of wireless and video service through our IP-based services. We will continue to develop innovative and integrated services that capitalize on our wireless and IP-based network.

Additionally, we provide local and interstate telephone and switched services to other service providers, primarily large internet service providers using the largest class of nationwide internet networks (internet backbone), wireless carriers, other telephone companies, cable companies and systems integrators. These services are subject to additional competitive pressures from the development of new technologies, the introduction of innovative offerings and increasing satellite, wireless, fiber-optic and cable transmission capacity for services. We face a number of international competitors, including Orange Business Services, BT, Singapore Telecommunications Limited and Verizon Communications Inc., as well as competition from a number of large systems integrators.

Media Our WarnerMedia businesses face shifts in consumer viewing patterns, increased competition from streaming services and the expansion by other companies, in particular, technology companies. In May 2020, we launched HBO Max, our platform for premium content and video offered directly to consumers, as well as through our traditional distributors.

12
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
WarnerMedia competes with other studios and television production groups and independents to produce and sell programming. Many television networks and online platforms have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced their demand for programming from non-affiliated production companies. WarnerMedia also faces competition from other television networks, online platforms, and premium pay television services for distribution and marketing of its television networks and premium pay and basic tier television services by affiliates.

Our WarnerMedia businesses compete with other production companies and studios for the services of producers, directors, writers, actors and others and for the acquisition of literary properties. In recent years, technology companies also have begun to produce programming and compete with WarnerMedia for talent and property rights.

Advertising The increased amount of consumer time spent online and on mobile activities has resulted in the shift of advertising budgets away from traditional television to digital advertising. WarnerMedia’s advertising-supported television networks and digital properties compete with streaming services, other networks and digital properties, print, radio and other media. Our programmatic advertising business faces competition from a variety of technology companies. Similar to all participants in the advertising technology sector, we contend with the dominance of Google, as well as the influence of Facebook, whose practices may result in the decreased ability and willingness of advertisers and programmers to adopt programmatic solutions offered by alternative suppliers.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

AT&T scientists and engineers conduct research in a variety of areas, including IP networking, advanced network design and architecture, network and cyber security, network operations support systems, satellite technology, video platform development and data analytics. The majority of the development activities are performed to create new services and to invent tools and systems to manage secure and reliable networks for us and our customers. Research and development expenses were $1,210 in 2020, $1,276 in 2019, and $1,194 in 2018.

HUMAN CAPITAL

Number of Employees As of January 31, 2021, we employed approximately 230,000 persons.

Employee Development We believe our success depends on our employees’ success and that all employees must have the skills they need to thrive. We offer training and elective courses that give employees the opportunity to enhance their skills. We also intend to help cultivate the next generation of talent that will lead our company into the future by providing employees with educational opportunities through our award-winning internal training organization, AT&T University.

Labor Contracts Approximately 37% of our employees are represented by the Communications Workers of America (CWA), the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) or other unions. After expiration of the collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages or labor disruptions may occur in the absence of new contracts or other agreements being reached. There are no significant contracts expiring in 2021. A contract covering approximately 14,000 Mobility employees in 36 states and the District of Columbia that was set to expire in February 2021 was extended until February 2022. A contract covering approximately 10,000 Mobility employees in nine Southeast states that was set to expire in February 2022 was extended until February 2023.

Compensation and Benefits In addition to salaries, we provide a variety of benefit programs to help meet the needs of our employees. These programs cover active and former employees and may vary by subsidiary and region. These programs include 401(k) plans, pension benefits, and health and welfare benefits, among many others. In addition to our active employee base, at December 31, 2020, we had approximately 517,000 retirees and dependents that were eligible to receive retiree benefits.

We review our benefit plans to maintain competitive packages that reflect the needs of our workforce. We also adapt our compensation model to provide fair and inclusive pay practices across our business. We are committed to pay equity for employees who hold the same jobs, work in the same geographic area, and have the same levels of experience and performance.

13
								
AT&T Inc.
Dollars in millions except per share amounts
Employee Safety We provide our employees access to flexible and convenient health and welfare programs and workplace accommodations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we consulted with medical professionals to institute policies that best protected our employees and their families. We have prioritized self-care and emphasized a focus on wellness, providing personal protective equipment, flexible scheduling or time-off options and implementing technologies to enhance the necessary remote-work environment. As we look to life and operations beyond the pandemic, we are revising our business models to support flexible office space and at-home productivity for many employees on a permanent basis.

Diversity and Inclusion We believe that championing diversity and fostering inclusion do more than just make us a better company, they contribute to a world where people are empowered to be their very best. That is why one of our core values is to stand for equality and why our mission is to inspire human progress through the power of communication and entertainment.

To have a diverse and inclusive workforce, we have put an emphasis on attracting and hiring talented people who represent a mix of genders, races, abilities and experiences. Across the AT&T family of companies, we have employee groups that reflect our diverse workforce. These groups are not only organized around women, people of color, LGBTQ+ individuals, people with disabilities and veterans, but also around professionals who are experienced or interested in cybersecurity, engineering, innovation, project management and media and entertainment technology. When everyone’s unique story is celebrated, we are able to connect, create and innovate in real and meaningful ways. It is important that our employees feel valued, have a sense of belonging and are fully engaged in our success.
