Item 1.	Business 
Who We Are
Teledyne Technologies Incorporated (“Teledyne” or the “Company”), a Delaware company that spun off
from Allegheny Technologies Incorporated as an independent company in 1999, provides enabling technologies for industrial growth markets that require advanced technology and high reliability. These markets include aerospace and defense, factory automation, air and water quality environmental monitoring, electronics design and development, oceanographic research, deepwater oil and gas exploration and production, medical imaging and pharmaceutical research. We differentiate ourselves from many of our direct competitors by having a customer and Company-sponsored applied research center that augments our product development expertise. We believe that technological capabilities and innovation and the ability to invest in the
development of new and enhanced products are critical to obtaining and maintaining leadership in our markets and
the industries in which we compete.
For discussion on our business and strategy for 2019 and 2018 see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2019; for a discussion of our 2019 acquisitions, see Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Recent Developments
On January 4, 2021, we announced together with FLIR Systems, Inc. (“FLIR”) that the companies have entered into a definitive merger agreement under which we will acquire FLIR in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately $8.0 billion. Under the terms of the merger agreement, FLIR stockholders will receive $28.00 per share in cash and 0.0718 shares of our common stock for each FLIR share, which implies a total purchase price of approximately $56.00 per FLIR share based on the 5-day volume weighted average price of our stock as of December 31, 2020.
The transaction is expected to close in the middle of 2021 subject to the receipt of required regulatory approvals, including expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act (the “HSR Act”) approvals of our stockholders and FLIR stockholders and other customary closing conditions.
Our Business Segments
Our businesses are aligned in four segments: Instrumentation, Digital Imaging, Aerospace and Defense Electronics and Engineered Systems. Financial information about our business segments can be found in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 2021 (this “Form 10-K”).
Instrumentation Segment
Our Instrumentation segment provides monitoring and control instruments for marine, environmental, industrial and other applications, and electronic test and measurement equipment. We also provide power and communications connectivity devices for distributed instrumentation systems and sensor networks deployed in mission critical, harsh environments.
Our Instrumentation segment represented approximately 35% of our sales for 2020. Below is a description of the product lines that comprise the Instrumentation segment.
Marine Instrumentation
We offer a variety of products designed for use in harsh underwater environments, instruments that measure currents and other physical properties in the water column, systems that create acoustic images of objects beneath the water’s surface, including the bottom of a body of water, and sensors that determine the geologic structure below the bottom. We also design and manufacture vehicles that utilize and transport these sensors over and beneath the water’s surface.
We provide a broad range of end-to-end undersea interconnect solutions to the offshore oil and gas, naval defense, oceanographic and telecom markets. We manufacture subsea, wet-mateable electrical and fiber-optic interconnect systems and subsea pressure vessel penetrators and connector systems with glass-to-metal seals. Our waterproof and splash-proof neoprene and glass reinforced epoxy connectors and cable assemblies are used in underwater equipment, submerged monitoring systems and other industrial applications. Other marine products used by the U.S. Navy and commercial customers include acoustic modems for networked underwater communication and optical underwater cameras and LED lighting sources.
We manufacture complete autonomous-operated underwater vehicles systems. Glider applications range from oceanographic research to persistent surveillance systems for the U.S. Navy. We also design and manufacture remotely operated underwater vehicles used in maritime security, military, search and rescue, aquaculture, and scientific research applications.

1
Table of Contents
Environmental Instrumentation
We offer a wide range of products used for environmental monitoring. Our instrumentation monitors trace levels of gases such as sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen and ozone, as well as particulate pollution, in order to measure the quality of the air we breathe. We also supply monitoring systems for the detection, measurement and automated reporting of air pollutants from industrial stack emissions, ozone generators and other process gas monitoring instruments. Our instrumentation is used to detect a variety of water quality parameters and in applications found in petrochemical and refinery facilities.
We also manufacture and provide complementary laboratory instrumentation including through laboratory automation and sample introduction systems which automates the preparation and concentration of organic samples.
Our advanced elemental analysis products are used by environmental and quality control laboratories to detect trace levels of inorganic contaminants in water, foods, soils and other environmental and geological samples. We manufacture high-precision pumps utilized in a wide variety of analytical, research clinical, preparative and fluid-metering applications. In addition, we manufacture liquid chromatography instruments and accessories for the purification of organic compounds, which include highly sensitive evaporative light scanning detectors, primarily for pharmaceutical laboratories involved in drug discovery and development. Finally, we manufacture instruments that are used by pharmaceutical scientists to evaluate the release rate characteristics and physical properties of various dosage forms to ensure the safety and efficacy of medicines worldwide.
Test and Measurement Instrumentation
We believe our test and measurement products provide unique, world-class capabilities that enable the designers of complex electronic systems in many industry sectors to bring their products to market reliably and quickly. Our customers use our equipment in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment in broad range of industry end markets, including aerospace and defense, internet infrastructure, automotive, industrial, computer and semiconductor, consumer electronics and power electronics.
We develop, manufacture, sell and license high-performance oscilloscopes, high-speed protocol analyzers, and related
test and measurement solutions for a wide range of industries. Our oscilloscopes are used by designers and engineers to measure and analyze complex electronic signals to develop high-performance systems, validate electronic designs, and improve time to market. We also make high-speed, high-resolution modular analog-to-digital conversion systems for applications including test and measurement, medical imaging, Light Detection and Ranging, and software defined radio.
Design and test engineers use our protocol analysis solutions to monitor accurately and reliably high data-rate communication interfaces and diagnose operational problems in a wide range of systems and devices to ensure that they comply with industry standards, including the area of cloud computing and networks. Our product lines, along with our leadership in USB technology, provide a unique base to service the mobile, internet of things, automotive and consumer electronics test market. Our most recent acquisition of OakGate Technology, Inc. (“OakGate”) during 2020 provides protocol validation and test tools for disk drives, both spinning and solid state, and servers used for cloud-based storage.
We also manufacture torque sensors and automatic data acquisition systems that are used to test critical control valves in nuclear power and industrial plants. Our torque sensors are also used in other markets, including automotive and power tools.
Digital Imaging Segment
Our Digital Imaging segment includes high-performance sensors, cameras and systems, within the visible, infrared, ultraviolet and X-ray spectra for use in industrial, scientific, government, defense and security and medical applications, among others. We also produce and provide manufacturing services for micro electromechanical systems (“MEMS”) and high-performance, high-reliability semiconductors including analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog converters. This segment also includes our sponsored and centralized research laboratories.
Our Digital Imaging segment represented approximately 32% of our sales for 2020.
Through this segment, we design, develop and manufacture image sensors and digital cameras for use in industrial, scientific, academic research and medical applications and hardware and software for image processing and automatic data collection in industrial, academic research and medical applications. We also develop high-resolution, low-dose X-Ray sensors for medical, dental and industrial applications.
We provide research and engineering capabilities primarily in the areas of electronics, materials, optical systems, and information science to military, aerospace and industrial customers, as well as to various businesses throughout Teledyne. We receive funding from the Defense Advanced Research Products Agency and various other U.S. Department of Defense funding agencies, and we collaborate with researchers at universities and national laboratories to stay at the forefront of emerging technologies. Through our 2019 acquisition of the scientific imaging businesses of Roper Technologies, Inc., we manufacture state-of-the-art cameras, spectrographs and optics for advanced research in physical sciences, life sciences research and spectroscopy imaging for applications and markets that include materials analysis, quantum technology and cell biology imaging using fluorescence and chemiluminescence.
2
Table of Contents
Aerospace and Defense Electronics Segment
Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment provides sophisticated electronic components and subsystems, data acquisition and communications components and equipment, harsh environment interconnects, general aviation batteries and other components for a variety of commercial and defense applications that require high performance and high reliability. Such applications include aircraft, radar, electronic warfare, weapon systems, space, wireless and satellite communications and terminals and test equipment.
Our Aerospace and Defense Electronics segment represented approximately 19% of our sales for 2020.
We provide onboard avionics systems and ground-based applications that allow civil and military aircraft software operators to access, manage and utilize their data more efficiently. Our products include aircraft data and connectivity solutions, hardware systems, and software applications used by commercial airlines and the U.S. military, and we provide services related to our products.
Engineered Systems Segment
Our Engineered Systems segment provides innovative systems engineering, integration and advanced technology development, and complex manufacturing solutions for defense, space, environmental and energy applications. This segment also designs and manufactures electrochemical energy systems and manufactures specialty electronics for demanding military applications.
Our Engineered Systems segment represented approximately 14% of our sales for 2020.
Our core business base, includes NASA, the U.S. Department of Defense, the U.S. Department of Energy, foreign militaries and commercial customers.
Customers
We have a large number of customers in the various industries we serve. No commercial customer in 2020 or 2019 accounted for more than 3.0% of total net sales or more than 10% of any segments net sales.
Sales to international customers accounted for approximately 45% of total sales in 2020 compared with 44% in 2019. In both 2020 and 2019, we sold products to customers in over 100 foreign countries. Approximately 90% of our sales to international customers during 2020 were made to customers in 22 foreign countries. In 2020, the top five countries for sales to international customers, ranked by sales, volume were China, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan and France and represented approximately 20% of our total net sales.
Approximately 26% and 24% of our total net sales for 2020 and 2019, respectively, were derived from contracts with agencies of, and prime contractors to, the U.S. Government. Information on our sales to the U.S. Government, including direct sales as a prime contractor and indirect sales as a subcontractor, is as follows (in millions):
U.S. Government sales by segment:	  	2020		2019		2018	Instrumentation	  	$	80.6 			$	80.4 			$	68.3 		Digital Imaging	  	120.9 			107.4 			90.5 		Aerospace and Defense Electronics	  	229.9 			225.3 			177.2 		Engineered Systems	  	386.8 			346.7 			319.3 		Total U.S. Government sales	  	$	818.2 			$	759.8 			$	655.3 	 
Our principal U.S. Government customer is the U.S. Department of Defense, which totaled approximately $578.4 million and $545.5 million of our total net sales for 2020 and 2019, respectively. In 2020 and 2019, our largest program with the U.S. Government was the Mission Operations and Integration contract with the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center, which represented 1.5% and 1.4% of our total net sales, respectively.
As described in greater detail under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-K, there are risks associated with doing business with the U.S. Government. In 2020, approximately 67% of our U.S. Government prime contracts and subcontracts were fixed-price type contracts, compared to 64% in 2019. Under these types of contracts, we bear the inherent risk that actual performance cost may exceed the fixed contract price. Such contracts are typically not subject to renegotiation of profits if we fail to anticipate technical problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs during performance. Additionally, U.S. Government contracts are subject to termination by the U.S. Government at its convenience, without identification of any default. When contracts are terminated for convenience, we recover costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. We had no U.S. Government contracts terminated for convenience in 2020, compared with three in 2019.
Many of our government contracts are awarded after a competitive bidding process in which we seek to emphasize our ability to provide superior products and technical solutions in addition to competitive pricing.
Our total backlog of confirmed and funded orders was approximately $1,700.2 million at January 3, 2021, compared with $1,699.3 million at December 29, 2019. We expect to fulfill more than 77% of such backlog of confirmed orders during 2021.
3
Table of Contents

Raw Materials and Suppliers
Generally, our businesses have experienced minimal fluctuations in the supply of raw materials, but not without some price volatility. While some of our businesses provide services, for those businesses that sell hardware and product, a portion of the value that we provide is labor-oriented, such as design, engineering, assembly and test activities. In manufacturing our products, we use our own production capabilities and third-party suppliers and subcontractors, including international sources. Some of the items we use for the manufacture of our products, including certain components for particular marine navigation applications, certain magnets and helix wire for our traveling wave tubes, certain infrared detectors substrates and certain ceramics and molding compounds used in our sonar systems, as well as certain scintillator materials used in the production of our X-Ray detectors, are purchased from limited or single sources, including international sources, due to technical capability, price and other factors. At times we have experienced difficulty in procuring raw materials, components, sub-assemblies and other supplies required in our manufacturing processes due to shortages and supplier-imposed allocation of components. We did not experience significant difficulty in obtaining raw materials and/or other supplies during 2020.
Marketing
Our sales and marketing approach varies by segment and by products within our segments. A shared fundamental tenet is the commitment to work closely with our customers to understand their needs, with an aim to secure preferred supplier and longer-term relationships. Given the technical nature of our products, we conduct our domestic and international marketing
activities through a direct internal sales force, as well as third-party sales representatives and distributors, both in the United
States and in other countries.
Competition
Because of the diversity of products sold and the number of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of
competitors, none of which we believe offer the same product and service lines or serve all of the same markets as we do. Although we have certain advantages that we believe help us compete effectively in our markets, each of our markets is highly competitive. With regard to our defense businesses, it is common in the defense industry for work on programs to be shared among several companies, including competitors. Our businesses vigorously compete on quality, product performance and reliability, technical expertise, price and service. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors could have, greater name recognition, a larger installed base of products, more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution capabilities and greater financial, technological and personnel resources than we do.
Intellectual Property
We own and control various intellectual property rights, including patents, trade secrets, confidential information, trademarks, trade names, and copyrights. We are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. Similarly, other companies are licensed to use certain patents, technology and other intellectual property rights owned and controlled by us. We do not consider any single patent or trademark, or any group
of them, essential either to Teledyne’s business as a whole or to any one of our reportable segments. The annual royalties
received or paid under license agreements are not significant to any of our reportable segments or to Teledyne’s overall
operations.
Patents, patent applications and license agreements will expire or terminate over time by operation of law, in accordance with their terms or otherwise. We do not expect the expiration or termination of these patents, patent applications and license agreements to have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition.
Environment and Other Government Regulations
Information with respect to environmental matters is set forth under “Other Matters – Environmental” of “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operation and Financial Condition” and Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. No material capital expenditures relating to environmental or other government regulatory compliance are presently anticipated.
Sustainability
Teledyne continues to focus on developing solutions to address sustainability and climate challenges facing humanity today. Many of our products directly support sustainability and climate challenges. We provide a broad range of precision measurement technologies for environmental monitoring and climate research. Our sensors and instruments are deployed everywhere, from pole to pole, in space, on aircraft and drones, on land, on the sea surface, in the water column, and on the seafloor. They operate around the clock, measuring greenhouse gases from space, precisely monitoring air and water quality throughout the world, and continuously profiling all of Earth’s oceans. Applications of our instruments provide scientists information that spans time from the origin of the universe to providing real-time data regarding air pollution and dangerous storms, such as time-critical warning of hurricanes and tsunamis.
4
Table of Contents

Board Oversight
Pursuant to the mandate in their respective charters, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the “Board”) regularly reviews matters related to compliance with environmental laws and the health and safety of employees, and the Nominating and Governance Committee of our Board reviews and evaluates our policies and practices and monitors our efforts in areas of legal and social responsibility, diversity and sustainability.
Human Capital
We consider our relations with our employees to be good. At January 3, 2021, our total workforce consisted of approximately 10,670 employees in more than 25 countries. Workforce demographics for various regions are provided below:
Gender		Percent to Total Employees	Average Age	Average Years of Service	Male	Female	Not Specified	Americas	72%	49.1	11.4	59%	34%	7%	Europe, the Middle East and Africa	26%	44.9	11.3	56%	22%	22%	Asia-Pacific Region	2%	42.4	7.6	42%	20%	38% 
Employees are vital to the success of our innovation-driven growth strategy. We are focused on effective attraction, development, and retention of employees through competitive compensation and benefits, workforce and management development, diversity and inclusion initiatives, succession planning, corporate culture and leadership quality.
We have a stable and long-tenured workforce. In 2020, our average voluntary employee turnover (excluding reductions in force) was approximately 9%. As of January 3, 2021, the average years of service of our employees was approximately 11 years.
We are committed to identifying and developing the talents of our next generation of leaders. On an annual basis, we conduct an organization and leadership review with our Executive Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer for all segment, business unit, and function leaders, focusing on our high performing and high potential talent, diversity and succession for our most critical roles. From this review, individualized development and retention programs are implemented or revised as needed.
With the oversight of our Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer, and Secretary and our Vice President of Human Resources, our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee has piloted an anonymized resume review process to evaluate the potential for name bias when reviewing potential candidates, expanded recruitment sources, and enhanced diversity training and awareness.
Available Information
Teledyne’s website is www.teledyne.com. We make available on our website, free of charge, annual
reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K pursuant to Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) at www.sec.gov. We will provide, free of charge, a paper copy of any report we file with the SEC (without exhibits) upon written request to Melanie S. Cibik, Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary, at Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, 1049 Camino Dos Rios, Thousand Oaks, California 91360-2362.