ITEM 1. Business
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
The TJX Companies, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, “TJX”, the “Company”, “we”, or “our”) is the leading off-price apparel and home fashions retailer in the United States and worldwide. We have over 4,500 stores and four distinctive branded e-commerce sites that offer a rapidly changing assortment of quality, fashionable, brand name and designer merchandise at prices generally 20% to 60% below full-price retailers’ (including department, specialty, and major online retailers) regular prices on comparable merchandise, every day.
Our mission is to deliver great value to our customers every day. In our stores and online, we offer consumers our value proposition of brand, fashion, price and quality. Our opportunistic buying strategies and flexible business model differentiate us from traditional retailers. We offer a treasure hunt shopping experience and a rapid turn of inventories relative to traditional retailers. Our goal is to create a sense of excitement and urgency for our customers and encourage frequent customer visits. We acquire merchandise in a variety of ways to support that goal. We reach a broad range of customers across income levels with our value proposition on a wide range of items. Our strategies and operations are synergistic across our retail chains. As a result, we are able to leverage our expertise throughout our business, sharing information, best practices, initiatives and new ideas, and to develop talent across our Company. Further, we can leverage the substantial buying power of our businesses with our global vendor relationships.
During fiscal 2021, our business operations were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition to the temporary closures and reopenings of our stores and other facilities, the pandemic has led to modifications of our operations, including the implementation of health and safety protocols, and has had an impact on our results of operations, financial position and liquidity, as well as consumer behavior. See Risk Factors and Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations below for more information.
In this report, fiscal 2021 means the fiscal year ended January 30, 2021; fiscal 2020 means the fiscal year ended February 1, 2020 and fiscal 2019 means the fiscal year ended February 2, 2019. Fiscal 2022 means the fiscal year ending January 29, 2022. Unless otherwise indicated, all store information in this Item 1 is as of January 30, 2021, and references to store square footage are to gross square feet.
Our Businesses
We operate our business in four main segments: Marmaxx and HomeGoods, both in the U.S., TJX Canada and TJX International.
MARMAXX
Our T.J. Maxx and Marshalls chains in the United States (“Marmaxx”) are collectively the largest off-price retailer in the United States with a total of 2,402 stores. We founded T.J. Maxx in 1976 and acquired Marshalls in 1995. Both chains sell family apparel (including footwear and accessories), home fashions (including home basics, decorative accessories and giftware) and other merchandise. We primarily differentiate T.J. Maxx and Marshalls through different product assortment, including an expanded assortment of fine jewelry and accessories and a high-end designer section called The Runway at T.J. Maxx and a full line of footwear, a broader men’s offering and a juniors’ department called The Cube at Marshalls, as well as varying in-store initiatives. This differentiated shopping experience at T.J. Maxx and Marshalls encourages our customers to shop both chains. Marmaxx currently operates two e-commerce websites, tjmaxx.com, launched in 2013 and marshalls.com launched in 2019.
HOMEGOODS
Our HomeGoods segment, introduced in 1992, is the leading off-price retailer of home fashions in the U.S. Through its 821 stores, HomeGoods offers an eclectic assortment of home fashions, including furniture, rugs, lighting, soft home, decorative accessories, tabletop and cookware as well as expanded pet, kids and gourmet food departments. In 2017, we launched Homesense in the U.S. Our 34 Homesense stores complement HomeGoods, offering a differentiated mix and expanded departments, such as large furniture, ceiling lighting and rugs, as well as different departments, such as a general store and an entertaining marketplace. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we announced our plan to make online shopping available on www.homegoods.com in late fiscal 2022.
4

TJX CANADA
Our TJX Canada segment operates the Winners, HomeSense and Marshalls chains in Canada. Acquired as a five-store chain in 1990, Winners is now the leading off-price apparel and home fashions retailer in Canada. The merchandise offering at its 280 stores across Canada is comparable to T.J. Maxx, with select stores offering fine jewelry, and The Runway, a designer section. We opened our HomeSense chain in 2001, bringing the home fashions off-price concept to Canada. HomeSense has 143 stores with a merchandise mix of home fashions similar to HomeGoods in the U.S. We brought Marshalls to Canada in 2011. We operate 102 Marshalls stores in Canada and, similar to Marshalls in the U.S., our Canadian stores offer an expanded footwear department and The Cube juniors’ department, differentiating them from Winners stores.
TJX INTERNATIONAL
Our TJX International segment operates the T.K. Maxx and Homesense chains in Europe and the T.K. Maxx chain in Australia. Launched in 1994, T.K. Maxx introduced off-price retail to Europe and remains Europe’s only major brick-and-mortar off-price retailer of apparel and home fashions. With 602 stores, T.K. Maxx operates in the U.K., Ireland, Germany, Poland, Austria and the Netherlands. Through its stores and its e-commerce website for the U.K., tkmaxx.com, T.K. Maxx offers a merchandise mix similar to T.J. Maxx. We brought the off-price home fashions concept to Europe, opening Homesense in the U.K. in 2008 and in Ireland in 2017. Its 78 stores offer a merchandise mix of home fashions similar to that of HomeGoods in the U.S. and HomeSense in Canada. We acquired Trade Secret in Australia in 2015 and re-branded it under the T.K. Maxx name during 2017. The merchandise offering at T.K. Maxx in Australia's 62 stores is comparable to T.J. Maxx.
In addition to our four main segments, we operate Sierra, acquired in 2012 and rebranded from Sierra Trading Post in 2018. Sierra is an off-price retailer of brand name and quality outdoor gear, family apparel (including footwear), sporting goods and home fashions. Sierra operates sierra.com and 48 retail stores in the U.S. The results of Sierra are included in our Marmaxx segment.
Flexible Business Model
Our flexible off-price business model, including our opportunistic buying, inventory management, logistics and flexible store layouts, is designed to deliver our customers a compelling value proposition of fashionable, quality, brand name and designer merchandise at excellent values every day. Our buying and inventory management strategies give us flexibility to adjust our merchandise assortments more frequently than traditional retailers, and the design and operation of our stores and distribution centers support this flexibility. Our buyers have more visibility into consumer, fashion and market trends and pricing when we buy closer to need, which can help us “buy smarter” and reduce our markdown exposure. Our selling floor space is flexible, without walls between departments and largely free of permanent fixtures, so we can easily expand and contract departments to accommodate the merchandise we purchase. Our logistics and distribution operations are designed to support our global buying strategies and to facilitate quick, efficient and differentiated delivery of merchandise to our stores, with a goal of delivering the right merchandise to the right stores at the right time.
Opportunistic Buying
As an off-price retailer, our buying practices, which we refer to as opportunistic buying, differentiate us from traditional retailers. Our overall global buying strategy is to acquire merchandise on an ongoing basis that will enable us to offer a desirable and rapidly changing mix of branded, designer and other quality merchandise in our stores at prices below regular prices for comparable merchandise at full-price retailers, including department, specialty, and major online retailers. We seek out and select merchandise from the broad range of opportunities in the market to achieve this end. Our global buying organization, which numbers over 1,100 Associates and has offices across 4 continents in 12 countries, executes this opportunistic buying strategy, buying merchandise from more than 100 countries in a variety of ways, depending on market conditions and other factors.
5

We take advantage of opportunities to acquire merchandise at substantial discounts that regularly arise from the production and flow of inventory in the apparel and home fashions marketplace. These opportunities include, among others, closeouts from brands, manufacturers and other retailers; special production direct from brands and factories; order cancellations and manufacturer overruns. Our global buying strategies are intentionally flexible to allow us to react to frequently changing opportunities and trends in the market and to adjust how and what we source as well as when we source it. Our goal is to operate with lean inventory levels compared to conventional retailers to give us the flexibility to seek out and to take advantage of these opportunities as they arise, close to the time it is needed in our stores and online and when we have more visibility into fashion trends and price. In contrast to traditional retailers, which tend to order most of their goods far in advance of the time the product appears on the selling floor, our merchants generally remain in the marketplace for goods throughout the year, frequently looking for opportunities to buy merchandise. We buy much of our merchandise for the current or immediately upcoming selling season. We also buy some merchandise that is available in the market with the intention of storing it for sale, typically in future selling seasons. We generally make these purchases, referred to as packaway, in response to opportunities to buy merchandise that we believe has the right combination of brand, fashion, price and quality to supplement the product we expect to be available to purchase later for those future seasons. We also acquire some merchandise that we offer under in-house brands or brands that are licensed to us. We develop some of this merchandise ourselves in order to supplement the depth of, or fill gaps in, our expected merchandise assortment.
Manufacturers, retailers and other vendors make up our expansive universe of approximately 21,000 vendors, which provides us substantial and diversified access to merchandise. We have not experienced difficulty in obtaining sufficient quality merchandise for our business in either favorable or difficult retail environments and expect this will continue as we continue to grow. We believe a number of factors provide us excellent access on an ongoing basis to leading branded merchandise and make us an attractive channel for many vendors in the market. We are typically willing to purchase less-than-full assortments of items, styles and sizes as well as quantities ranging from small to very large; we are able to disperse merchandise across our geographically diverse network of stores and to target specific markets; we typically pay promptly according to our payment terms; we generally do not ask for typical retail concessions (such as advertising, promotional and markdown allowances), delivery concessions (such as drop shipments to stores or delayed deliveries) or return privileges; and we have an excellent credit rating.
Inventory Management
We offer our customers a rapidly changing selection of merchandise to create a treasure hunt experience in our stores and to spur frequent customer visits. To achieve this, we seek to turn the inventory in our stores rapidly, regularly offering fresh selections of apparel and home fashions at excellent values. Our specialized inventory planning, purchasing, monitoring and markdown systems, coupled with distribution center storage, processing, handling and shipping systems, enable us to tailor the merchandise in our stores to local preferences and demographics, achieve rapid in-store inventory turnover on a vast array of products and generally sell through most merchandise within the period we planned. We make pricing and markdown decisions and store inventory replenishment determinations centrally, using information provided by specialized computer systems designed to move inventory through our stores in a timely and disciplined manner. We invest in our supply chain with the goal of continuing to operate with low inventory levels, to ship more efficiently and quickly, and to more precisely and effectively allocate merchandise to each store.
Pricing
Our mission is to deliver great value to our customers every day. We do this by offering quality, fashionable, brand name and designer merchandise in our stores with retail prices that are generally 20% to 60% below full-price retailers’ (including department, specialty, and major online retailers) regular prices on comparable merchandise, every day. We do not generally engage in promotional pricing activity such as sales or coupons. We have generally been able to react to price fluctuations in the wholesale market to maintain our pricing gap relative to prices offered by traditional retailers as well as our merchandise margins through various economic cycles.
Low Cost Operations
We operate with a low cost structure compared to many traditional retailers. We focus aggressively on expenses throughout our business. Our advertising is generally focused on promoting our retail banners rather than individual products, including at times promoting multiple banners together, which contributes to our advertising budget (as a percentage of sales) remaining low compared to many traditional retailers. We design our stores to provide a pleasant, convenient shopping environment without spending heavily on store fixtures. Additionally, our distribution network is designed to run cost effectively.
6

Customer Service/Shopping Experience
Our general practice is to renovate and upgrade our stores across our retail banners to enhance our customers’ shopping experience and help drive sales. Although we offer a self-service format, we train our store Associates to provide friendly and helpful customer service and seek to staff our stores to deliver a positive shopping experience. We typically offer customer-friendly return policies. We accept a variety of payment methods including cash, credit cards and debit cards. We also offer TJX-branded credit cards in the U.S. through a bank, but do not own the customer receivables.
Distribution
We operate distribution centers encompassing approximately 22 million square feet in six countries. These centers are generally large, and built to suit our specific, off-price business model, with a combination of automated systems and manual processes to manage the variety of merchandise we acquire. We ship substantially all of our merchandise to our stores through a network of distribution centers and warehouses as well as shipping centers operated by third parties.
Store Growth
Expansion of our business through the addition of new stores continues to be an important part of our global growth strategy. The following table provides store growth information for our four major segments for the two most recently completed fiscal years, as well as our estimates of the long-term store growth potential of these segments in their current geographies:
  	Approximate
Average Store
Size (square feet)	Number of Stores at Year End	Estimated Store
Potential	  	Fiscal 2020	Fiscal 2021	Marmaxx:						T.J. Maxx	27,000	1,273 		1,271 				Marshalls	29,000	1,130 		1,131 		 		Total Marmaxx	 	2,403 		2,402 		3,000 			HomeGoods:						HomeGoods	23,000	809 		821 				Homesense	27,000	32 		34 		 		Total HomeGoods	 	841 		855 		1,500 			TJX Canada:						Winners	27,000	279 		280 				HomeSense	23,000	137 		143 				Marshalls	27,000	97 		102 		 		Total TJX Canada	 	513 		525 		650 			TJX International:						T.K. Maxx (Europe)	28,000	594 		602 				Homesense (Europe)	19,000	78 		78 				T.K. Maxx (Australia)	21,000	54 		62 		 		Total TJX International	 	726 		742 		1,125 		
(a)
TJX Total(b)
 	4,529 		4,572 		6,275 		 
(a)Reflects store growth potential for T.K. Maxx in current geographies and for Homesense in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
(b)Includes 46 Sierra stores in fiscal 2020, and 48 Sierra stores for fiscal 2021. Sierra stores are not included in estimated store potential.        
Some of our home fashion stores are co-located with one of our apparel stores in a “combo” or superstore format. We count each of the stores in the combo or superstore format as a separate store.
Competition
The retail apparel and home fashion business is highly competitive. We compete on the basis of numerous factors including brand, fashion, price, quality, selection and freshness; in-store and online shopping experience and service; reputation and store location. We compete with local, regional, national and international department, specialty, off-price, discount, warehouse and outlet stores as well as other retailers that sell apparel, home fashions and other merchandise that we sell, whether in stores, online, through catalogs, or other media channels.
7

Human Capital
As of January 30, 2021, we had approximately 320,000 employees (who we refer to as Associates), many of whom work less than 40 hours per week. Approximately 86% of these Associates worked in our retail stores. We hire thousands of temporary employees each year, particularly during the peak back-to-school and holiday seasons, and offer many entry-level retail positions. Many Associates in our distribution centers in the United States and Canada are covered by collective bargaining agreements and other Associates are members of works councils in Europe. Our large, global workforce supports the execution of our flexible off-price business model, including the timing and frequency of store deliveries and the management of a rapidly changing mix of merchandise in over 4,500 retail stores in nine countries and across four distinctive branded e-commerce sites. We believe our Associates are key to our business success.
Focus on Health, Safety and Well-being during the COVID-19 Pandemic
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we developed and implemented new practices that prioritized the health and safety of our Associates and customers, and reopened stores only when practices were in place, including social distancing protocols, access to personal protective equipment, occupancy limits and enhanced cleaning regimens. During fiscal 2021, we also continued to pay or provide benefits for eligible Associates during temporary closures, provided appreciation bonuses to the majority of our store and distribution center Associates, and enhanced our mental health resources and other wellness offerings.
Workplace and Culture
We work to foster a strong, supportive culture where Associates at TJX feel welcome in the Company, valued for their contributions, and engaged with our business mission. We use defined cultural factors and leadership competencies throughout our global business to express our organizational values, such as personal integrity, relationship-building and collaboration, and respect for our business model, and to promote consistency in leadership development. Our policies and practices, including our open-door philosophy, encourage open and honest communication and engagement with the business.
Inclusion and Diversity
We strive to create an inclusive workplace, where Associates are inspired to work hard, challenge themselves, and be innovative in their thinking, and we believe the diversity of our Associates strengthens our business. We have expanded our education programs and resources, including training on unconscious biases, and we sponsor a variety of affinity resource groups to support Associate networking and development. During fiscal 2021 we accelerated our efforts on inclusion and diversity, including those related to racial justice, and have begun to deploy a global, four-phase strategy to drive these efforts.
Training and Career Development
We are highly focused on teaching and mentoring to support the career growth and success of our Associates, and we believe these efforts have promoted stability and expertise in our workforce. Training happens broadly throughout the organization, from informal mentoring and direct training to a range of career and leadership development programs such as our TJX University for merchandising Associates.
Compensation and Rewards
Our compensation programs are designed to pay our Associates competitively in the market and based on their skills, qualifications, role, and abilities. Our approach to compensation across the organization reflects our global total rewards principles, which include encouraging teamwork and collaboration, being fair and equitable, and sharing in the success of the Company.
Trademarks
We have the right to use our principal trademarks and service marks, which are T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, HomeGoods, Winners, Homesense/HomeSense, T.K. Maxx, Sierra and Sierra Trading Post, in relevant countries. We expect our rights in these trademarks and service marks to endure in locations where we use them for as long as we continue to do so.
Seasonality
Our business is subject to seasonal influences. In the second half of the year, which includes the back-to-school and year-end holiday seasons, we generally realize higher levels of sales and income.
8

SEC Filings and Certifications
Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, proxy statements, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K filed with or furnished to the SEC, and any amendments to those documents, are available free of charge on our website, tjx.com, under “SEC Filings,” as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. They are also available free of charge from TJX Global Communications, 770 Cochituate Road, Framingham, Massachusetts 01701. The SEC maintains a website containing all reports, proxies, information statements, and all other information (www.sec.gov).
Information appearing on tjx.com is not a part of, and is not incorporated by reference in, this Form 10-K.
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The following are the executive officers of TJX as of March 31, 2021:
Name	Age	Office and Business Experience	Kenneth Canestrari	59	Senior Executive Vice President, Group President since September 2014. President, HomeGoods from 2012 to September 2014. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, HomeGoods from 2008 until 2012. Various financial positions with TJX from 1988 to 2008.	Scott Goldenberg	67	Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2014; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from January 2012 to April 2014. Executive Vice President, Finance from June 2009 to January 2012. Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller from 2007 to 2009 and Senior Vice President, Director of Finance, Marmaxx, from 2000 to 2007. Various financial positions with TJX from 1983 to 1988 and 1997 to 2000.	Ernie Herrman	60	Chief Executive Officer since January 2016. Director since October 2015. President since January 2011. Senior Executive Vice President, Group President from August 2008 to January 2011. President, Marmaxx from 2005 to 2008. Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Marmaxx from 2004 to 2005. Executive Vice President, Merchandising, Marmaxx from 2001 to 2004. Various merchandising positions with TJX since joining in 1989.	Carol Meyrowitz	67	Executive Chairman of the Board since January 2016. Chairman of the Board from June 2015 to January 2016. Chief Executive Officer from January 2007 to January 2016. Director since 2006 and President from 2005 to January 2011. Consultant to TJX from January 2005 to October 2005. Senior Executive Vice President from March 2004 to January 2005. President, Marmaxx from 2001 to January 2005. Executive Vice President of TJX from 2001 to 2004. Various senior management and merchandising positions with Marmaxx and with Chadwick’s of Boston and Hit or Miss, former divisions of TJX, from 1983 to 2001.	Douglas Mizzi	61	Senior Executive Vice President, Group President since February 2018. President, TJX Canada from October 2011 to February 2018. Managing Director T.K. Maxx, UK from April 2010 to October 2011. Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, WMI from February 2006 to April 2010. Senior Vice President, Director of Store Operations, WMI from 2004 to 2006. Various store operations positions with TJX from 1988 to 2004.	Richard Sherr	64	Senior Executive Vice President, Group President since January 2012. President, HomeGoods from 2010 to 2012. Chief Operating Officer, Marmaxx from 2007 until 2010. Various merchandising positions at TJX from 1992 to 2007. 
The executive officers hold office until the next annual meeting of the Board in June 2021 and until their successors are elected and qualified.
