
Item 1.Business.

T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. is a financial services holding company that provides global investment management services through its subsidiaries to investors worldwide. We provide an array of U.S. mutual funds, subadvised funds, separately managed accounts, collective investment trusts, and other T. Rowe Price products. The other
T. Rowe Price products include: open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S. and products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. We also provide certain investment advisory clients with related administrative services, including distribution, mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans; brokerage; trust services; and non-discretionary advisory services through model delivery. We are focused on delivering global investment management excellence to help clients around the world achieve their long-term investment goals.

The late Thomas Rowe Price, Jr., founded our firm in 1937, and the common stock of T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. was first offered to the public in 1986. The T. Rowe Price Group, Inc. corporate holding company structure was established in 2000.

Our core capabilities have enabled us to deliver excellent operating results since our initial public offering. We maintain a strong corporate culture that is focused on delivering strong long-term investment performance and world-class service to our clients. We distribute our broad array of active investment strategies through a diverse set of distribution channels and vehicles to meet the needs of our clients globally. Our ongoing financial strength and discipline has allowed us to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities and invest in key capabilities. Our investments have been focused on increasing our investment professional headcount globally, expanding our product offerings, expanding our global distribution footprint to strengthen our regional relationships and brand, and investing in new technology and the core infrastructure of the firm.

The industry in which we operate has been evolving quickly and a number of headwinds have arisen over the last few years, including passive investments taking market share from traditional active strategies; continued downward fee pressure; demand for new investment vehicles to meet client needs; capacity challenges with some of our mutual funds and portfolios and an ever-changing regulatory landscape.

Despite the headwinds, we believe there are significant opportunities that align to our core capabilities. As such, we have been responding with several multi-year initiatives that are designed to strengthen our long-term competitive position and to:

•Maintain our position as a premier active asset manager, delivering durable value to clients.
•Build T. Rowe Price into a more globally diversified asset manager.
•Extend and leverage our retirement expertise globally while becoming an ever more integrated investment solutions provider.
•Embed best practices for sustainability and environmental, social and corporate governance throughout the company.
•Maintain strong processes and controls, which is increasingly important with growing business complexity and regulation.
•Remain a destination of choice for top talent, with a culture of diversity, inclusivity, empowerment, accountability and collaboration.
•Deliver attractive financial results and balance sheet strength for our stockholders over the long term.

Financial Overview / Assets Under Management

We derive the vast majority of our consolidated net revenues and net income from investment advisory services provided by our subsidiaries, primarily T. Rowe Price Associates and T. Rowe Price International Ltd. In November 2020, we announced our plan to establish T. Rowe Price Investment Management, a separate SEC-registered investment advisor, to support our continued focus on generating strong investment results for clients. T. Rowe Price Investment Management is anticipated to begin operations in the second half of 2022.

Our revenues depend largely on the total value and composition of our assets under management. Accordingly, fluctuations in financial markets and in the composition of assets under management impact our revenues and results of operations.
20
Page 2

Table of Contents                    

At December 31, 2020, we had $1,470.5 billion in assets under management, including $794.6 billion in U.S. mutual funds, $400.1 billion in subadvised funds and separately managed accounts, and $275.8 billion in collective investment trusts, and other T. Rowe Price products. Assets under management increased $263.7 billion from the end of 2019. This increase was driven by market appreciation and income, net of distributions not reinvested, of $256.9 billion and net cash inflows of $5.6 billion for 2020. In addition, we acquired client contracts from PNC Bank during 2020 that added $1.2 billion of stable value assets under management.

The following tables show our assets under management by vehicle, asset class, distribution channel, and account type:
(in billions)	2020		2019	Assets under management by vehicle				U.S. mutual funds	$	794.6 			$	682.7 	Subadvised and separately managed accounts	400.1 			313.8 		T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts and other sponsored investment products:				  Collective investment trusts	199.6 			158.7 		  Stable value, variable annuity products, and exchange-traded funds	28.0 			21.4 		  SICAVs and other sponsored funds regulated outside the U.S.	48.2 			30.2 		Total T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts and other sponsored investment products	275.8 			210.3 		Total assets under management	$	1,470.5 			$	1,206.8 						Assets under management by asset class				Equity	$	895.8 			$	698.9 		Fixed income, including money market	168.7 			147.9 		
Multi-Asset(1)
406.0 			360.0 		Total assets under management	$	1,470.5 			$	1,206.8 						Assets under management by distribution channel				
Global financial intermediaries(2)
$	765.4 			$	623.0 		
Global institutions(2)(3)
335.9 			265.4 		Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis	221.7 			190.7 		U.S. retirement plan sponsors - full service recordkeeping	147.5 			127.7 		Total assets under management	$	1,470.5 			$	1,206.8 						Assets under management by account type				Defined contribution retirement assets:				Defined contribution - investment only	$	614.0 			$	510.6 		Defined contribution - full-service recordkeeping	136.0 			121.0 		Total defined contribution retirement assets	750.0 			631.6 		Deferred annuity and direct retail retirement assets	219.6 			186.0 		Total defined contribution, deferred annuity, and direct retail retirement assets	969.6 			817.6 		Other	500.9 			389.2 		Total assets under management	$	1,470.5 			$	1,206.8 	 
(1) The underlying assets under management of the multi-asset portfolios have been aggregated and presented in this category and not reported in the equity and fixed income rows.
(2) Includes Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia Pacific ("APAC").
(3) Includes T. Rowe Price investments in proprietary products, assets of the T. Rowe Price employee benefit plans, Private Asset Management accounts, and other.

In 2020, our target date retirement products experienced net cash outflows of $6.5 billion. The assets under management in our target date retirement products totaled $332.2 billion at December 31, 2020, or 22.6% of our managed assets at December 31, 2020, compared with 24.2% at the end of 2019.

Additional information concerning our assets under management, results of operations, and financial condition during the past three years is contained in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7, as well as our consolidated financial statements, which are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
20
Page 3

Table of Contents                    

INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES.

Distribution Channels and Products

We distribute our products across three broad geographical regions: Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), and Asia Pacific ("APAC"). We service clients in 51 countries around the world. Investors domiciled outside the U.S. represented over 9% of total assets under management at the end of 2020.

We accumulate our assets under management from a diversified client base across five primary distribution channels: Americas financial intermediaries, EMEA & APAC financial intermediaries, individual U.S. investors on a direct basis, U.S. retirement plan sponsors for which we provide recordkeeping services, and global institutional investors. The following table outlines the types of products within each distribution channel through which our assets under management are sourced as of December 31, 2020.
Americas financial intermediaries		EMEA & APAC financial intermediaries		Individual U.S. investors on a direct basis		U.S. retirement plan sponsors - full service recordkeeping		Global institutions										U.S. Mutual Funds		
SICAVs(1) / FCPs(2)
U.S. Mutual Funds		U.S. Mutual Funds		U.S. Mutual Funds	Collective Investment Trusts		Australian Unit Trusts ("AUTs")		Separate Accounts		Collective Investment Trusts		Collective Investment Trusts	Subadvised Accounts		
OEICs(3)
College Savings Plans		Separate Accounts		
SICAVs(1) / FCPs(2)
Managed Accounts / Model Delivery		Subadvised Accounts		
Model Portfolios(4)
Separate / Subadvised Accounts	College Savings Plans		
Japanese ITMs(5)
Active Exchange-Traded Funds				Canadian Pooled Funds	Canadian Pooled Funds		Managed Accounts / Model Delivery						
Japanese ITMs(5)
Active Exchange-Traded Funds								Cayman Funds 
(1)Société d'Investissement à Capital Variable (Luxembourg), (2)Fonds Commun de Placement (Luxembourg), (3)Open-Ended Investment Company (U.K.), (4)Provided through our ActivePlus Portfolios, (5)Japanese Investment Trust Management Funds

Investment Capabilities

We manage a broad range of investment strategies in equity, fixed income, and multi-asset across sectors, styles and regions. Our strategies are designed to meet the varied and changing needs and objectives of investors and are delivered across a range of vehicles. We also offer specialized advisory services, including management of stable value investment contracts, modeled multi-asset solutions, and a distribution management service for the disposition of equity securities our clients receive from third-party venture capital investment pools.

20
Page 4

Table of Contents                    
The following tables set forth our broad investment capabilities as of December 31, 2020.

Equity	Growth	Core	Value	Concentrated	Quantitative	Sustainable	U.S.:	All-Cap, Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap, Sectors	Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap	Large-Cap, Mid-Cap, Small-Cap	Large-Cap (Growth & Value)	Large-Cap (Value), Multi-Cap, Small-Cap	Large-Cap (Growth & Value)	Global / International:	All-Cap, Large-Cap, Small-Cap, Sectors, Regional	Large-Cap	Large-Cap	Large-Cap	Large-Cap (Growth & Value)	All-Cap, Large-Cap 

Fixed Income	Cash /
Stable Value	High Yield / Bank Loans	Emerging Markets	Credit	Multi-Sector	Government / Securitized	Municipal	U.S.:	Stable Value, Taxable, Tax-Exempt	Credit Opportunities, Bank Loans, High Yield	N/R	Investment Grade Corporate, Long Duration	Enhanced Index, Short-Term, Core, Core Plus, Investment Grade Core, Total Return, Ultra Short-Term	Inflation Protection, Securitized/GNMA, Treasury	High Yield, Intermediate, Long-Term, Short/Intermediate	Global / International:	N/R	Euro High Yield, High Income, High Yield	Corporate, Hard Currency, Local Currency	Asia Credit, Dynamic Credit, Dynamic Investment Grade Corporate, Investment Grade Corporate, Euro Investment Grade Corporate	Global Multi-Sector, Aggregate, Global ex US	Government	N/R 
N/R - Not relevant

Multi-Asset	U.S. / Global / International:	Target Date, Custom Target Date	Target Allocation	Global Allocation	Global Income	Managed Volatility	Custom Solutions	Real Assets	Retirement Income	Alternatives	 

We employ fundamental and quantitative security analysis in the performance of the investment advisory function through substantial internal equity and fixed income investment research capabilities. We perform original industry and company research using such sources as inspection of corporate activities, management interviews, company-published financials and other information, and field checks with suppliers and competitors in the same industry and particular business sector. Our dedicated, in-house research analysts consider tangible investment factors, such as financial information, valuation, and macroeconomics in tandem with intangible environmental, social, and corporate governance investment factors.

Our research staff operates primarily from offices located in the U.S. and U.K. with additional staff based in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, and Switzerland. We also use research provided by brokerage firms and security analysts in a supportive capacity and information received from private economists, political observers, commentators, government experts, and market analysts. Our securities selection process for some investment portfolios is based on quantitative analysis using computerized data modeling.

From time to time, we introduce new strategies, investment vehicles, and other products to complement and expand our investment offerings, respond to competitive developments in the financial marketplace, and meet the changing
20
Page 5

Table of Contents                    
needs of our investment advisory clients. We will introduce a new investment strategy if we believe that we have the appropriate investment management expertise and that its objective will be useful to investors over a long period. In 2020, we introduced six new strategies and several new vehicles, like our active exchange-traded funds, and share classes of existing strategies.

We typically provide seed capital for new investment products to enable the portfolio manager to begin building an investment performance history in advance of the portfolio receiving sustainable client assets. The length of time we hold our seed capital investment will vary for each new investment product as it is highly dependent on how long it takes to generate cash flows into the product from unrelated investors. We attempt to ensure that the new investment product has a sustainable level of assets from unrelated shareholders before we consider redemption of our seed capital investment in order to not negatively impact the new investment product's net asset value or its investment performance record. At December 31, 2020, we had seed capital investments in our products of $1.2 billion.

We may also close or limit new investments to new investors across T. Rowe Price investment products in order to maintain the integrity of the investment strategy and to protect the interests of its existing shareholders and investors. At present, the following strategies, which represent about 20% of total assets under management at December 31, 2020, are generally closed to new investors:
Strategy	Year closed	U.S. Mid-Cap Growth	2010High Yield Bond	2012	U.S. Small-Cap Growth	2013	U.S. Small-Cap Core	2013	Capital Appreciation	2014Emerging Markets Growth	2018	International Small-Cap Growth	2018 

Investment Advisory Fees

We provide investment advisory services through our subsidiaries to the U.S. mutual funds; clients on a subadvised or separately managed account basis; collective investment trusts; and other T. Rowe Price products, including funds offered to investors outside the U.S. and portfolios offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S.

Nearly 64% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our U.S. mutual funds, while about 36% of our investment advisory fees are earned from our other investment portfolios. Ten of our 177 U.S. mutual funds - Blue Chip Growth, Growth Stock, Capital Appreciation, New Horizons, Mid-Cap Growth, Large-Cap Growth, Health Sciences, International Discovery, Equity Income, and Emerging Markets Stock - accounted for approximately 30% of our investment advisory revenues in 2020, and approximately 22% of our assets under management at December 31, 2020. Our largest client account relationship, apart from the U.S. mutual funds, is with a third-party financial intermediary that accounted for about 7% of our investment advisory revenues in 2020.

U.S. Mutual Funds

At December 31, 2020, assets under our management in the U.S. mutual funds aggregated $794.6 billion, an increase of 16.4% or $111.9 billion from the beginning of the year. Investment advisory services are provided to each U.S. mutual fund under individual investment management agreements that grant the fund the right to use the
T. Rowe Price name. The Boards of the respective funds, including a majority of directors who are not interested persons of the funds or of T. Rowe Price Group (as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940), must approve the investment management agreements annually. Fund shareholders approve material changes to these investment management agreements. Each agreement automatically terminates in the event of its assignment (as defined in the Investment Company Act) and, generally, either party may terminate the agreement without penalty after a 60-day notice. The termination of one or more of these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Independent directors and trustees of the U.S. mutual funds regularly review our fee structures.

20
Page 6

Table of Contents                    
The advisory fee paid monthly by each of the U.S. mutual funds is computed on a daily basis by multiplying a fund’s net assets by its effective fee rate. For the majority of the U.S. mutual funds, the fee rate is equal to the sum of a tiered group fee rate plus an individual fund rate. The tiered group rate is based on the combined net assets of nearly all of the U.S. mutual funds. If the combined net assets of these U.S. mutual funds exceed $845 billion, the weighted-average fee across pricing tiers is 28.1 basis points for the first $845 billion of net assets plus 26.0 basis points for net assets in excess of $845 billion. To the extent that the combined net assets of the funds included in the group rate calculation increase, the group charge component of a fund's advisory fee rate and the resulting advisory fee rate paid by each fund will decrease.

The individual fund rates are generally flat rates that are set based on the fund’s specific investment objective. Several funds, including the Blue Chip Growth, Equity Income, Growth Stock, and Mid-Cap Growth funds, have an effective tiered individual fund rate in which their base individual flat rate is reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $15 billion. The New Income and Value funds have their base individual flat rate reduced by about 15% on net assets in excess of $20 billion. The Capital Appreciation Fund has its base individual flat rate reduced by 10% on net assets in excess of $27.5 billion. The effective fee rates for each of the stock and bond funds on which we earned annual advisory fees of approximately $6.0 million or greater in 2020, varied from a low of 21 basis points for the Limited Duration Inflation Focused Bond Fund to a high of 104 basis points for the International Discovery fund.

The fee rate of several of the U.S. mutual funds, including the Target-Date and Index funds as well as specific funds offered solely to institutional investors, does not include a group fee component but rather an individual fund fee or an all-inclusive fee. An all-inclusive fee covers both the investment management fee and ordinary operating expenses incurred by the fund and, as a result, our management fee varies with the level of operating expenses a fund incurs. In the second quarter of 2020, the fee structure of the target date retirement funds changed that the investment advisory fee revenue is now earned at the target date retirement fund level rather than at the underlying mutual fund level. The Spectrum Funds series we offer have no separate investment advisory fee; rather, they bear the expenses of the funds in which they invest.

Each U.S. mutual fund typically bears all expenses associated with its operation and the issuance and redemption of its securities. In particular, each fund pays investment advisory fees; shareholder servicing fees and expenses; fund accounting fees and expenses; transfer and sub-transfer agent fees; custodian fees and expenses; legal and auditing fees; expenses of preparing, printing and mailing prospectuses and shareholder reports to existing shareholders; registration fees and expenses; proxy and annual meeting expenses; and independent trustee or director fees and expenses.

We usually provide that a newly organized fund’s expenses will not exceed a specified percentage of its net assets during an initial operating period. Generally, during the earlier portion of the period, we will waive advisory fees and absorb other fund expenses, such as those described above, in excess of these self-imposed limits. During the latter portion of the period, we may recover some or all of the waived fees and absorbed costs, but such recovery is not assured.

Additionally, we have contractual management fee waivers for certain U.S mutual funds, including nearly all money market funds, which could occur under certain specified circumstances. Unlike traditional expense limits for newly organized funds, these waivers will not be recovered by T. Rowe Price in the future. Further to these contractual fee waivers, due to the low interest rate environment in 2020, we voluntarily waived $20.4 million, or less than 1%, of our investment advisory fees from certain of our money market mutual funds, trusts, and other investment portfolios in order to maintain a positive yield for investors. We expect to continue to waive fees in 2021, and we currently anticipate that the waivers for the first quarter of 2021 will be at or slightly above the level of waivers experienced in the fourth quarter of 2020. We also expect that the fee waivers for the first quarter of 2021 will represent a high-water mark for fee waivers issued.
20
Page 7

Table of Contents                    

Subadvised funds, separate accounts, collective investment trusts, and other investment products

Our subadvised, separate accounts, collective investment trusts, and other investment products had assets under management of $675.9 billion at December 31, 2020, an increase of $151.8 billion from the beginning of the year. Other investment products include open-ended investment products offered to investors outside the U.S. and products offered through variable annuity life insurance plans in the U.S. We earn investment management fees from these clients based on, among other things, the specific investment services to be provided, and these investment management fees are computed using the value of assets under management at a contracted annual fee rate or the products' effective fee rate for those with a tiered-fee rate structure.

The value of assets under management billed is generally based on daily valuations, end of billing period valuations, or month-end average valuations. In 2020, approximately 78% of our advisory fees were recognized based on daily portfolio valuations, 15% were based on end of billing period valuations, and 7% were based on month-end averages.

Our standard subadvised client accounts normally pay a daily tiered rate and their agreement typically provides for termination with 60 days notice. For separately managed accounts, the fee is generally based on a period ending value and their agreements provide for termination at any time. Unearned fees paid in advance are refunded upon termination. We currently also earn performance-based investment advisory fees on certain separately managed accounts. These fees are currently immaterial to our total investment advisory fees and are only recognized when the performance condition has been met. This recognition criteria can lead to uneven recognition of performance-based revenue throughout the year.

Our U.S.collective investment trusts, sponsored by T. Rowe Price Trust Company and subscribed to by certain qualified U.S. retirement plans, normally pay an all-inclusive tiered rate investment management fee computed on a daily basis.

Our standard form of investment advisory agreement with other T. Rowe Price products that pay management fees on a daily basis normally provides for termination with 30 days notice. The following table details the services provided by certain of our subsidiaries based on our non-U.S. global investment products:
T. Rowe Price Subsidiary		Products		Services Provided	T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl		SICAVs / FCPs		Management company	T. Rowe Price Australia		AUTs		Investment management	T. Rowe Price UK		OEICs		Authorized corporate director	T. Rowe Price (Canada)		Canadian Pooled Funds		Investment management	T. Rowe Price Japan		Japanese ITMs		Investment management 

Our subsidiaries T. Rowe Price Associates, T. Rowe Price International, T. Rowe Price Hong Kong, T. Rowe Price Singapore, T. Rowe Price Australia and T. Rowe Price Japan, may also provide subadvised investment management services to those global investment products listed in the table above.

We distribute the products listed in the table above outside the U.S. through distribution agents and other financial intermediaries. The fees we earn for distributing and marketing these products are part of our overall investment management fees for managing the product assets. We currently recognize any related distribution fees paid to these financial intermediaries in distribution and servicing costs.

ADMINISTRATIVE, DISTRIBUTION, AND SERVICING FEES.

Administrative Services

We also provide certain administrative services as ancillary services to our investment advisory clients. These administrative services are provided by several of our subsidiaries and include mutual fund transfer agent, accounting, distribution, and shareholder services; participant recordkeeping and transfer agent services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in U.S. mutual funds; recordkeeping services for defined contribution retirement plans investing in mutual funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex; brokerage; trust services; and non-discretionary advisory services.
20
Page 8

Table of Contents                    

T. Rowe Price Services provides the U.S. mutual funds transfer agency and shareholder services, including the staff, facilities, technology, and other equipment to respond to inquiries from fund shareholders. The U.S. mutual funds contract directly with BNY Mellon to provide mutual fund accounting services, including maintenance of financial records, preparation of financial statements and reports, daily valuation of portfolio securities, and computation of each mutual fund's daily net asset value per share.

T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services provides participant accounting and plan administration for defined contribution retirement plans that invest in the U.S. mutual funds, the T. Rowe Price collective investment trusts, and funds outside the T. Rowe Price complex. T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services also provides transfer agent services to the U.S. mutual funds. The pricing on these transfer agent services is based on basis points of the related assets under management. Plan sponsors and participants compensate us for some of the administrative services while the U.S. mutual funds and outside fund families compensate us for maintaining and administering the individual participant accounts for those plans that invest in the respective funds. As of December 31, 2020, we provided recordkeeping services for $239 billion in assets under administration, of which nearly $148 billion are assets we manage.

T. Rowe Price Trust Company also provides administrative trustee services. Through this entity, which is a Maryland-chartered limited service trust company, we serve as trustee for employer sponsored retirement plans and other retirement products. T. Rowe Price Trust Company may not accept deposits and cannot make personal or commercial loans. Our trust vehicles are not mutual funds. As such, trust requirements can result in lower compliance and administrative costs over other vehicles with a similar investment strategy. Our trust vehicles include investments in equity, fixed income and multi-asset assets.

We also provide discretionary and non-discretionary advisory planning services to individual investors through our subsidiary T. Rowe Price Advisory Services, Inc. These services are limited in scope, and advice recommendations consist solely of mutual funds advised by T. Rowe Price Associates or its affiliates that have been selected for inclusion in these services. These services include, but are not limited to, point-in-time financial planning, asset allocation advice, and discretionary advice through a solely digital experience.

Certain T. Rowe Price subsidiaries also provide non-discretionary advisory services to model delivered managed accounts. For these model delivered managed accounts, we provide the holdings and trades of the portfolio to the sponsor platforms to implement for their clients. The assets under advisement in these portfolios, predominantly in the United States, was $2.8 billion at December 31, 2020. The revenue earned on these services is recorded in administrative fees.

Distribution and Servicing

Our subsidiary, T. Rowe Price Investment Services ("TRPIS"), is the principal distributor of the U.S. mutual funds and contracts with third-party financial intermediaries who distribute these share classes. TRPIS enters into agreements with each intermediary under which each fund is responsible to pay the distribution and service fees directly to the applicable intermediaries. The Investor Class of all U.S. mutual funds can be purchased in the U.S. on a no-load basis, without a sales commission or 12b-1 fee. No-load mutual fund shares offer investors a low-cost and relatively easy method of directly investing in a variety of equity, fixed income, and multi-asset strategies. The I Class of certain U.S. mutual funds is designed to meet the needs of institutionally oriented clients who seek investment products with lower shareholder servicing costs and lower expense ratios. This share class limits ordinary operating expenses (other than interest; expenses related to borrowings, taxes, and brokerage; and any non-extraordinary expenses) to 5 basis points for a period of time and there are no external 12b-1 or administrative fee payments.

Certain of the U.S. mutual funds also offer Advisor Class and R Class shares that are distributed to investors and defined contribution retirement plans, respectively. These share classes pay 12b-1 fees of 25 and 50 basis points, respectively, for distribution, administration, and personal services. In addition, those U.S. mutual funds offered to investors through variable annuity life insurance plans have a share class that pays a 12b-1 fee of 25 basis points.

We believe that our lower fund cost structure, distribution methods, and fund shareholder and administrative services help promote the stability of our fund assets under management through market cycles.

20
Page 9

Table of Contents                    
We bear all advertising and promotion expenses associated with the distribution of our investment products. These costs are recognized when incurred and include advertising and direct mail communications to potential shareholders, as well as substantial staff and communications capabilities to respond to investor inquiries. Marketing and promotional efforts are focused in print media, television, and digital and social media. Advertising and promotion expenditures vary over time based on investor interest, market conditions, new and existing investment offerings, and the development and expansion of new marketing initiatives, including the enhancement of our digital capabilities.

REGULATION.

All aspects of our business are subject to extensive federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to benefit or protect our clients and T. Rowe Price product shareholders. They generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of our business in the event that we fail to comply with laws and regulations. Possible sanctions that may be imposed on us, in the event that we fail to comply, include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain business activities for specified periods of time, revocation of our investment adviser and other registrations, censures, and fines.

The following table shows the regulator to certain of our subsidiaries:
 
Regulator		T. Rowe Price Entity	Within the U.S.	Securities & Exchange Commission ("SEC")		 - T. Rowe Price Associates	 - T. Rowe Price Hong Kong			 - T. Rowe Price International	 - T. Rowe Price Japan			 - T. Rowe Price Australia	 - T. Rowe Price Singapore			 - T. Rowe Price (Canada)	 - T. Rowe Price Advisory Services							
All entities above are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, which imposes substantive regulation around, among other things, fiduciary duties to clients, transactions with clients, effective compliance programs, conflicts of interest, advertising, recordkeeping, reporting, and disclosure requirements.
State of Maryland, Commissioner of Financial Regulation		 - T. Rowe Price Trust Company					Outside the U.S.				Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA")		 - T. Rowe Price International				 - T. Rowe Price UK	Securities and Futures Commission ("SFC")		 - T. Rowe Price Hong Kong		Monetary Authority of Singapore ("MAS")		 - T. Rowe Price Singapore		Several provincial securities commissions in Canada		 - T. Rowe Price (Canada)		Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier ("CSSF")		 - T. Rowe Price (Luxembourg) Management Sàrl	Australian Securities and Investments Commission		 - T. Rowe Price Australia		Japan Financial Services Agency		 - T. Rowe Price Japan		
Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority
 - T. Rowe Price (Switzerland) 

Serving the needs of retirement savers is an important focus of our business. As a result, such activities are subject to regulators such as the U.S. Department of Labor, and applicable laws and regulations including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

Registrations
- Our subsidiaries providing transfer agent services, T. Rowe Price Services and T. Rowe Price Retirement Plan Services, are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
20
Page 10

Table of Contents                    
 
- T. Rowe Price Investment Services is a registered broker-dealer and member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA") and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation. This subsidiary provides brokerage services primarily to complement the other services provided to shareholders of the U.S. mutual funds. Pershing, a third-party clearing broker and an affiliate of BNY Mellon, maintains our brokerage’s customer accounts and clears all transactions.

- T. Rowe Price Associates and certain subsidiaries are registered as commodity trading advisors and/or commodity pool operators with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and are members of the National Futures Association.
 
Net Capital Requirements
Certain of our subsidiaries are subject to net capital requirements, including those of various federal, state, and international regulatory agencies. Each of our subsidiary's net capital, as defined, meets or exceeds all minimum requirements.
 
For further discussion of the potential impact of current or proposed legal or regulatory requirements, please see the Legal and Regulatory risk factors included in Item 1A of this Form 10-K.

COMPETITION.

As a member of the financial services industry, we are subject to substantial competition in all aspects of our business. A significant number of proprietary and other sponsors’ mutual funds are sold to the public by other investment management firms, broker-dealers, mutual fund companies, banks, and insurance companies. We compete with brokerage and investment banking firms, insurance companies, banks, mutual fund companies, hedge funds, and other financial institutions and funds in all aspects of our business and in every country in which we offer our advisory services. Some of these financial institutions have greater resources than we do. We compete with other providers of investment advisory services primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment products offered, investment performance, fees and related expenses, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services.

In recent years, we have faced significant competition from passive oriented investment strategies. As a result, such products have taken market share from active managers. While we cannot predict how much market share these competitors will gain, we believe there will always be demand for good active management.

In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we may review acquisition and venture opportunities and, if appropriate, engage in discussions and negotiations that could lead to the acquisition of a new equity or other financial relationship.

HUMAN CAPITAL.

At T. Rowe Price, our people set us apart. We thrive because our company culture is based on collaboration and diversity. We believe that our culture of collaboration enables us to identify opportunities others might overlook. Our associates’ knowledge, insight, enthusiasm, and creativity are the reason our clients succeed and our firm excels. In order to attract and retain the highest quality talent, we develop key talent and succession plans, invest in Company diversity and inclusion initiatives, provide opportunities for our associates to learn and grow, provide strong, competitive, and regionally specific benefits and programs that promote the health and wellness of our associates, both personally and financially. Our diversity and inclusion initiatives have garnered recognitions, including Pensions & Investments 2020 Best Places to Work in Money Management and Best Places to work for LGBTQ Equality by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation. Although we have made progress in our workforce diversity representation, we seek to continuously improve in this area. Our goal is to increase our hiring and the retention and development of talent from groups that are underrepresented in asset management, this includes both minorities and women. Pursuant to this goal, each year we establish annual corporate Diversity and Inclusion goals to continue improving our hiring, development, advancement, and retention of diverse talent and our overall diversity representation. At the end of 2020, women comprised 44% of our associates globally. In addition, at the end of 2020, 29% of our U.S. associates were racial and ethnic minorities. Furthermore, we are committed to pay equity for employees doing similar work, regardless of gender, race or ethnicity, and we conduct pay equity analyses on a regular basis and adjust our associates pay accordingly.

20
Page 11

Table of Contents                    
At December 31, 2020, we employed 7,678 associates, up 4.2% from the 7,365 associates employed at the end of 2019. We may add temporary and part-time personnel to our staff from time to time to meet periodic and special project demands, primarily for technology and mutual fund administrative services.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION.
Our Internet address is troweprice.com. We intend to use our website as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. These disclosures will be included in the Investor Relations section of our website, troweprice.gcs-web.com. We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, available free of charge in this section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed with the SEC. In addition, our website includes the following information:
•our financial statement information from our periodic SEC filings in the form of XBRL data files that may be used to facilitate computer-assisted investor analysis;

•corporate governance information including our governance guidelines, committee charters, senior officer code of ethics and conduct, and other governance-related policies;

•other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting, including our monthly assets under management disclosure; and

•opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time.

Accordingly, investors should monitor this section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public webcasts, all of which will be referenced on the website. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC.
The SEC maintains a website that contains the materials we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov.