PART I
Item 1.  BUSINESS
The Travelers Companies, Inc. (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) is a holding company principally engaged, through its subsidiaries, in providing a wide range of commercial and personal property and casualty insurance products and services to businesses, government units, associations and individuals. The Company is incorporated as a general business corporation under the laws of the State of Minnesota and is one of the oldest insurance organizations in the United States, dating back to 1853. The principal executive offices of the Company are located at 485 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017, and its telephone number is (917) 778-6000. The Company also maintains executive offices in Hartford, Connecticut, and St. Paul, Minnesota. The term “TRV” in this document refers to The Travelers Companies, Inc., the parent holding company excluding subsidiaries.

PROPERTY AND CASUALTY INSURANCE OPERATIONS
The property and casualty insurance industry is highly competitive in the areas of price, service, product offerings, agent relationships and methods of distribution. Distribution methods include the use of local independent agents, national agent partners, agency aggregators and carrier-based agencies, as well as direct to consumer, affinity and emerging partner platforms. According to A.M. Best, there are approximately 1,100 property and casualty groups in the United States, comprising approximately 2,600 property and casualty companies. Of those groups, the top 150 accounted for approximately 94% of the consolidated industry’s total net written premiums in 2019. The Company competes with both foreign and domestic insurers. In addition, several property and casualty insurers writing commercial lines of business, including the Company, offer products for alternative forms of risk protection in addition to traditional insurance products. These products include large deductible programs and various forms of self-insurance, some of which utilize captive insurance companies and risk retention groups. The Company’s competitive position in the marketplace is based on many factors, including the following:

•ability to profitably price business, retain existing customers and obtain new business;
•premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs);
•agent, broker and policyholder relationships;
•ability to keep pace relative to competitors with changes in technology and information systems;
•ability to use data and analytics to make decisions;
•speed of claims payment;
•ability to provide a positive customer experience;
•ability to provide products and services in a cost effective manner;
•ability to provide new products and services to meet changing customer needs;
•ability to adapt to changes in business models, technology, customer preferences or regulation impacting the markets in which the Company operates;
•perceived overall financial strength and corresponding ratings assigned by independent rating agencies;
•reputation, experience and qualifications of employees;
•geographic scope of business; and
•local presence.

In addition, the marketplace is affected by the available capacity of the insurance industry, as measured by statutory capital and surplus, and the availability of reinsurance from both traditional sources, such as reinsurance companies and capital markets (through catastrophe bonds), and non-traditional sources, such as hedge funds and pension plans. Industry capacity as measured by statutory capital and surplus expands and contracts primarily in conjunction with profit levels generated by the industry, less amounts returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Capital raised by debt and equity offerings may also increase statutory capital and surplus.

Pricing and Underwriting
Pricing of the Company’s property and casualty insurance products is generally developed based upon an estimation of expected losses, the expenses associated with producing, issuing and servicing business and managing claims, the time value of money related to the expected loss and expense cash flows, and a reasonable profit margin that considers the capital needed to support the Company’s business. The Company has a disciplined approach to underwriting and risk management that emphasizes product returns and profitable growth over the long-term rather than premium volume or market share. The Company’s insurance subsidiaries are subject to state laws and regulations regarding rate and policy form approvals. The applicable state laws and regulations establish standards in certain lines of business to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory, or used to engage in unfair price competition. The Company’s ability to increase rates and
3

the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each respective state’s requirements, as well as the competitive market environment.

Geographic Distribution
The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company’s consolidated direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Location		% of
Total	Domestic:		 	California		10.3 	%	New York		9.0 		Texas		7.9 		Pennsylvania		4.2 		Florida		4.1 		New Jersey		3.9 		Illinois		3.9 		Georgia		3.7 		Massachusetts		3.0 		
All other domestic (1)
43.9 		Total Domestic		93.9 		 		 	International:		 	Canada		3.9 		All other international		2.2 		Total International		6.1 		Consolidated total		100.0 	% 
___________________________________________
(1)    No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the Company’s consolidated direct written premiums written in 2020.

Catastrophe Exposure
The Company’s property and casualty insurance operations expose it to claims arising out of catastrophes. The Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to monitor and analyze underwriting risks of business in natural catastrophe-prone areas and target risk areas for conventional terrorist attacks (defined as attacks other than nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological events). The Company relies, in part, upon these analyses to make underwriting decisions designed to manage its exposure on catastrophe-exposed business. For example, as a result of these analyses, the Company has at various times limited the writing of new property and homeowners business in some markets and has selectively taken underwriting actions on new and existing business. These underwriting actions on new and existing business include tightening underwriting standards, selective price increases and changes to policy terms specific to hurricane-, tornado-, wind-, wildfire- and hail-prone areas. See “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Catastrophe Modeling” and “—Changing Climate Conditions.” The Company also utilizes reinsurance to manage its aggregate exposures to catastrophes. See “—Reinsurance.”

BUSINESS INSURANCE
Business Insurance offers a broad array of property and casualty insurance and insurance-related services to its customers, primarily in the United States, as well as in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and throughout other parts of the world as a corporate member of Lloyd’s.  Business Insurance is organized as follows:

Domestic
•Select Accounts provides small businesses with property and casualty insurance products and services, including commercial multi-peril, workers’ compensation, commercial automobile, general liability and commercial property.
4

•Middle Market provides mid-sized businesses with property and casualty insurance products and services, including workers’ compensation, general liability, commercial multi-peril, commercial automobile and commercial property, as well as risk management, claims handling and other services. Middle Market generally provides these products to mid-sized businesses through Commercial Accounts, as well as to targeted industries through Construction, Technology, Public Sector Services and Oil & Gas, and additionally, provides mono-line umbrella and excess coverage insurance through Excess Casualty. Middle Market also provides insurance for goods in transit and movable objects, as well as builders’ risk insurance, through Inland Marine; insurance for the marine transportation industry and related services, as well as other businesses involved in international trade, through Ocean Marine; and comprehensive breakdown for equipment, including property and business interruption, through Boiler & Machinery.
•National Accounts provides large companies with casualty insurance products and services, including workers’ compensation, commercial automobile and general liability, generally utilizing loss-sensitive products, on both a bundled and unbundled basis, as well as risk management, claims administration and other insurance-related services. National Accounts also includes the Company’s commercial residual market business, which primarily offers workers’ compensation claims, policy management and other administrative services related to the involuntary market.
•National Property and Other provides traditional and customized commercial property insurance programs to large and mid-sized customers through National Property. National Property and Other also provides insurance coverage for the commercial trucking industry through Northland Transportation and serves small- to medium-sized agricultural businesses, including farms, ranches and other agricultural-related operations through Agribusiness. National Property and Other also includes commercial property and general liability policies for small, difficult-to-place specialty classes of commercial business primarily on an excess and surplus lines basis through Northfield and also offers tailored property and casualty insurance programs on an admitted basis for customers with common risk characteristics or coverage requirements through National Programs.
International
•International, through operations in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, provides property and casualty insurance and risk management services to several customer groups, including, among others, those in the technology, manufacturing and public services industry sectors. International also provides insurance for both the foreign exposures of United States organizations and the United States exposures of foreign organizations through Global Services. At its Lloyd’s syndicate (Syndicate 5000), for which the Company provides 100% of the capital, International underwrites six principal businesses—international marine, retail marine, global property, construction & special risks, energy and aviation. 
Business Insurance also includes Simply Business, a leading provider of small business insurance policies primarily in the United Kingdom, and Business Insurance Other, which primarily comprises the Company’s asbestos and environmental liabilities, and the assumed reinsurance and certain other runoff operations.

Selected Market and Product Information
The following table sets forth Business Insurance’s net written premiums by market and product line for the periods indicated. For a description of the markets and product lines referred to in the table, see “—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution” and “—Product Lines,” respectively.
5

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)		2020		2019		2018		% of Total 2020	By market:		 		 		 		 	Domestic:		 		 		 		 	Select Accounts		$	2,821 			$	2,911 			$	2,828 			18.3 	%	Middle Market		8,511 			8,630 			8,214 			55.1 		National Accounts		996 			1,051 			1,025 			6.5 		National Property and Other		2,086 			1,965 			1,805 			13.5 		Total Domestic		14,414 			14,557 			13,872 			93.4 		International		1,017 			1,072 			1,084 			6.6 		Total Business Insurance by market		$	15,431 			$	15,629 			$	14,956 			100.0 	%	By product line:		 		 		 		 	Domestic:		 		 		 		 	Workers’ compensation		$	3,349 			$	3,806 			$	3,840 			21.7 	%	Commercial automobile		2,790 			2,736 			2,518 			18.1 		Commercial property		2,163 			2,014 			1,867 			14.0 		General liability		2,447 			2,416 			2,227 			15.8 		Commercial multi-peril		3,608 			3,542 			3,390 			23.4 		Other		57 			43 			30 			0.4 		Total Domestic		14,414 			14,557 			13,872 			93.4 		International		1,017 			1,072 			1,084 			6.6 		Total Business Insurance by product line		$	15,431 			$	15,629 			$	14,956 			100.0 	% 
Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution
Business Insurance markets and distributes products through thousands of independent agencies and brokers. Agencies and brokers are serviced by 92 field offices and supported by customer service centers where the Company performs services for agents for a fee and centralized business centers where the Company processes new and renewal business that meet certain underwriting criteria.

Business Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Business Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency’s or broker’s financial strength, staff experience and strategic fit with the Company’s operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, Business Insurance carefully monitors its performance. The majority of products offered in the United States are distributed through independent agents and brokers, many of whom also sell the Company’s Personal Insurance and Bond & Specialty Insurance products. Business Insurance continues to make significant investments to enable real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers.

Domestic 
•Select Accounts markets and distributes products and services to small businesses, generally with fewer than 50 employees, through a large network of independent agents and brokers. Products offered by Select Accounts are guaranteed-cost policies, including packaged products covering property and liability exposures.  Each small business risk is independently evaluated via an automated underwriting platform which in turn enables agents to quote, bind and issue a substantial amount of new small business risks in an efficient manner. Risks with more complex characteristics are underwritten with the assistance of Company personnel.
•Middle Market markets and distributes products and services primarily to mid-sized businesses with 50 to 1,000 employees through a large network of independent agents and brokers. The Company offers a full line of products to its Middle Market customers with an emphasis on guaranteed-cost programs. Each account is underwritten based on the unique risk characteristics, loss history and coverage needs of the account. The ability to underwrite at this detailed level allows Middle Market to have a broad risk appetite and a diversified customer base. Within Middle Market, products and services are tailored to certain targeted industry segments of significant size and complexity that require unique underwriting, claims handling services, risk management or other insurance-related products and services.
6

•National Accounts markets and distributes products and services to large companies through a network of national and regional brokers. Products offered by National Accounts are primarily casualty programs that utilize loss-sensitive products, such as large deductible, and to a lesser extent, retrospectively rated insurance and self-insured retention plans. National Accounts also offers insurance-related services, such as claims administration, risk management, loss control and risk management information services through Constitution State Services LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The commercial residual market business of National Accounts services approximately 37% of the total workers’ compensation assigned risk market, making the Company one of the largest servicing carriers in the industry.
•National Property and Other markets and distributes products and services to a wide customer base, providing traditional and customized insurance programs to a broad range of customer sizes through a large network of agents and brokers. National Property and Other also markets and distributes its products through brokers, wholesale agents, program managers and specialized retail agents who operate in certain markets that are not typically served by the Company’s appointed retail agents, or who maintain certain affinity arrangements in specialized market segments. The wholesale excess and surplus lines market, which is characterized by the absence of rate and form regulation, allows for more pricing and coverage flexibility to write certain classes of business. In working with agents or program managers on a brokerage basis, National Property and Other underwrites the business internally and sets the premium level. In working with agents or program managers with delegated underwriting authority, the agents produce and underwrite business subject to pricing and underwriting guidelines that have been specifically designed for each facility or program.
International markets and distributes products principally through brokers in each of the countries in which it operates. International also writes business at Lloyd’s, where its products are distributed through Lloyd’s wholesale and retail brokers. By virtue of Lloyd’s worldwide licenses, Business Insurance has access to international markets across the world.

Pricing and Underwriting
Business Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for particular industries, together with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, as well as third-party data, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. Business Insurance utilizes both proprietary forms and standard industry forms for the insurance policies it issues.

A portion of business in this segment, particularly in National Accounts and Construction, is written with large deductible insurance policies. Under workers’ compensation insurance contracts with large deductible features, the Company is obligated to pay the claimant the full amount of the claim. The Company is subsequently reimbursed by the contractholder for the deductible amount and, as a result, is subject to credit risk until such reimbursement is made. At December 31, 2020, contractholder payables on unpaid losses within the deductible layer of large deductible policies was approximately $4.26 billion, and the associated receivables (net of allowance for expected credit losses) were approximately $4.24 billion.  Business Insurance also utilizes retrospectively rated policies for a portion of its business, primarily for workers’ compensation coverage.  Although the retrospectively rated feature of the policy substantially reduces insurance risk for the Company, it introduces additional credit risk to the Company. Premiums receivable from holders of retrospectively rated policies totaled approximately $75 million at December 31, 2020.  Significant collateral, primarily letters of credit and, to a lesser extent, cash collateral, trusts or surety bonds, is generally obtained for large deductible plans and/or retrospectively rated policies that provide for deferred collection of deductible recoveries and/or ultimate premiums. The amount of collateral requested is based upon the creditworthiness of the customer and the nature of the insured risks.  Business Insurance continually monitors the credit exposure on individual accounts and the adequacy of collateral.   For additional information concerning credit risk in certain of the Company’s businesses, see “Item 1A—Risk Factors—We are exposed to credit risk in certain of our insurance operations and with respect to certain guarantee or indemnification arrangements that we have with third parties.”
Product Lines
Business Insurance provides the following types of products and services:

Domestic
•Workers’ Compensation. Provides coverage for employers for specified benefits payable under state or federal law for workplace injuries to employees. There are typically four types of benefits payable under workers’ compensation policies: medical benefits, disability benefits, death benefits and vocational rehabilitation benefits. The Company emphasizes managed care cost containment strategies, which involve employers, employees and care providers in a collaborative effort that focuses on the injured employee’s early return to work and cost-effective quality care. The Company offers the following types of workers’ compensation products:
7

•guaranteed-cost insurance products, where the premiums charged are not adjusted for actual loss experience during the covered period;
•loss-sensitive insurance products, including large deductible and retrospectively rated policies, where fees or premiums are adjusted based on actual loss experience of the insured during the policy period; and
•service programs, which are generally sold to the Company’s National Accounts customers, where the Company receives fees rather than premiums for providing insurance-related services, such as risk management, claims administration, loss control and risk management information services.
The Company also participates in state assigned risk pools as a servicing carrier and pool participant.
•Commercial Automobile. Provides coverage for businesses against losses incurred from personal bodily injury, bodily injury to third parties, property damage to an insured’s vehicle and property damage to other vehicles and other property resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of automobiles and trucks in a business.
•Commercial Property. Provides coverage for loss of or damage to buildings, inventory and equipment resulting from a variety of events, including, among others, hurricanes and other windstorms, tornadoes, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, volcanic eruptions, tsunamis, theft, vandalism, fires, explosions, terrorism and financial loss due to business interruption resulting from covered property damage. Commercial property also includes specialized equipment insurance, which provides coverage for loss or damage resulting from the mechanical breakdown of boilers and machinery, and ocean and inland marine insurance, which provides coverage for goods in transit and unique, one-of-a-kind exposures.
•General Liability. Provides coverages for businesses against third-party claims arising from accidents occurring on their premises or arising out of their operations, including as a result of injuries sustained from products sold. Coverages may also include directors’ and officers’ liability arising in their official capacities, employment practices liability insurance, fiduciary liability for trustees and sponsors of pension, health and welfare, and other employee benefit plans, errors and omissions insurance for employees, agents, professionals and others arising from acts or failures to act under specified circumstances, cyber liability, as well as umbrella and excess insurance.
•Commercial Multi-Peril.  Provides a combination of the property and liability coverages described in the foregoing product line descriptions.
International
•Provides coverage for employers’ liability (similar to workers’ compensation coverage in the United States), public and product liability (the equivalent of general liability), professional indemnity (similar to professional liability coverage), commercial property, commercial automobile, marine, aviation, onshore and offshore energy, construction, terrorism, personal accident and kidnap & ransom. Marine provides coverage for ship hulls, cargoes carried, private yachts, marine-related liability, ports and terminals, and fine art. Aviation provides coverage for worldwide aviation risks including physical damage and liabilities for airline, aerospace, general aviation, aviation war and space risks. Personal accident provides financial protection in the event of death or disablement due to accidental bodily injury, while kidnap & ransom provides financial protection against kidnap, hijack, illegal detention and extortion. While the covered hazards may be similar to those in the U.S. market, the different legal environments can make the product risks and coverage terms very different from those the Company faces in the United States.
Net Retention Policy Per Risk
The following discussion reflects the Company’s retention policy with respect to Business Insurance as of January 1, 2021. For third-party liability, Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum of $14.0 million per insured, per occurrence, subject further to a significant aggregate annual deductible. For property exposures, Business Insurance generally limits its net retention, through the use of reinsurance, to a maximum amount per risk of $20.0 million per occurrence. Business Insurance generally retains its workers' compensation exposures. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per-risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Business Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Business Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.
8

Geographic Distribution

The following table shows the geographic distribution of Business Insurance’s direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2020: 
Location		% of Total	Domestic:		 	California		12.5 	%	New York		9.1 		Texas		6.8 		Illinois		4.6 		Florida		4.1 		New Jersey		3.9 		Pennsylvania		3.8 		Massachusetts		3.0 		
All other domestic (1)
46.7 		Total Domestic		94.5 					International:			Canada		2.7 		All other international		2.8 		Total International		5.5 		Total Business Insurance		100.0 	% 
___________________________________________
(1)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of Business Insurance’s direct written premiums in 2020.
Competition
The insurance industry is represented in the commercial marketplace by many insurance companies of varying size as well as other entities offering risk alternatives, such as self-insured retentions or captive programs. Market competition operates within the insurance regulatory framework to set the price charged for insurance products and the levels of coverage and service provided. A company’s success in the competitive commercial insurance landscape is largely measured by its ability to profitably provide insurance and services, including claims handling and risk management, at prices and terms that retain existing customers and attract new customers. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability.”
Domestic
Competitors typically write Select Accounts business through independent agents and brokers and, to a lesser extent, as direct writers. Both national (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) and regional property and casualty insurance companies compete in the Select Accounts market which generally comprises lower-hazard, “Main Street” business customers. Risks are underwritten and priced using standard industry practices and a combination of proprietary and standard industry product offerings. Competition in this market is focused on ease and speed of doing business and price.

Competitors typically write Middle Market business through independent agents and brokers. Several of Middle Market’s operations require unique combinations of industry knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk control and loss handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) that write most classes of business using traditional products and pricing, and regional insurance companies. Companies compete based on product offerings, service levels, price, claim and loss prevention services and ease and speed of doing business. Efficiency through automation and response time to agent, broker and customer needs is one key to success in this market.

In the National Accounts market, competition is based on price, product offerings, claim and loss prevention services, managed care cost containment, risk management information systems and collateral requirements. National Accounts primarily
9

competes with national property and casualty insurance companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.), as well as with other underwriters of property and casualty insurance in the alternative risk transfer market, such as self-insurance plans, captives managed by others, third-party administrators and a variety of other risk-financing vehicles and mechanisms. The residual market division competes for state contracts to provide claims and policy management services.

National Property and Other competes in focused target markets. Each of these markets is different and requires unique combinations of industry knowledge, customized coverage, specialized risk management and claims handling services, along with partnerships with agents and brokers that also focus on these markets. Some of these businesses compete with national carriers (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) with similarly dedicated underwriting and marketing groups, whereas others compete with smaller regional companies. Specialized agents and brokers, including wholesale agents and program managers, supplement this focused target market approach. National Property and Other’s competitive strategy typically is based on the application of focused industry knowledge to insurance and risk needs.

International
International competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland. Companies compete on the basis of price, product offerings, distribution partnerships, the level of claim and risk management services provided and the ease and speed of doing business. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and provides both property and casualty coverage for these markets.

At Lloyd’s, International competes with other syndicates operating in the Lloyd’s market as well as international and domestic insurers in the various markets where the Lloyd’s operation writes business worldwide, with an emphasis on short-tail insurance lines. Competition is based on price, product and service.

BOND & SPECIALTY INSURANCE
Bond & Specialty Insurance provides surety, fidelity, management liability, professional liability, and other property and casualty coverages and related risk management services to its customers in the United States and certain surety and specialty insurance products in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland and Brazil (through a joint venture as described below), utilizing various degrees of financially-based underwriting approaches.  The range of coverages includes performance, payment and commercial surety bonds for construction and general commercial enterprises; fidelity insurance for private companies, not-for-profit organizations and financial institutions; management liability coverages including directors’ and officers’ liability, employment practices liability, fiduciary liability and cyber risk for public corporations, private companies, not-for-profit organizations and financial institutions; professional liability coverage for a variety of professionals including, among others, lawyers and design professionals; and in the United States only, property, workers’ compensation, auto and general liability for financial institutions.

Bond & Specialty Insurance's surety business in Brazil and Colombia is conducted through Junto Holding Brasil S.A. (Junto) and Junto Holding Latam S.A. in Brazil. The Company owns 49.5% of both Junto, a market leader in surety coverages in Brazil, and Junto Holding Latam S.A., which owns a majority interest in JMalucelli Travelers Seguros S.A., a Colombian surety provider. These joint venture investments are accounted for using the equity method and are included in “other investments” on the consolidated balance sheet.

Selected Product Information
The following table sets forth Bond & Specialty Insurance’s net written premiums by product line for the periods indicated. For a description of the product lines referred to in the table, see “—Product Lines.” In addition, see “—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution” for a discussion of distribution channels for Bond & Specialty Insurance’s product lines.
10

(for the year ended December 31, in millions)		2020		2019		2018		% of Total 2020	Domestic:		 		 		 		 	Fidelity and surety		$	1,072 			$	1,089 			$	1,049 			36.3 	%	General liability		1,311 			1,148 			1,037 			44.5 		Other		231 			234 			204 			7.8 		Total Domestic		2,614 			2,471 			2,290 			88.6 		International		337 			268 			238 			11.4 		Total Bond & Specialty Insurance		$	2,951 			$	2,739 			$	2,528 			100.0 	% 

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution

Bond & Specialty Insurance markets and distributes the vast majority of its products in the United States through many of the same independent agencies and brokers that distribute Business Insurance’s products in the United States. Bond & Specialty Insurance builds relationships with well-established, independent insurance agencies and brokers. In selecting new independent agencies and brokers to distribute its products, Bond & Specialty Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency’s or broker’s profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency or broker is appointed, its ongoing performance is closely monitored. Bond & Specialty Insurance continues to make investments to enable real-time interface capabilities with its independent agencies and brokers.

Pricing and Underwriting
Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes underwriting, claims, engineering, actuarial and product development disciplines for specific accounts and industries, together with extensive amounts of proprietary data gathered and analyzed over many years, as well as third-party data, to facilitate its risk selection process and develop pricing parameters. Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes both proprietary forms and standard industry forms for the insurance policies and bonds it issues.

Product Lines
Bond & Specialty Insurance writes the following types of coverages:
Domestic
•Fidelity and Surety. Provides fidelity insurance coverage, which protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee, and surety, which is a three-party agreement whereby the surety company agrees to pay a third party or complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of a bonded party. Surety bonds are generally provided for construction performance, legal matters such as appeals, trustees in bankruptcy and probate and other performance obligations.

•General Liability. Provides coverage for specialized liability exposures as described above in more detail in the “Business Insurance” section of this report.

•Other. Coverages include Commercial Property, Workers’ Compensation, Commercial Automobile and Commercial Multi-Peril, which are described above in more detail in the “Business Insurance” section of this report.

International
•Fidelity and Surety and certain General Liability products, as well as cyber risk coverages, are provided internationally to various customer groups.

Net Retention Policy Per Risk
The following discussion reflects the Company’s retention policy with respect to Bond & Specialty Insurance as of January 1, 2021. For third party liability, including but not limited to directors’ and officers’ liability, professional liability, employment practices liability, fidelity liability, fiduciary liability and cyber risk liability, Bond & Specialty Insurance generally limits net retentions to $25.0 million per policy. For surety, where limits are often significant, Bond & Specialty Insurance generally retains up to $122.5 million probable maximum loss (PML) per principal, after reinsurance, but may retain higher amounts
11

based on the type of obligation, credit quality and other credit risk factors. Reinsurance treaties often have aggregate limits or caps which may result in larger net per risk retentions if the aggregate limits or caps are reached. Bond & Specialty Insurance utilizes facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Bond & Specialty Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution
The following table shows the geographic distribution of Bond & Specialty Insurance’s direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Location		% of
Total	Domestic:		 	California		10.8 	%	Texas		6.8 		New York		6.4 		Florida		4.8 		Illinois		4.0 		Pennsylvania		3.4 		
All other domestic (1)
52.5 		Total Domestic		88.7 		 		 	International:		 	United Kingdom		6.4 		Canada		3.8 		All other international		1.1 		Total International		11.3 		Total Bond & Specialty Insurance		100.0 	% 
___________________________________________
(1)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of Bond & Specialty Insurance’s direct written premiums in 2020.
Competition
The competitive landscape in which Bond & Specialty Insurance operates is affected by many of the same factors described previously for Business Insurance. Competitors in this market are primarily national property and casualty insurance companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) that write most classes of business and, to a lesser extent, regional insurance companies and companies that have developed niche programs for specific industry segments.

Domestic
Bond & Specialty Insurance underwrites and markets its products to all sizes of businesses and other organizations, as well as individuals. The Company believes that its reputation for timely and consistent decision making, a nationwide network of local underwriting, claims and industry experts and strong producer and customer relationships, as well as its ability to offer its customers a full range of products and services, provides Bond & Specialty Insurance an advantage over many of its competitors and enables it to compete effectively in a complex, dynamic marketplace. The Company believes that the ability of Bond & Specialty Insurance to cross-sell its products to customers of Business Insurance and Personal Insurance provides additional competitive advantages for the Company. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability.”

International
International competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Republic of Ireland, and in Brazil and Colombia through joint ventures. Companies compete on the basis of price, product offerings, the
12

level of claim and risk management services provided and the ease and speed of doing business. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in these countries similar to those served in the United States and provides certain specialty coverages for these markets.

PERSONAL INSURANCE
Personal Insurance writes a broad range of property and casualty insurance covering individuals’ personal risks, primarily in the United States, as well as in Canada. The primary products of automobile and homeowners insurance are complemented by a broad suite of related coverages.
Selected Product and Distribution Channel Information
The following table sets forth net written premiums for Personal Insurance’s business by product line for the periods indicated.  For a description of the product lines referred to in the following table, see “—Product Lines.” In addition, see “—Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution” for a discussion of distribution channels for Personal Insurance’s product lines.
(for the year ended December 31, in millions)		2020		2019		2018		% of Total 2020	
Domestic:
 		 		 		 	
Agency:
 		 		 		 	
Automobile
$	5,080 			$	5,124 			$	4,972 			44.8 	%	
Homeowners and Other
5,185 			4,540 			4,148 			45.7 		Total Agency		10,265 			9,664 			9,120 			90.5 		
Direct-to-Consumer
433 			412 			396 			3.8 		Total Domestic		10,698 			10,076 			9,516 			94.3 		
International
652 			707 			708 			5.7 		Total Personal Insurance		$	11,350 			$	10,783 			$	10,224 			100.0 	% 

Principal Markets and Methods of Distribution
Domestic 
Personal Insurance products are marketed and distributed primarily through thousands of active independent agencies located throughout the United States, supported by personnel in eight sales regions. In addition, sales and service are provided to customers through five contact centers. Principal markets for Personal Insurance products are spread throughout the contiguous United States.

In selecting new independent agencies to distribute its products, Personal Insurance considers, among other attributes, each agency’s profitability, financial stability, staff experience and strategic fit with its operating and marketing plans. Once an agency is appointed, Personal Insurance carefully monitors its performance.

Agents can access the Company’s agency service portal for a number of resources including customer service, marketing and claims management. In addition, agencies can choose to shift the ongoing service responsibility for Personal Insurance’s customers to one of the Company’s Customer Care Centers, where the Company provides, on behalf of an agency, a comprehensive array of customer service needs, including response to billing and coverage inquiries, and policy changes. Approximately two thousand agents take advantage of this service alternative, for which they generally pay a fee.

Personal Insurance also markets and distributes its products through additional channels, including corporations that make the Company’s product offerings available to their employees primarily through payroll deductions, consumer associations and affinity groups. Personal Insurance handles the sales and service for these programs either through a sponsoring independent agent or through the Company’s contact center locations. In addition, since 1995, the Company has had a distribution agreement with GEICO to underwrite homeowners business for certain of their auto customers.

The Company also markets its insurance products directly to consumers, largely through online channels. The Company’s direct-to-consumer business continues to grow but still represents modest premium volume for Personal Insurance.

13

International
International markets and distributes its products principally through hundreds of brokers located throughout Canada.
Pricing and Underwriting
Personal Insurance has developed a product management methodology that integrates the disciplines of underwriting, claims, actuarial and product development. This approach is designed to maintain high-quality underwriting discipline and pricing segmentation. Proprietary and third-party data accumulated over many years is analyzed, and Personal Insurance uses a variety of risk differentiation models to facilitate its pricing segmentation and underwriting. The Company’s product management area establishes underwriting guidelines integrated with its filed pricing and rating plans, which enable Personal Insurance to effectively execute its risk selection and pricing processes.

Domestic
Pricing for personal automobile insurance is driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and changes in severity, including inflation in the cost of automobile repairs, medical care and resolution of liability claims. Pricing in the homeowners business is driven in large part by changes in the frequency of claims and changes in severity, including inflation in the cost of building supplies, labor and household possessions. In addition to the normal risks associated with any multiple peril coverage, the profitability and pricing of both homeowners and automobile insurance are affected by the incidence of catastrophes and other weather-related events, as well as other unusual circumstances such as the impact of COVID-19 and related economic conditions. Insurers writing personal lines property and casualty policies may be unable to change prices until some time after the costs associated with coverage have changed, primarily because of state insurance rate regulation. The pace at which an insurer can change rates in response to changing costs depends, in part, on whether the applicable state law requires prior approval of rate changes or notification to the regulator either before or after a rate change is imposed. In states with prior approval laws, rates must be approved by the regulator before being used by the insurer. In states having “file-and-use” laws, the insurer must file rate changes with the regulator, but does not need to wait for approval before using the new rates. A “use-and-file” law requires an insurer to file rates within a period of time after the insurer begins using the new rate. Approximately one-half of the states require prior approval of most rate changes. In addition, changes to methods of marketing and underwriting in some jurisdictions are subject to state-imposed restrictions, which can make it more difficult for an insurer to significantly manage catastrophe exposures.

The Company’s ability or willingness to change prices, modify underwriting terms or reduce exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, the competitive environment, the evolving political and legislative environment and/or changes in the general economic climate. The Company also may choose to write business it might not otherwise write in some states for strategic purposes, such as improving access to other commercial or personal underwriting opportunities. In choosing to write business in some states, the Company also considers the costs and benefits of those states’ residual markets and guaranty funds, as well as other property and casualty business the Company writes in those states.

International
Pricing and underwriting for personal automobile and homeowners insurance in Canada is driven in large part by the same factors as in the United States. For personal automobile insurance, all provinces in Canada require prior approval before rates are implemented.

Product Lines
Domestic
The primary coverages in Personal Insurance are personal automobile and homeowners and other insurance sold to individuals.  Personal Insurance had approximately 8.4 million active policies (i.e., policies-in-force) in the United States at December 31, 2020.
14

Personal Insurance writes the following types of coverages:
•Personal Automobile provides coverage for liability to others for both bodily injury and property damage, uninsured motorist protection, and for physical damage to an insured’s own vehicle from collision, fire, flood, hail and theft. In addition, many states require policies to provide first-party personal injury protection, frequently referred to as no-fault coverage.

•Homeowners and Other provides protection against losses to dwellings and contents from a variety of perils (excluding flooding) as well as coverage for personal liability. The Company writes homeowners insurance for dwellings, condominiums and tenants, and rental properties. The Company also writes coverage for boats and yachts and valuable personal items such as jewelry, and also writes coverages for umbrella liability, identity fraud, and weddings and special events.
International
•International provides automobile and homeowners and other coverages in Canada (similar to coverages in the United States).  Personal Insurance had approximately 491,000 active policies in Canada at December 31, 2020.
Net Retention Policy Per Risk
The following discussion reflects the Company’s retention policy with respect to Personal Insurance as of January 1, 2021. Personal Insurance generally retains its primary personal auto exposures in their entirety. For personal property insurance, there is an $8.0 million maximum retention per risk, net of reinsurance. Personal Insurance uses facultative reinsurance to provide additional limits capacity or to reduce retentions on an individual risk basis. Personal Insurance issues umbrella policies up to a maximum limit of $10.0 million per risk. Personal Insurance may also retain amounts greater than those described herein based upon the individual characteristics of the risk.

Geographic Distribution
The following table shows the geographic distribution of Personal Insurance’s direct written premiums for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Location		% of Total	Domestic:		 	New York		9.7 	%	
Texas (1)
9.6 		California		7.0 		Georgia		5.3 		Pennsylvania		5.1 		New Jersey		4.3 		Florida		3.9 		Virginia		3.6 		Colorado		3.4 		Maryland		3.2 		South Carolina		3.1 		Massachusetts		3.0 		
All other domestic (2)
33.2 		Total Domestic		94.4 				 	International:		 	Canada		5.6 		Total International		5.6 		     Total Personal Insurance		100.0 	% 
___________________________________________
(1)The percentage for Texas includes business written by the Company through a fronting agreement with another insurer.
(2)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of Personal Insurance’s direct written premiums in 2020.
15

Competition
Domestic
Although national companies (including international companies doing business in the U.S.) write the majority of this business, Personal Insurance also faces competition from many regional and hundreds of local companies. Competitors write business in both traditional and alternative distribution platforms through independent agents and as direct writers, either through the use of exclusive agents, salaried employees or direct marketing strategies. Personal Insurance primarily competes based on breadth of product offerings, price, service (including claims handling), ease and speed of doing business, stability of the insurer and name recognition. Personal Insurance competes for business within each independent agency since these agencies also offer policies of competing companies. Most independent personal insurance agents utilize price comparison rating technology, sometimes referred to as “comparative raters,” as a cost-efficient means of obtaining quotes from multiple companies. Because the use of this technology facilitates the process of generating multiple quotes, the technology has increased price comparison on new business and, increasingly, on renewal business.

International
Personal Insurance competes with numerous international and domestic insurers in Canada. Companies compete based on similar factors to those described above for domestic operations. The Company has developed expertise in various markets in Canada similar to those served in the United States and provides both automobile and homeowners and other coverages for this market.

See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—The intense competition that we face, and the impact of innovation, technological change and changing customer preferences on the insurance industry and the markets in which we operate, could harm our ability to maintain or increase our business volumes and our profitability.”

CLAIMS MANAGEMENT
The Company’s claim functions are managed through its Claims Services organization, with locations in the United States and in the other countries where it does business. With more than 12,000 employees, Claims Services employs a group of professionals with diverse skills, including claim adjusters, appraisers, attorneys, investigators, engineers, accountants, nurses, data and analytics professionals, system specialists and training, management and support personnel. Approved external service providers, such as investigators, attorneys and, when necessary, independent adjusters and appraisers, are available for use as appropriate.

United States field claim management teams located in 16 claim centers and 52 satellite and specialty-only offices in 45 states are organized to maintain focus on the specific claim characteristics unique to the businesses within the Company’s business segments. Claim teams with specialized skills, required licenses, resources and workflows are matched to the unique exposures of those businesses, with local claims management dedicated to achieving optimal results within each segment, including acting as a third party administrator for large customers who self-insure and retain the Company to handle their claims process on a fee-for-service basis. The Company’s home office operations provide additional support in the form of workflow design, quality management, information technology, advanced management information and data analysis, training, financial reporting and control, and human resources strategy. This structure permits the Company to maintain the economies of scale of a large, established company while retaining the agility to respond promptly to the needs of customers, brokers, agents and underwriters. Claims management for International, while generally provided locally by staff in the respective international locations due to local knowledge of applicable laws and regulations, is also managed by the Company’s Claims Services organization in the United States to leverage that knowledge base and to share best practices.

An integral part of the Company’s strategy to benefit customers and shareholders is its continuing industry leadership in the fight against insurance fraud through its Investigative Services unit. The Company has a nationwide staff of experts who investigate a wide array of insurance fraud schemes using in-house forensic resources and other technological tools. This staff also has specialized expertise in fire scene examinations, medical provider fraud schemes, law firm fraud schemes and data mining. The Company also dedicates investigative resources to ensure that violations of law are reported to and prosecuted by law enforcement agencies.

Claims Services uses technology, management information and data analysis to assist the Company in reviewing its claim practices and results in order to evaluate and improve its claims management performance. The Company’s claims-management strategy is focused on segmentation of claims and appropriate technical specialization to drive effective claim resolution. The Company continually monitors its investment in claim resources to maintain an effective focus on claim outcomes and a
16

disciplined approach to continual improvement. The Company operates a state-of-the-art claims-training facility which offers hands-on experiential learning to help ensure that its claim professionals are properly trained. In recent years, the Company has invested significant additional resources in many of its claims handling operations, including the utilization of drone technology, and routinely monitors the effect of those investments to ensure a consistent optimization among outcomes, cost and service.

Claims Services’ catastrophe response strategy is to respond to a significant catastrophic event using its own personnel, enabling it to minimize reliance on independent adjusters and appraisers. The Company has developed a large dedicated catastrophe response team and trained a large Enterprise Response Team of existing employees who can be deployed on short notice in the event of a catastrophe that generates claim volume exceeding the capacity of the dedicated catastrophe response team. In recent years, these internal resources were successfully deployed to respond to a significant level of catastrophe claims.

REINSURANCE
The Company reinsures a portion of the risks it underwrites in order to manage its exposure to losses and to protect its capital. The Company cedes to reinsurers a portion of these risks and pays premiums based upon the risk and exposure of the policies subject to such reinsurance. The Company utilizes a variety of reinsurance agreements to manage its exposure to large property and casualty losses, including facultative as well as catastrophe and individual risk treaties. Ceded reinsurance involves credit risk, except with regard to mandatory pools and associations, and is predominantly subject to aggregate loss limits. Although the reinsurer is liable to the Company to the extent of the reinsurance ceded, the Company remains liable as the direct insurer on all risks reinsured. Reinsurance recoverables are reported after reductions for known insolvencies and after allowances for uncollectible amounts. The Company also holds collateral, including trust agreements, escrow funds and letters of credit, under certain reinsurance agreements. The Company monitors the financial condition of reinsurers on a regular basis and reviews its reinsurance arrangements periodically. Reinsurers are selected based on their financial condition, business practices, the price of their product offerings and the value of collateral provided. After reinsurance is purchased, the Company has limited ability to manage the credit risk of a reinsurer. In addition, in a number of jurisdictions, particularly the European Union and the United Kingdom and a small number of U.S. states, a reinsurer is permitted to transfer a reinsurance arrangement to another reinsurer, which may be less creditworthy, without a counterparty’s consent, provided that the transfer has been approved by the applicable regulatory and/or court authority.

For additional information regarding reinsurance, see note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements and “Item 1A—Risk Factors.” For a description of reinsurance-related litigation, see note 17 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Catastrophe Reinsurance
Catastrophes include hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, solar flares and other naturally-occurring events. Catastrophes can also result from terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, civil unrest, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. The incidence and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure affected by the event and the severity of the event. Most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, wildfires, cyber attacks and other events may produce significant damage or loss in larger areas, especially those areas that are heavily populated. The Company generally seeks to manage its exposure to catastrophes through individual risk selection and the purchase of catastrophe reinsurance. In addition to the Company’s catastrophe reinsurance coverages, the Company is also party to other reinsurance treaties that can provide additional coverage for losses arising from catastrophes, as described in the “Net Retention Policy Per Risk” sections of the respective segment discussions above. The Company conducts reviews of its risk and catastrophe coverages on a regular basis and makes changes as it deems appropriate. The following discussion summarizes the Company’s catastrophe reinsurance coverage at January 1, 2021.

Corporate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. This treaty covers the accumulation of certain property losses arising from one or multiple occurrences for the period January 1, 2021 through and including December 31, 2021. The treaty provides for recovery of 75% of the dollar amount of each qualifying loss in excess of a $3.0 billion retention, up to a maximum amount of qualifying losses of $5.0 billion (i.e. for every dollar of loss between $3.0 billion and $5.0 billion this treaty provides for 75 cents of coverage). Therefore, the maximum recovery under the treaty would be $1.5 billion. Qualifying losses for each occurrence are after a $100 million deductible.  The treaty covers all of the Company’s exposures in North America and all waters contiguous thereto. The treaty only provides coverage for terrorism events in limited circumstances and excludes entirely losses arising from nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological attacks. The treaty only provides coverage
17

for cyber events in limited circumstances and excludes losses arising from communicable disease. The Company's underlying insurance coverages generally exclude coverage for communicable disease.

Underlying Property Aggregate Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. This treaty covers the accumulation of certain property losses arising from one or multiple occurrences for the period January 1, 2021 through and including December 31, 2021.  The treaty provides for up to $350 million part of $500 million of coverage, subject to a $1.9 billion retention (i.e., for every dollar of loss between $1.9 billion and $2.4 billion this treaty provides for 70 cents of coverage), of aggregate qualifying losses.  Qualifying losses are subject to a $5 million event deductible per occurrence.  Coverage for, and contributions to the $1.9 billion retention from, hurricanes and/or tropical storms, earthquakes and wildfires are limited to $250 million per event. The treaty covers property perils for PCS events in North America and all waters contiguous thereto.  The treaty excludes losses arising from communicable disease and most losses arising from cyber and terrorism, including nuclear, biological, chemical or radiological.

Catastrophe Bonds. The Company has catastrophe protection through an indemnity reinsurance agreement with Long Point Re III Ltd. (Long Point Re III), an independent Cayman Islands company licensed as a Class C insurer in the Cayman Islands. The reinsurance agreement meets the requirements to be accounted for as reinsurance in accordance with the guidance for reinsurance contracts. In connection with the reinsurance agreement, Long Point Re III issued notes (generally referred to as “catastrophe bonds”) to investors in amounts equal to the full coverage provided under the reinsurance agreement as described below. The proceeds were deposited in a reinsurance trust account. The businesses covered by this reinsurance agreement are subsets of the Company’s overall insurance portfolio, comprising specified property coverages spread across the following geographic locations: Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia and Vermont.

The reinsurance agreement provides coverage of up to $500 million to the Company through May 24, 2022 for certain losses from tropical cyclones, earthquakes, severe thunderstorms or winter storms in the locations listed above. The attachment point and maximum limit under this agreement are reset annually to adjust the expected loss of the layer within a predetermined range. Until and including May 24, 2021, the Company is entitled to begin recovering amounts under this reinsurance agreement if the covered losses in the covered area for a single occurrence reach an initial attachment amount of $1.872 billion. The full $500 million coverage amount is available until such covered losses reach a maximum $2.372 billion. The coverage under the reinsurance agreement is limited to specified property coverage written in Personal Insurance; Select Accounts, Middle Market (excluding Excess Casualty and Boiler & Machinery) and National Property and Other in Business Insurance; and Bond & Specialty Insurance Other in Bond & Specialty Insurance. 

Under the terms of the reinsurance agreement, the Company is obligated to pay annual reinsurance premiums to Long Point Re III for the reinsurance coverage. Amounts payable to the Company under the reinsurance agreement with respect to any covered event cannot exceed the Company's actual losses from such event. The principal amount of the catastrophe bonds will be reduced by any amounts paid to the Company under the reinsurance agreement.

As with any reinsurance agreement, there is credit risk associated with collecting amounts due from reinsurers. With regard to Long Point Re III, the credit risk is mitigated by a reinsurance trust account that has been funded by Long Point Re III with money market funds that invest solely in direct government obligations and obligations backed by the U.S. government with maturities of no more than 13 months. The money market funds must have a principal stability rating of at least AAAm by Standard & Poor’s or AAAmmf by Fitch Ratings on the issuance date of the bonds and thereafter must be rated by Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings, as applicable. Other permissible investments include money market funds which invest in repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements collateralized by direct government obligations and obligations of any agency backed by the U.S. government with terms of no more than 397 calendar days, and cash.

At the time the agreement was entered into with Long Point Re III, the Company evaluated the applicability of the accounting guidance that addresses variable interest entities or VIEs. Under this guidance, an entity that is formed for business purposes is considered a VIE if: (a) the equity investors lack the direct or indirect ability through voting rights or similar rights to make decisions about an entity's activities that have a significant effect on the entity’s operations or (b) the equity investors do not provide sufficient financial resources for the entity to support its activities. Additionally, a company that absorbs a majority of the expected losses from a VIE’s activities or is entitled to receive a majority of the entity’s expected residual returns, or both, is considered to be the primary beneficiary of the VIE and is required to consolidate the VIE in the company’s financial statements.

As a result of the evaluation of the reinsurance agreement with Long Point Re III, the Company concluded that it was a VIE because the conditions described in items (a) and (b) above were present. However, while Long Point Re III was determined to be a VIE, the Company concluded that it did not have a variable interest in the entity, as the variability in its results, caused by
18

the reinsurance agreement, is expected to be absorbed entirely by the investors in the catastrophe bonds issued by Long Point Re III and residual amounts earned by it, if any, are expected to be absorbed by the equity investors (the Company has neither an equity nor a residual interest in Long Point Re III).

Accordingly, the Company is not the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III and does not consolidate that entity in the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Additionally, because the Company has no intention to pursue any transaction that would result in it acquiring interest in and becoming the primary beneficiary of Long Point Re III, the consolidation of that entity in the Company’s consolidated financial statements in future periods is unlikely.

The Company has not incurred any losses that have resulted or are expected to result in a recovery under the Long Point Re III agreement since its inception. 

Northeast Property Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. This treaty provides up to $600 million part of $850 million of coverage, subject to a $2.25 billion retention (i.e., for every dollar of loss between $2.25 billion and $3.10 billion, this treaty provides 71 cents of coverage), for losses arising from a single occurrence, subject to one reinstatement. Coverage is provided on an all perils basis, including but not limited to hurricanes, tornadoes, hail storms, earthquakes, winter storms and/or freeze losses (coverage is included for terrorism events in limited circumstances). Coverage for communicable disease and nuclear, biological and radiological terrorism attacks is excluded for this treaty. The treaty covers territory from Virginia to Maine for the period July 1, 2020 through and including June 30, 2021. Losses from a covered event anywhere in North America and waters contiguous thereto may be used to satisfy the retention. Recoveries under the catastrophe bonds (if any) would be first applied to reduce losses subject to this treaty.

Middle Market Earthquake Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. This treaty provides for up to $225 million part of $250 million of coverage, subject to a $110 million retention (i.e., for every dollar of loss between $110 million and $360 million this treaty provides 90 cents of coverage), for losses occurring from an earthquake and other ensuing losses such as fire following and sprinkler leakage, incurred by Technology, Public Sector Services and Commercial Accounts in Business Insurance from July 1, 2020 through and including June 30, 2021. The treaty covers the United States and Canada, their territories, possessions and waters contiguous thereto.

Personal Insurance Earthquake Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty. This treaty provides for up to $180 million part of $200 million of coverage, subject to a $150 million retention, for losses occurring from an earthquake, including fire following and sprinkler leakage, incurred by Personal Insurance from January 1, 2021 through and including December 31, 2021. The treaty covers the United States, its territories, possessions and waters contiguous thereto.

Canadian Property Catastrophe Excess-of-Loss Reinsurance Treaty.  This treaty provides coverage for 50% of losses in excess of C$100 million (US$78 million at December 31, 2020) up to C$200 million (US$157 million at December 31, 2020) and for 100% of losses in excess of C$200 million (US$157 million at December 31, 2020) up to C$600 million (US$470 million at December 31, 2020), in each case with respect to the accumulation of net property losses arising out of one occurrence incurred by the Company’s Canadian businesses from July 1, 2020 through and including June 30, 2021.  The treaty covers all property written by the Company’s Canadian businesses, including, but not limited to, habitational property, commercial property, inland marine, ocean marine and auto physical damages exposures. Coverage for communicable disease and nuclear, biological and radiological terrorism attacks is excluded for this treaty.

Other International Reinsurance Treaties. For other business underwritten in Canada, as well as for business written in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland and in the Company’s operations at Lloyd’s, separate reinsurance protections are purchased locally that have lower net retentions more commensurate with the size of the respective local balance sheet.

Terrorism Risk Insurance Program. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program is a Federal program administered by the Department of the Treasury authorized through December 31, 2027 that provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for certain insured losses resulting from certified acts of terrorism. For a further description of the program, including the Company’s estimated deductible under the program in 2021, see note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements and “Item 1A—Risk Factors—High levels of catastrophe losses, including as a result of factors such as increased concentrations of insured exposures in catastrophe-prone areas, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial position and/or liquidity, and could adversely impact our ratings, our ability to raise capital and the availability and cost of reinsurance.”

19

CLAIMS AND CLAIM ADJUSTMENT EXPENSE RESERVES
Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves represent management’s estimate of the ultimate liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses for claims that have been reported and claims that have been incurred but not yet reported as of the balance sheet date.
 
The Company continually refines its reserve estimates as part of a regular ongoing process that includes reviews of key assumptions, underlying variables and historical loss experience. The Company reflects adjustments to reserves in the results of operations in the periods in which the estimates are changed. In establishing reserves, the Company takes into account estimated recoveries for reinsurance, salvage and subrogation. The reserves are reviewed regularly by qualified actuaries employed by the Company. For additional information on the process of estimating reserves and a discussion of underlying variables and risk factors, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Estimates.”

The process of estimating loss reserves involves a high degree of judgment and is subject to a number of variables. These variables (discussed by product line in the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”) are affected by both internal and external events, such as changes in claims handling procedures, inflation, judicial trends, the tort environment and the legislative landscape, among others. The impact of many of these items on ultimate costs for claims and claim adjustment expenses is difficult to estimate. Reserve estimation difficulties also differ significantly by product line due to differences in the underlying insurance contract (e.g., claims-made versus occurrence), claim complexity, the volume of claims, the potential severity of individual claims, the determination of the occurrence date for a claim, and reporting lags (the time between the occurrence of the insured event and when it is actually reported to the insurer). Informed judgment is applied throughout the process.

The Company derives estimates for unreported claims and development with respect to reported claims principally from actuarial analyses of historical patterns of loss development by accident year for each business unit, product line and type of exposure. Similarly, the Company derives estimates of unpaid loss adjustment expenses principally from actuarial analyses of historical development patterns and the relationship of loss adjustment expenses to losses for each product line and type of exposure. For a description of the Company’s reserving methods for asbestos and environmental claims, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation,” and “—Environmental Claims and Litigation.”

Certain of the Company’s claims and claim adjustment expense reserves are discounted to present value.  See note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion.
Reserves on Statutory Accounting Basis
At December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, claims and claim adjustment expense reserves (net of reinsurance) prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP reserves) were $110 million higher, $58 million higher and $62 million higher, respectively, than those reported in the Company’s respective annual financial reports filed with insurance regulators, which are prepared in accordance with statutory accounting practices (statutory reserves).
The differences between the amount of reserves reported for GAAP and statutory reporting are primarily due to the differences in accounting for: (i) fee reimbursements associated with large deductible business, (ii) the impact of updated accounting guidance for credit losses adopted January 1, 2020 applicable to structured settlements and (iii) the accounting for reinsurance.

For large deductible business, the Company pays the deductible portion of a casualty insurance claim and then seeks reimbursement from the insured, plus a fee. The associated reserves for claim adjustment expenses are reported gross of the expected fee income (i.e., the reserves are not net of the expected fees) for GAAP reporting. For statutory reporting, the associated reserves are reported net of the expected fee income.

For GAAP reporting, amounts payable under structured settlements for which the Company did not receive a release of its obligation from the claimant are reported in loss reserves and reinsurance recoverables, net of an allowance for estimated uncollectible amounts. The allowance was impacted by the updated accounting guidance for credit losses adopted January 1, 2020 that requires the allowance to be based on expected credit losses. For statutory reporting, structured settlements for which the Company has not obtained a release are disclosed as a contingent liability and not recorded as part of loss reserves.

Reserves for claims and claim adjustment expenses are reported gross of reinsurance recoverables (i.e., without reduction for amounts recoverable for reinsurance) for GAAP reporting. For statutory reporting, the reserves are reported net of reinsurance
20

recoverables. Additionally, reinsurance balances resulting from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract (retroactive reinsurance) are included in reinsurance recoverables for GAAP reporting. Statutory accounting practices require retroactive reinsurance balances to be recorded in other liabilities as contra-liabilities rather than in loss reserves.

Asbestos and Environmental Claims
Asbestos and environmental claims are segregated from other claims and are handled separately within the Company’s Strategic Resolution Group, a separate unit staffed by dedicated legal, claim, finance and engineering professionals which also has responsibility for enterprise-wide major case activity. For additional information on asbestos and environmental claims, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asbestos Claims and Litigation” and “—Environmental Claims and Litigation.”

INTERCOMPANY REINSURANCE POOLING ARRANGEMENTS
Most of the Company’s domestic insurance subsidiaries are members of an intercompany property and casualty reinsurance pooling arrangement. Pooling arrangements permit the participating companies to rely on the capacity of the entire pool’s statutory capital and surplus rather than just on its own statutory capital and surplus. Under such arrangements, the members share substantially all insurance business that is written and allocate the combined premiums, losses and expenses.

RATINGS
Ratings are an important factor in assessing the Company’s competitive position in the insurance industry. The Company receives ratings from the following major rating agencies: A.M. Best Company (A.M. Best), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and Standard & Poor’s Corp. (S&P). Rating agencies typically issue two types of ratings for insurance companies: claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings, which reflect the rating agency’s assessment of an insurer’s ability to meet its financial obligations to policyholders, and debt ratings, which reflect the rating agency’s assessment of a company’s prospects for repaying its debts and are considered by lenders in connection with the setting of interest rates and terms for a company’s short- and long-term borrowings. Agency ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold any security, and they may be revised or withdrawn at any time by the rating agency. Each agency’s rating should be evaluated independently of any other agency’s rating. The system and the number of rating categories can vary widely from rating agency to rating agency. Customers usually focus on claims-paying ratings, while creditors focus on debt ratings. Investors use both to evaluate a company’s overall financial strength. The ratings issued on the Company or its subsidiaries by any of these agencies are announced publicly and are available on the Company’s website and from the agencies.

A downgrade in one or more of the Company’s claims-paying ratings could negatively impact the Company’s business volumes and competitive position because demand for certain of its products may be reduced, particularly because some customers require that the Company maintain minimum ratings to enter into, maintain or renew business with it. 

Additionally, a downgrade in one or more of the Company’s debt ratings could adversely impact the Company’s ability to access the capital markets and other sources of funds, including in the syndicated bank loan market, and/or result in higher financing costs.  For example, downgrades in the Company’s debt ratings could result in higher interest expense under the Company’s revolving credit agreement (under which the cost of borrowing could range from LIBOR plus 75 basis points to LIBOR plus 137.5 basis points, depending on the Company’s debt ratings), the Company’s commercial paper program, or in the event that the Company were to access the capital markets by issuing debt or similar types of securities.  See note 9 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the Company’s revolving credit agreement and commercial paper program. The Company considers the level of increased cash funding requirements in the event of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of the Company’s liquidity requirements.  The Company currently believes that a one- to two-notch downgrade in its debt ratings would not result in a material increase in interest expense under its existing credit agreement and commercial paper programs. In addition, the Company considers the impact of a ratings downgrade as part of the evaluation of its common share repurchases.

Claims — Paying Ratings
The following table summarizes the current claims-paying (or financial strength) ratings for each of the Company’s rated entities as of February 11, 2021, including the position of each rating in the applicable agency’s rating scale.
21

 	 	A.M. Best	 	Moody’s	 	S&P	 	Fitch	Travelers Reinsurance Pool (a)(b)	 	A++	
(1st of 16)
 	Aa2	
(3rd of 21)
 	AA	
(3rd of 21)
 	
AA (3rd of 21)
Travelers C&S Co. of America	 	A++	
(1st of 16)
 	Aa2	
(3rd of 21)
 	AA	
(3rd of 21)
 	
AA (3rd of 21)
First Floridian Auto and Home Ins. Co.
 	A-	
(4th of 16)
 	—	 	—	 	
AA (3rd of 21)
Travelers Insurance Company of Canada
 	A++	
(1st of 16)
 	—	 	AA-	
(4th of 21)
 	—	
The Dominion of Canada General Insurance Company
 	A	
(3rd of 16)
 	—	 	—	 	—	
Travelers Insurance Company Limited
 	A++	
(1st of 16)
 	—	 	AA	
(3rd of 21)
 	—	
Travelers Insurance Designated Activity Company
A++	
(1st of 16)
—		AA-	
(4th of 21)
— 
___________________________________________
(a)The Travelers Reinsurance Pool consists of:  The Travelers Indemnity Company, The Charter Oak Fire Insurance Company, The Phoenix Insurance Company, The Travelers Indemnity Company of Connecticut, The Travelers Indemnity Company of America, Travelers Property Casualty Company of America, Travelers Commercial Casualty Company, TravCo Insurance Company, The Travelers Home and Marine Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty and Surety Company, Northland Insurance Company, Northland Casualty Company, The Standard Fire Insurance Company, The Automobile Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, Travelers Casualty Insurance Company of America, Farmington Casualty Company, Travelers Commercial Insurance Company, Travelers Casualty Company of Connecticut, Travelers Property Casualty Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Security Insurance Company, Travelers Personal Insurance Company, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company, The Travelers Casualty Company, St. Paul Protective Insurance Company, Travelers Constitution State Insurance Company, St. Paul Guardian Insurance Company, St. Paul Mercury Insurance Company, Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Underwriters, Inc., Discover Property & Casualty Insurance Company and United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company. In addition, the following entities are also members of the Travelers Reinsurance Pool but have a 0% share of the pool: Northfield Insurance Company, American Equity Specialty Insurance Company, Travelers Excess and Surplus Lines Company, St. Paul Surplus Lines Insurance Company and Discover Specialty Insurance Company. 
(b)The following affiliated companies are 100% reinsured by one of the pool participants noted in (a) above: Fidelity and Guaranty Insurance Company, Gulf Underwriters Insurance Company, American Equity Insurance Company, Select Insurance Company, The Travelers Lloyds Insurance Company and Travelers Lloyds of Texas Insurance Company.
Debt Ratings
The following table summarizes the current debt, trust preferred securities and commercial paper ratings of the Company and its subsidiaries as of February 11, 2021.  The table also presents the position of each rating in the applicable agency’s rating scale.
 		A.M. Best	 	Moody’s	 	S&P	 	Fitch	 		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	Senior debt		
a+ (5th of 22)
 	A2	
(6th of 21)
 	A	
(6th of 22)
 	A	
(6th of 22)
Junior subordinated debentures		
a- (7th of 22)
 	A3	
(7th of 21)
 	BBB+	
(8th of 22)
 	BBB+	
(8th of 22)
Commercial paper		
AMB-1+ (1st of 5)
 	P-1	
(1st of 4)
 	A-1	
(2nd of 10)
 	F1	
(2nd of 8)
 

Rating Agency Actions

The following rating agency actions were taken with respect to the Company from February 13, 2020, the date on which the Company filed its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, through February 11, 2021:
•On May 12, 2020, Fitch affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.
•On November 5, 2020, A.M. Best affirmed all ratings of the Company. The outlook for all ratings is stable.

22

INVESTMENT OPERATIONS
The majority of funds available for investment are deployed in a widely diversified portfolio of high quality, liquid, taxable U.S. government, tax-exempt and taxable U.S. municipal and taxable corporate and U.S. agency mortgage-backed bonds. The Company closely monitors the duration of its fixed maturity investments, and the Company’s investment purchases and sales are executed with the objective of having adequate funds available to satisfy its insurance and debt obligations. Generally, the expected principal and interest payments produced by the Company’s fixed maturity portfolio adequately fund the estimated runoff of the Company’s insurance reserves. The Company’s management of the duration of the fixed maturity investment portfolio, including its use of Treasury futures at times, has produced a duration that is less than the estimated duration of the Company’s net insurance liabilities. The substantial amount by which the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio exceeds the value of the net insurance liabilities, as well as the positive cash flow from newly sold policies and the large amount of high-quality liquid bonds, contributes to the Company’s ability to fund claim payments without having to sell illiquid assets or access credit facilities.

The Company also invests much smaller amounts in equity securities, real estate, private equity limited partnerships, hedge funds, and real estate partnerships and joint ventures. These investment classes have the potential for higher returns but also involve varying degrees of risk, including less stable rates of return and less liquidity.

See note 3 of notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company’s investment portfolio.

REGULATION

U.S. State and Federal Regulation
The Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries are collectively licensed to transact insurance business in all U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands and are subject to regulation in the various states and jurisdictions in which the subsidiaries transact business. The extent of regulation varies, but generally derives from statutes that delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative authority to a department of insurance or finance in each state and jurisdiction. The regulation, supervision and administration relate, among other things, to standards of solvency that must be met and maintained, the nature of and limitations on investments, premium rates, restrictions on the type and size of risks that may be insured under a single policy, reserves and provisions for unearned premiums, losses and other obligations, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, the licensing of insurers and their agents, approval of policy forms and the regulation of market conduct, including the use of credit and other information in underwriting as well as other underwriting and claims practices. State insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the financial condition and market conduct of insurance companies and require the filing of financial and other reports on a quarterly and annual basis.

State insurance regulation continues to evolve in response to the changing economic and business environment as well as efforts by regulators internationally to develop a consistent approach to regulation. While the U.S. federal government has not historically regulated the insurance business, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. While the FIO has limited regulatory authority, it has been active in the efforts to develop international regulatory standards for the insurance industry. In response to these international efforts, the state insurance regulators, through the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC), are working with the Federal Reserve and the FIO to consider and develop changes to the U.S. regulatory framework, including the development of regulatory tools to evaluate risks and the availability of capital on a groupwide basis in addition to the current requirements imposed on a legal-entity basis.

These changes are evidenced by the incorporation of supervisory colleges into the U.S. regulatory framework. A supervisory college is a forum of the regulators having jurisdictional authority over a holding company’s various insurance subsidiaries, including foreign insurance subsidiaries, convened to meet with the insurer’s executive management, to evaluate the insurer from both a groupwide and legal-entity basis. Some of the items evaluated during the colleges include the insurer’s business strategies, approach to enterprise risk management and corporate governance.

While insurance in the United States is regulated on a legal-entity basis, the NAIC has adopted changes to its Model Holding Company Act that some states, including the State of Connecticut, have enacted to allow the insurance commissioner to be designated as the groupwide supervisor (i.e., lead regulator) for the insurance holding company system based upon certain criteria, including the jurisdiction of domicile of the insurance subsidiaries holding the majority of the insurance group’s premiums, assets, or liabilities. Based upon these criteria, the State of Connecticut Insurance Department is designated as the Company's lead regulator and conducts the supervisory colleges for the Company. Additionally, the NAIC has recently
23

adopted changes to its Model Holding Company Act to require certain insurance groups to file a Group Capital Calculation to allow the groupwide supervisor (lead state) to evaluate the risks and available capital on a groupwide basis in addition to the risk-based capital requirements currently imposed on a legal-entity basis. The Company will be required to file a Group Capital Calculation once the State of Connecticut amends its holding company act to incorporate the recent changes to the NAIC Model Holding Company Act. These changes could result in an increase in the amount of capital the Company's insurance subsidiaries are required to have and could subject the Company to increased regulation.

Insurance Regulation Concerning Dividends from Insurance Subsidiaries. The Company's principal domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled in the State of Connecticut. The Connecticut insurance holding company laws require notice to, and approval by, the state insurance commissioner for the declaration or payment of any dividend from an insurance subsidiary that, together with other distributions made within the preceding twelve months, exceeds the greater of 10% of the insurance subsidiary’s statutory capital and surplus as of the preceding December 31, or the insurance subsidiary’s net income for the twelve-month period ending the preceding December 31, in each case determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices and by state regulation. This declaration or payment is further limited by adjusted unassigned surplus, as determined in accordance with statutory accounting practices.

The insurance holding company laws of states in which the Company's other domestic insurance subsidiaries are domiciled generally contain similar, although in some instances somewhat more restrictive, limitations on the payment of dividends. These insurance subsidiaries, as well as the insurance subsidiaries domiciled in Connecticut, may also be subject to similar dividends limitations imposed by states in which those subsidiaries are considered commercially domiciled as a result of the amount of business written in those states.

Rate and Rule Approvals. TRV’s domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to each state’s laws and regulations regarding rate and rule approvals. The applicable laws and regulations generally establish standards to ensure that rates are not excessive, inadequate, unfairly discriminatory or used to engage in unfair price competition. An insurer’s ability to adjust rates and the relative timing of the process are dependent upon each state’s requirements. Many states have enacted variations of competitive ratemaking laws, which allow insurers to set certain premium rates for certain classes of insurance without having to obtain the prior approval of the state insurance department.

Requirements for Exiting Geographic Markets and/or Canceling or Nonrenewing Policies. Many states have laws and regulations which may impact the timing and/or the ability of an insurer to either discontinue or substantially reduce its writings in that state. These laws and regulations typically require prior notice and in some instances insurance department approval prior to discontinuing a line of business or withdrawing from that state. In addition, all states impose limitations on cancellations or non-renewals of certain policies, including in particular, limitations on the reasons for cancellations and on the timing of non-renewals.

Regulatory and Legislative Responses to Catastrophes. States have from time to time passed legislation, and regulators have taken action, that have the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage catastrophe risk, such as legislation restricting insurers from reducing exposures or withdrawing from catastrophe-prone areas or mandating that insurers participate in residual markets involving catastrophe-prone areas. For example, one state passed legislation that restricted a carrier's ability to cancel or non-renew certain policies within or adjacent to declared state of emergency zip codes. Participation in residual market mechanisms has resulted in, and may in the future result in, significant losses or assessments to insurers, including the Company, and, in certain states, those losses or assessments may not be commensurate with the Company's direct catastrophe exposure in those states. If the Company's competitors leave those states having residual market mechanisms, remaining insurers, including the Company, may be subject to significant increases in losses or assessments following a catastrophe. In addition, following catastrophes, there are sometimes legislative and administrative initiatives and court decisions that seek to expand insurance coverage for catastrophe claims beyond the original intent of the policies, seek to prevent the application of deductibles included in the policies or seek to limit the exercise of certain rights available to insurers under the policies. Also, the Company's ability to adjust policy language or terms, including deductible levels, or to increase pricing to the extent necessary to offset rising claim costs related to catastrophes requires approval of insurance regulatory authorities in certain states. The Company's ability or its willingness to manage its catastrophe exposure by raising prices, modifying policy terms or reducing exposure to certain geographies may be limited due to considerations of public policy, an evolving political environment and/or changes in general economic conditions. Furthermore, reduction or elimination of the National Flood Insurance Program could result in an increase in the Company's exposure to flood risk.

Assessments for Guaranty Funds and Second-Injury Funds and Other Mandatory Assigned Risk and Reinsurance Arrangements. As a condition of their authority to transact insurance in virtually all states, property and casualty insurers, including the Company’s domestic insurance subsidiaries, are required to be a member of each state’s guaranty association and to bear a portion of the losses covered by the guaranty association (subject to a statutory maximum covered loss amount which
24

varies by state) suffered by claimants of insurers that become insolvent. Additionally, many states also have laws that establish second-injury funds to provide compensation to injured employees for aggravation of a prior condition or injury.

The Company's domestic insurance subsidiaries are also required to participate in various involuntary assigned risk pools, principally involving workers’ compensation, automobile insurance, property damage due to wind (windpools) in states prone to property damage from hurricanes and Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) plans, as well as automobile assigned risk plans the results of which are not pooled with other carriers, which provide various insurance coverages to individuals or other entities that otherwise are unable to purchase that coverage in the voluntary market.

Other assessments include any charge mandated by statute or regulatory authority that is related directly or indirectly to underwriting activities. Examples of such mechanisms include, but are not limited to, the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund, Florida Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, National Workers’ Compensation Reinsurance Pool, various workers’ compensation related funds (e.g., the Florida Special Disability Trust), North Carolina Beach Plan, Louisiana Citizens Property Insurance Corporation, and the Texas Windstorm Insurance Association. Amounts payable or paid as a result of arrangements that are in substance reinsurance, including certain involuntary pools where insurers are required to assume premiums and losses from those pools, are accounted for as reinsurance (e.g., National Workers’ Compensation Reinsurance Pool, North Carolina Beach Plan). Amounts related to assessments from arrangements that are not reinsurance are reported as a component of “General and Administrative Expenses,” such as the Florida Special Disability Trust. For additional information concerning assessments for guaranty funds and second-injury funds and other mandatory assigned risk and reinsurance agreements including state-funding mechanisms, see “Item 1A—Risk Factors.”

Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS). The NAIC developed the IRIS to help state regulators identify companies that may require regulatory attention. Financial examiners review annual financial statements and the results of key financial ratios based on year-end data with the goal of identifying insurers that appear to require immediate regulatory attention. Each ratio has an established “usual range” of results. A ratio result falling outside the usual range, however, is not necessarily considered adverse; rather, unusual values are used as part of the regulatory early monitoring system. Furthermore, in some years, it may not be unusual for financially sound companies to have several ratios with results outside the usual ranges. Generally, an insurance company may become subject to regulatory scrutiny or, depending on the company’s financial condition, regulatory action if certain of its key IRIS ratios fall outside the usual ranges and the insurer’s financial condition is trending downward.

Based on preliminary 2020 IRIS ratios calculated by the Company for its lead domestic insurance subsidiaries, The Travelers Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the size of its investments in certain non-fixed maturity securities. In 2019, The Travelers Indemnity Company had results outside the normal range for this same ratio and Travelers Casualty and Surety Company had results outside the normal range for one IRIS ratio due to the amount of dividends received from its subsidiaries.
Management does not anticipate regulatory action as a result of the 2020 IRIS ratio results for the lead insurance subsidiaries or their insurance subsidiaries. In all instances in prior years, regulators have been satisfied upon follow-up that no regulatory action was required.

Risk-Based Capital (RBC) Requirements. The NAIC has an RBC requirement which sets forth minimum capital standards for most U.S.-based property and casualty insurance companies that is intended to raise the level of protection for policyholder obligations. The Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to these NAIC RBC requirements based on laws that have been adopted by individual states. These requirements subject insurers having policyholders’ surplus less than that required by the RBC calculation to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. Each of the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries had policyholders’ surplus at December 31, 2020 and 2019 significantly above the level at which any RBC regulatory action would occur.

While there is currently no group regulatory capital requirement for insurers in the United States, a comparison of an insurer’s policyholders’ surplus on a combined basis to the legal entity NAIC RBC requirements on a combined basis can provide useful information regarding an insurance group’s overall capital adequacy in the U.S. The amount of policyholders’ surplus held by the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries at December 31, 2020, determined on a combined basis, significantly exceeded the level at which the subsidiaries would be subject to RBC regulatory action (company action level) on a combined basis at that date.

The formulas have not been designed to differentiate among adequately capitalized companies that operate with levels of capital above the RBC requirement. Therefore, it is inappropriate and ineffective to use the formulas to rate or to rank these companies.

25

Investment Regulation. Insurance company investments must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company was in compliance with these laws and regulations.

Federal Regulation. As mentioned above, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Dodd-Frank Act) established a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) within the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The FIO has limited regulatory authority and is empowered to gather data and information regarding the insurance industry and insurers, but it has in the past recommended an expanded federal role in some circumstances. The Dodd-Frank Act also gives the Federal Reserve supervisory authority over a number of non-bank financial services holding companies, including insurance companies, if they are designated by a two-thirds vote of a Financial Stability Oversight Council (the FSOC) as “systemically important financial institutions” (SIFI) or own a bank or thrift. The Company, based upon the FSOC’s rules and interpretive guidance, has not been designated as a SIFI and is not subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve. Nonetheless, it is possible that FSOC may change its rules or interpretations in the future and conclude that the Company is a SIFI. If the Company were designated as a SIFI, the Federal Reserve’s supervisory authority could include the ability to impose heightened financial regulation and could impact requirements regarding the Company's capital, liquidity and leverage as well as its business and investment conduct. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes assessments to pay for the resolution of SIFIs that have become insolvent. The Company (as a financial company with more than $50 billion in assets) could be assessed, and although any such assessment is required to be risk weighted (i.e., riskier firms pay more), such costs could be material and are not currently estimable. As a result of the foregoing, the Dodd-Frank Act, including any changes thereto, or other additional federal regulation that is adopted in the future, could impose additional burdens on the Company, including impacting the ways in which the Company conducts its business, increasing compliance costs and duplicating state regulation, and could result in a competitive disadvantage, particularly relative to other competitors that may not be subject to the same level of regulation.

International Regulation

The Company's insurance subsidiaries based in Canada, and the Canadian branch of one of the Company’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries, are regulated for solvency purposes by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) under the provisions of the Insurance Companies Act (Canada). These Canadian subsidiaries and the Canadian branch are also subject to Canadian provincial and territorial insurance legislation which regulates market conduct, including pricing, underwriting, coverage and claim conduct, in varying degrees by province/territory and by product line.

The Company's insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom (U.K.) are regulated by two regulatory bodies, The Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The PRA’s primary objective is to promote the safety and soundness of insurers for the protection of policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the U.K. financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers.

The Company's managing agency (Travelers Syndicate Management Limited) (TSML) of its Lloyd’s syndicate (Syndicate 5000 at Lloyd's) is also regulated by the PRA and the FCA, which have delegated certain regulatory responsibilities to the Council of Lloyd's. Travelers Syndicate 5000 is able to write business in over 200 territories and jurisdictions throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd's international licenses. In each such jurisdiction, the policies written by TSML, as part of Lloyd’s, are subject to the laws and insurance regulations of that jurisdiction. Travelers Underwriting Agency Limited, which as an insurance intermediary is regulated by the FCA, produces insurance business for Travelers Syndicate 5000. Xbridge Limited, operating under the trade name Simply Business, is an insurance intermediary that provides products for small commercial customers in the U.K. via a panel of insurance companies and is also regulated by the FCA.

During 2020, The Company's operations in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland were also subject to regulation by the European Union (EU). Generally, EU requirements are adopted by the EU and then implemented by enabling legislation in the member countries. Significant areas of oversight and influence from the EU include capital and solvency requirements (Solvency II), competition law and antitrust regulation, intermediary and distribution regulation, gender discrimination and data security and privacy. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain Solvency II requirements if the regulator determines that the subsidiary’s capital position is dependent on the parent company and the U.S. Parent is not already subject to regulations deemed “equivalent” to Solvency II. Currently, as a result of the Covered Agreements described below, the state regulatory system governing U.S. insurers is deemed “equivalent” for purposes of Solvency II.

26

As of December 31, 2020, The Company's operations in the U.K. are no longer subject to EU regulations. The applicability of the EU requirements to The Company's businesses in the U.K. may change in ways yet to be determined as a result of the U.K.’s exit from the EU on January 31, 2020, and its exit from the E.U. single market on December 31, 2020. It is expected that the U.K. will continue to apply the requirements of Solvency II to insurers operating in the U.K.

As a result of the U.K.'s exit from the EU, Travelers is conducting its insurance operations in the Republic of Ireland and across Europe through an insurance subsidiary that is incorporated in the Republic of Ireland and authorized and regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland. Certain operations are conducted in the U.K. through a U.K. branch of the Irish subsidiary, which is supervised by the PRA and FCA as well as the Central Bank of Ireland. Since January 1, 2019, The Company has used a Lloyd's insurance subsidiary in Brussels, Belgium (Lloyd's Brussels) to cover its Lloyd's customers' risks in the EU. Lloyd’s Brussels is regulated by the National Bank of Belgium.

Each of the Company’s foreign insurance subsidiaries had capital significantly above their respective regulatory requirements at December 31, 2020.

Regulators in countries where the Company has operations are working with the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) (and with the NAIC, the Federal Reserve and FIO in the U.S.) to consider changes to insurance company supervision, including group supervision and group capital requirements.

The IAIS has developed a methodology for identifying “global systemically important insurers” (G-SIIs) and high-level policy measures that will apply to the G-SIIs. The methodology and measures were endorsed by the Financial Stability Board (FSB) created by the G-20; however, identification of G-SIIs was suspended effective with the beginning of 2020. The Company has not previously been designated as a G-SII by the FSB; however, it is possible that the designation of G-SIIs could be reinstituted, the methodologies could be amended or interpreted differently in the future and the Company could be named as a G-SII.

The IAIS is also in the process of completing its Consultation Draft on the Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups (known as ComFrame). Once ComFrame is completed, it likely will lead to similar policy measures as those being developed for G-SIIs being made applicable to internationally active insurance groups (or “IAIGs”), including group supervision, group capital requirements, and resolution planning, i.e., a written plan developed by a financial group detailing how it would be wound down in the event of an insolvency. While the Company would not be considered an IAIG under the current Consultation Draft, it is possible that the Consultation Draft could be changed. If the Company is designated as an IAIG or the NAIC and individual states adopt the proposed or similar provisions for large insurers, the Company could be subject to increased supervision and higher capital standards.

Covered Agreements

The U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative have signed covered agreements (the Covered Agreements) regarding prudential (solvency) insurance and reinsurance measures with each of the EU and the U.K. The Covered Agreements include three areas of prudential insurance supervision: reinsurance contracts, group supervision, and the exchange of information between U.S. and U.K. regulators and between U.S. and EU regulators on insurers and reinsurers that operate in the U.S., U.K. and EU markets. The Covered Agreement with the EU went into effect in April 2018, while the Covered Agreement with the U.K. took full effect upon the U.K.'s exit from the EU on January 31, 2020. The Covered Agreements are intended to promote cooperation between U.S. insurance regulators and EU and U.K. insurance regulators and to limit the ability of the EU and the U.K. to apply solvency and group capital requirements to the worldwide operations of any U.S. insurer operating in the EU or the U.K. It is possible that individual members of the EU could differ in how they adopt or implement the Covered Agreement, resulting in greater regulation and higher capital standards as well as inconsistent regulatory requirements among the jurisdictions that the Company does business. While it is not yet known how or if these actions will impact us, such regulation could result in increased costs of compliance, increased disclosure and less flexibility in our capital management, and could adversely impact our results of operations and limit our growth.

The Covered Agreements eliminate the collateral and local presence requirements for EU and U.K. reinsurers operating in the U.S., and for U.S. reinsurers operating in the EU and U.K., as a condition for credit for reinsurance in regulatory reporting and capital requirements. The prospective elimination of the collateral requirements is conditioned on the reinsurer meeting capital and solvency standards and maintaining a record of prompt payments to ceding insurers. The Covered Agreements include a five-year transition period to full compliance in the impacted jurisdictions.

27

Insurance Holding Company Statutes

As a holding company, TRV is not regulated as an insurance company. However, since TRV owns capital stock in insurance subsidiaries, it is subject to state insurance holding company statutes, as well as certain other laws, of each of its insurance subsidiaries’ states of domicile. All holding company statutes, as well as other laws, require disclosure and, in some instances, prior approval of certain transactions between an insurance company and an affiliate. The holding company statutes and other laws also require, among other things, prior approval for acquiring control of a domestic insurer, some transactions between affiliates and the payment of extraordinary dividends or distributions.

Insurance Regulations Concerning Change of Control. Many state insurance regulatory laws contain provisions that require advance approval by state agencies of any change in control of an insurance company that is domiciled, or, in some cases, having substantial business that it is deemed to be commercially domiciled, in that state.

The laws of many states also contain provisions requiring pre-notification to state agencies prior to any change in control of a non-domestic insurance company admitted to transact business in that state. While these pre-notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, they do authorize issuance of cease-and-desist orders with respect to the non-domestic insurer if it is determined that some conditions, such as undue market concentration, would result from the acquisition.

Any transactions that would constitute a change in control of any of TRV’s insurance subsidiaries would generally require prior approval by the insurance departments of the states in which the insurance subsidiaries are domiciled or commercially domiciled. They may also require pre-acquisition notification in those states that have adopted pre-acquisition notification provisions and in which such insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business.

Two of TRV’s insurance subsidiaries and its operations at Lloyd’s are domiciled in the United Kingdom and one of its insurance subsidiaries is domiciled in the Republic of Ireland. Insurers in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland are subject to change of control restrictions, including approval of the PRA and FCA and of the Central Bank of Ireland, respectively. TRV’s insurance subsidiaries domiciled in, or authorized to conduct insurance business in, Canada are also subject to regulatory change of control restrictions, including approval of OSFI. TRV’s Brazilian joint venture is subject to regulatory change of control and other share transfer restrictions, including approval of SUSEP.

These requirements may deter, delay or prevent transactions affecting the control of or the ownership of common stock, including transactions that could be advantageous to TRV’s shareholders.

Regulatory Developments

The state insurance regulatory framework has been under continuing scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators continually re-examine existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws and regulations.

As part of these changes, insurance holding company regulations were amended to require insurers who are part of a holding company system to file an enterprise risk report to provide the lead insurance regulator with a summary of the company’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, including the material risks within the insurance holding company system that could pose risk to the insurance entities within the holding company system. Insurers having premium volume above certain thresholds, including the Company, are also required to perform at least annually a self-assessment of their current and future risks, including their likely future solvency position (known as an own risk and solvency assessment or ORSA) and file a confidential report with the insurer’s lead insurance regulator. The requirement for an insurer to conduct an ORSA is intended to foster an effective level of ERM for all insurers within a holding company system, and to provide a group-wide perspective on risks and capital as a supplement to the legal entity view. ORSA is now included in the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) standards and is in various stages of implementation in the United States, the U.K., Europe, Canada, and other jurisdictions. It is possible that, as a result of ORSA and the manner in which it may be used by insurance regulators, the Company's states of domicile or other regulatory bodies may require changes in its ERM process (e.g., prescribe the use of specific models or the application of certain assumptions or scenarios in the Company’s models) that have the effect of limiting the Company's ability to write certain risks, limit its risk appetite to write additional business or reduce its capital management flexibility. See “Item 1—Business—Enterprise Risk Management” for further discussion of the Company’s ERM.

28

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
As a large property and casualty insurance enterprise, the Company is exposed to many risks. These risks are a function of the products the Company writes and the environments within which the Company operates. Since certain risks can be correlated with other risks, an event or a series of events can impact multiple areas of the Company simultaneously and have a material effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity. These exposures require an entity-wide view of risk and an understanding of the potential impact on all aspects of the Company’s operations. It also requires the Company to manage its risk-taking to be within its risk appetite in a prudent and balanced effort to create and preserve value for all of the Company’s stakeholders. The Company's Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) activities involve both the identification and assessment of a broad range of risks and the execution of coordinated strategies to effectively manage these risks. ERM also includes an evaluation of the Company’s risk capital needs, which takes into account regulatory requirements and credit rating considerations, in addition to economic and other factors. ERM at the Company is an integral part of its business operations. All risk owners across all functions, all corporate leaders and the Board of Directors are engaged in ERM. ERM involves risk-based analytics, as well as reporting and feedback throughout the enterprise in support of the Company’s long-term financial strategies and objectives.

The Company uses various analyses and methods, including proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes, to make underwriting and reinsurance decisions designed to manage its exposure to catastrophic events. In addition to catastrophe modeling and analysis, the Company also models and analyzes its exposure to other extreme events. The Company also utilizes proprietary and third-party computer modeling processes to evaluate capital adequacy. These analytical techniques are an integral component of the Company’s ERM process and further support the Company’s long-term financial strategies and objectives.

In addition to the day-to-day ERM activities within the Company’s operations, key internal risk management functions include, among others, the Management and Operating Committees (comprised of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the other most senior members of management), the Enterprise and Business Risk Committees of management, the Credit Committee, Chief Legal Officer, General Counsel, the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, the Corporate Actuarial group, the Corporate Audit group, the Corporate Controller group, the Accounting Policy group and the Enterprise Underwriting group, among others. A senior executive team comprised of the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief Underwriting Officer oversees the ERM process.  The mission of this team is to facilitate risk assessment and to collaborate in implementing effective risk management strategies throughout the Company. Another strategic ERM objective of this team includes working across the Company to enhance effective and realistic risk modeling capabilities as part of the Company’s overall effort to understand and manage its portfolio of risks to be within its risk appetite. Board oversight of ERM is provided by the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors, which reviews the strategies, processes and controls pertaining to the Company’s insurance operations and oversees the implementation, execution and performance of the Company’s ERM program. The Risk Committee of the Board of Directors meets with senior management at least four times a year to discuss ERM activities and provides a report to the full Board of Directors after each such meeting.

The Company’s ERM efforts build upon the foundation of an effective internal control environment.  ERM expands the internal control objectives of effective and efficient operations, reliable financial reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations, to foster, lead and support an integrated, risk-based culture within the Company that focuses on value creation and preservation.  However, the Company can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that these objectives will be met.  Further, the design of any risk management or control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits must be considered relative to their costs.  As a result, the possibility of material financial loss remains in spite of the Company’s significant and comprehensive ERM efforts.  An investor should carefully consider the risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report, including the discussions included in “Item 1A—Risk Factors,” “Item 7A—Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” and “Item 8—Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.”

OTHER INFORMATION
Seasonality
A discussion of the extent to which the Company’s business may be seasonal can be found under “Outlook” within “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.

29

Human Capital Management 
At December 31, 2020, the Company had approximately 30,600 employees, 98% of whom are full-time employees. Over 90% of the Company’s employees are located in the United States. The following table shows the geographic distribution of the Company’s employees as of December 31, 2020:

Location		% of Total	Domestic:		 	Connecticut		24.1 	%	New York		7.3 		Minnesota		7.2 		Texas		6.6 		California		5.3 		Florida		3.8 		Georgia		3.4 		Colorado		3.0 		
All other domestic (1)
30.2 		Total Domestic		90.9 					International:			Canada		5.0 		United Kingdom		4.0 		All other international		0.1 		Total International		9.1 		Consolidated total		100.0 	% 
___________________________________________
(1)No other single state accounted for 3.0% or more of the Company’s employees as of December 31, 2020.

Despite the public health crisis, during 2020, the Company hired more than 1,900 full-time employees, nearly a third of whom filled important technology and data and analytics positions. The Company did not implement any reductions in its workforce or reduce salaries as a result of the pandemic during 2020.

The average employee tenure at the Company is 12 years, and over 20 years for the Company’s approximately 600 most senior leaders. The Company’s average global voluntary turnover rate over the past three years was approximately 7%. The Company believes that these employee tenure and voluntary turnover rates are due, in part, to the resources and support the Company provides to employees throughout their careers, as discussed below.

Maintaining an Ethical Culture

The Company’s culture of honesty, integrity and accountability is critical to its long-term success. To support this culture, the Company promotes ethics and compliance awareness across its operations. On an annual basis, all employees of the Company’s wholly owned subsidiaries are required to complete the Company’s ethics training and certify that they have reviewed, understand and agree to comply with the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and other applicable Company policies.

The Company provides employees with multiple channels to raise concerns, including the Human Resources, Employee Relations and Compliance functions, as well as the Travelers Ethics Helpline. The Company’s independently administered Ethics Helpline is available to employees and others 24 hours a day, seven days a week to report issues or seek guidance confidentially and anonymously. Trained professionals investigate each concern and, where appropriate, escalate it internally. In addition, the Company maintains a formal Whistleblowing and Non-Retaliation Policy that prohibits retaliation against, or discipline of, an employee who raises concerns in good faith.

30

Employee Engagement

The Company strives to deliver an employee experience that engages its workforce and strengthens the organization, including, where appropriate, through action plans intended to create a more meaningful employee experience. These plans are generated, in part, through team conversations and are designed to hold managers accountable for increasing their employees’ engagement. In addition, the Company’s Chief Human Resources Officer meets regularly with the Chief Executive Officer and other senior leaders to discuss employee engagement strategies and the Company’s progress. Based on the Company's employee tenure and voluntary turnover rates, as discussed above, as well as other means the Company uses to evaluate the employee experience and the success of its engagement efforts, the Company believes that its engagement efforts are effective.

Learning and Development

The Company offers various learning and development opportunities to provide its employees with the skills and capabilities they need to be successful. For example, managers participate in the Company’s leadership workshop, Leadership Challenge©, which provides an overview of key leadership practices at the Company. These practices are designed to enable leaders to increase engagement and inclusion, lead change, drive innovation, tie business goals to a greater purpose and coach people to higher levels of performance. The Company also offers three additional foundational workshops centered on leadership: Leadership Principles, Coaching for Performance Excellence, and Managing Inclusion.

In addition, the Company offers career mentorship and development programs for both entry-level and experienced professionals. For example, the Company’s multi-year entry-level Leadership Development Programs provide employees with an opportunity to progress through a steady career path in a specific discipline such as Actuarial, Business Insights & Analytics, Data Science, Finance, Human Resources, Technology or Operations. Participants complete assignments and rotations designed to help them build upon their strategic thinking skills and business acumen. In addition, the Company’s Development Programs in Underwriting, Investments and Product Management provide the foundational knowledge and technical skills necessary for success and include on-the-job training, classroom instruction, self-study materials and independent work in an assigned business area. These programs have been a part of the Company’s talent strategy for many years.

In 2020, the Company also added a senior-level position responsible for monitoring the development of talented employees to support them in developing the skills necessary to advance their career and expanding their relationships to ensure their success.

Diversity and Inclusion

The Company believes that its diversity and inclusion efforts are important to its success. The Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer leads the Company’s diversity and inclusion efforts. The Company also has a Diversity Council that is chaired by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, comprising the 40 members of the Company’s Operating Committee.

The Company provides training, development and cultural events to encourage an inclusive culture among its employees, including the Company’s leadership. Among others, the Company offers training with respect to conscious inclusion, unconscious bias, and harassment awareness, as ways to ensure a respectful work environment and adherence to applicable legal requirements.
The Company also has eight Diversity Networks – voluntary groups led by employees, dedicated to fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment. The networks help foster the retention, development and success of the Company’s employees through networking, mentorship and community volunteer opportunities. In addition, these groups are a resource for the Company’s business leaders, providing them with important insights and perspectives. More than 11,000 employees – over a third of the Company's employee population – are members of one or more of the Company's Diversity Networks.
The Company also continues to improve its diverse talent pipeline. The Company has established deliberate recruiting, retention and development practices that are tailored to deepen diverse talent pools and broaden advancement opportunities. These practices include matching upcoming leaders with mentors within the organization and offering workshops to advance their careers within the Company. The Company also uses various talent acquisition strategies, including sourcing strategies and initiatives and partnerships with college diversity groups and other organizations, to help create a pipeline of diverse candidates.

The Company has made significant progress over the past decade in increasing its diverse talent. In each of the last 10 years, the Company has increased the percentage of people of color (as defined by the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's EEO-1 race and ethnicity categories for the U.S.) in its U.S. workforce. As of December 31, 2020, women and people of color represented approximately 55% and 25% of its U.S. workforce, respectively. The Company continues to make
31

progress in promoting women and people of color. In each of the last 10 years, the Company has increased the percentage of women and people of color in U.S. management-level positions.

Performance and Succession

The Company’s performance management strategy is designed to develop the Company’s talent and equip employees with the skills and resources necessary to ensure the Company’s continued success. To that end, managers assist with setting and monitoring goals, planning, development and discussing opportunities for improvement throughout the year.
The Company also conducts a comprehensive annual talent review, which includes succession planning, to identify and prepare talented employees for future leadership positions. Each line of business identifies talented employees and succession candidates for targeted development and advancement opportunities. This talent review process culminates with the Chief Executive Officer and those reporting directly to him meeting to review succession plans for key positions. In addition, at least annually, the Chief Executive Officer meets with the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors and the full Board of Directors to discuss succession-related matters.
Compensation and Benefits

The Company’s compensation and benefits programs are designed to attract, motivate and retain high performing employees and to help employees be healthy and productive in all aspects of their lives.

Paying employees equitably is the foundation of the Company’s performance-based culture. The Company has comprehensive processes and controls in place and reviews its compensation practices annually with independent, outside experts, in each case to help ensure equitable pay across the Company. Based in part on these measures, the Company believes that it pays its employees equitably, regardless of gender, race or any other protected classification.

The Company’s minimum hourly wage in the United States is $15. As calculated and reported in the Company’s most recent Proxy Statement filed in April 2020, excluding the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, (i) the median of the annual total compensation of all the Company’s employees was more than $111,000, and (ii) the median of the annual total compensation of the Company’s full-time U.S. employees who worked for the Company for the entire year, who comprised over 90% of its workforce, was nearly $128,000.

The Company takes a holistic approach with respect to the physical, emotional, mental and financial well-being of its employees. The Company offers comprehensive, flexible benefit options for its employees. In the United States, these include, among others:

Health and Wellness

•Medical, dental, vision and prescription drug coverage;
•Health savings and flexible spending accounts;
•The myWellness platform, a virtual application containing wellness tools and resources to help employees achieve their physical, mental and wellness goals;
•Round-the-clock access to Life Balance, the Company’s employee assistance program, which provides employees access to professional counseling services, life coaching, personalized mentoring and support resources; and
•Grand Rounds, a free service for employees and dependents enrolled in the Company’s medical plan that matches members to top-ranked doctors, provides expert second opinions and assists in navigating the health care system.

Savings and Retirement

•A 401(k) Savings Plan, through which the Company matches employee contributions dollar-for-dollar up to 5% of eligible pay, up to a maximum annual Company match of $7,000;
•The Paying It Forward Savings Program, through which the Company supports employees with student loans by making an annual contribution in the employee’s 401(k) account equal to the annual student loan payments. The combined maximum of the 401(k) match and the Paying It Forward savings contribution is 5% of eligible pay, up to a maximum of $7,000;
•A pension plan that provides annual pay credits from 2% to 6% of eligible pay based on age and years of service, plus quarterly interest credits;
•Financial wellness assessments; and
•Retirement planning services.

32

Other

•Life insurance;
•Short- and long-term disability coverages;
•Paid time-off, starting at 20 days per year, up to a maximum of 30 days per year based on years of service, plus the ability to purchase up to 6 additional days per year;
•Paid parental and adoption leave;
•Childcare discounts;
•A corporate discount program; and
•Paid time off for volunteering.

Board Oversight of Human Capital Management

The Company’s Board of Directors takes an active role in overseeing the Company’s human capital management strategy, including its diversity and inclusion efforts. The Chief Human Resources Officer and other senior executives present to the Board regularly on human capital management matters, including the progress the Company has made over time. Additionally, pursuant to its charter, the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board meets regularly with senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Human Resources Officer and the Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer, to review and discuss the Company’s strategies to encourage diversity and inclusion within the Company. Pursuant to its charter, the Compensation Committee of the Board, which is advised by an independent compensation consultant, reviews and approves the Company’s general compensation philosophy and objectives. In addition, the Compensation Committee meets with senior management on a regular basis to discuss the Company’s practices designed to help ensure equitable pay across the organization.

Taxation
For a discussion of tax matters affecting the Company and its operations, see “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 13 of notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Intellectual Property
The Company relies on a combination of contractual rights and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect its intellectual property.  With respect to trademarks specifically, the Company has registrations in many countries, including the United States, for its material trademarks, including the “Travelers” name and the Company’s iconic umbrella logo. The Company has the right to retain its material trademark rights in perpetuity, so long as it satisfies the use and registration requirements of all applicable countries.  The Company regards its trademarks as highly valuable assets in marketing its products and services and vigorously seeks to protect its trademarks against infringement. See “Item 1A—Risk Factors—Intellectual property is important to our business, and we may be unable to protect and enforce our own intellectual property or we may be subject to claims for infringing the intellectual property of others.”

Company Website, Social Media and Availability of SEC Filings
The Company’s internet website is www.travelers.com. Information on the Company’s website is not incorporated by reference herein and is not a part of this Form 10-K. The Company makes available free of charge on its website or provides a link on its website to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after those reports are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. To access these filings, go to the Company’s website and under the “Investors” heading, click on “Financial Information” then “SEC Filings.”

The Company may use its website and/or social media outlets, such as Facebook and Twitter, as distribution channels of material company information.  Financial and other important information regarding the Company is routinely posted on and accessible through the Company’s website at http://investor.travelers.com, its Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/travelers and its Twitter account (@Travelers) at https://www.twitter.com/Travelers. In addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about the Company when you enroll your email address by visiting “Email Notifications” under the "Investor Toolkit" section at http://investor.travelers.com.


33


Glossary of Selected Insurance Terms
Accident year		The annual calendar accounting period in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid.				Adjusted unassigned surplus		Unassigned surplus as of the most recent statutory annual report reduced by twenty-five percent of that year’s unrealized appreciation in value or revaluation of assets or unrealized profits on investments, as defined in that report.				Admitted insurer		A company licensed to transact insurance business within a state.				Agent		A licensed individual who sells and services insurance policies, receiving a commission from the insurer for selling the business and a fee for servicing it. An independent agent represents multiple insurance companies and searches the market for the best product for its client.				Annuity		A contract that pays a periodic benefit over the remaining life of a person (the annuitant), the lives of two or more persons or for a specified period of time.				Assigned risk pools		Reinsurance pools which cover risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible reasons for this inability include the risk being too great or the profit being too small under the required insurance rate structure. The costs of the risks associated with these pools are charged back to insurance carriers in proportion to their direct writings.				Assumed reinsurance		Insurance risks acquired from a ceding company.				Book value per share		Total common shareholders’ equity divided by the number of common shares outstanding.				Broker		One who negotiates contracts of insurance or reinsurance on behalf of an insured party, receiving a commission from the insurer or reinsurer for placement and other services rendered.				Capacity		The percentage of statutory capital and surplus, or the dollar amount of exposure, that an insurer or reinsurer is willing or able to place at risk. Capacity may apply to a single risk, a program, a line of business or an entire book of business. Capacity may be constrained by legal restrictions, corporate restrictions or indirect restrictions.				Captive		A closely-held insurance company whose primary purpose is to provide insurance coverage to the company’s owners or their affiliates.				Case reserves		Claim department estimates of anticipated future payments to be made on each specific individual reported claim.				Casualty insurance		Insurance which is primarily concerned with the losses caused by injuries to third persons, i.e., not the insured, and the legal liability imposed on the insured resulting therefrom. It includes, but is not limited to, employers’ liability, workers’ compensation, public liability, automobile liability, personal liability and aviation liability insurance. It excludes certain types of losses that by law or custom are considered as being exclusively within the scope of other types of insurance, such as fire or marine.			 
34

Catastrophe		
A severe loss designated a catastrophe by internationally recognized organizations that track and report on insured losses resulting from catastrophic events, such as Property Claim Services (PCS) for events in the United States and Canada. Catastrophes include hurricanes, tornadoes and other windstorms, earthquakes, hail, wildfires, severe winter weather, floods, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions, solar flares and other naturally-occurring events. Catastrophes can also be man-made, such as terrorist attacks and other intentionally destructive acts including those involving nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological events, cyber events, civil unrest, explosions and destruction of infrastructure. Each catastrophe has unique characteristics and catastrophes are not predictable as to timing or amount. Their effects are included in net and core income and claims and claim adjustment expense reserves upon occurrence. A catastrophe may result in the payment of reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.

The Company’s threshold for disclosing catastrophes is primarily determined at the reportable segment level. If a threshold for one segment or a combination thereof is exceeded and the other segments have losses from the same event, losses from the event are identified as catastrophe losses in the segment results and for the consolidated results of the Company. Additionally, an aggregate threshold is applied for International business across all reportable segments. The threshold for 2020 ranged from approximately $20 million to $30 million of losses before reinsurance and taxes.
Catastrophe loss		Loss and directly identified loss adjustment expenses from catastrophes, as well as related reinsurance reinstatement premiums and assessments from various pools.
Catastrophe reinsurance		A form of excess-of-loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the ceding company for the amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect to an accumulation of losses and related reinsurance reinstatement premiums resulting from a catastrophic event. The actual reinsurance document is called a “catastrophe cover.” These reinsurance contracts are typically designed to cover property insurance losses but can be written to cover casualty insurance losses such as from workers’ compensation policies.				Cede; ceding company		When an insurer reinsures its liability with another insurer or a “cession,” it “cedes” business and is referred to as the “ceding company.”				Ceded reinsurance		Insurance risks transferred to another company as reinsurance. See “Reinsurance.”				Claim		Request by an insured for indemnification by an insurance company for loss incurred from an insured peril.				Claim adjustment expenses		See “Loss adjustment expenses (LAE).”				
Claims and claim adjustment expenses
See “Loss” and “Loss adjustment expenses (LAE).”				
Claims and claim adjustment expense reserves
See “Loss reserves.”				Cohort		A group of items or individuals that share a particular statistical or demographic characteristic. For example, all claims for a given product in a given market for a given accident year would represent a cohort of claims.			 
35

Combined ratio		
For Statutory Accounting Practices (SAP), the combined ratio is the sum of the SAP loss and LAE ratio and the SAP underwriting expense ratio as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The combined ratio as used in this report is the equivalent of, and is calculated in the same manner as, the SAP combined ratio except that the SAP underwriting expense ratio is based on net written premium and the underwriting expense ratio as used in this report is based on net earned premiums.
The combined ratio is an indicator of the Company’s underwriting discipline, efficiency in acquiring and servicing its business and overall underwriting profitability. A combined ratio under 100% generally indicates an underwriting profit. A combined ratio over 100% generally indicates an underwriting loss.	 		Other companies’ method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company’s method of computing this ratio.				Commercial multi-peril policies		Refers to policies which cover both property and third-party liability exposures.				Commutation agreement		An agreement between a reinsurer and a ceding company whereby the reinsurer pays an agreed-upon amount in exchange for a complete discharge of all obligations, including future obligations, between the parties for reinsurance losses incurred.				Core income (loss)		Consolidated net income (loss) excluding the after-tax impact of net realized investment gains (losses), discontinued operations, the effect of a change in tax laws and tax rates at enactment date, and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles when applicable. Financial statement users consider core income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.
Debt-to-total capital ratio		The ratio of debt to total capitalization.				
Debt-to-total capital ratio excluding net unrealized gain (loss) on investments
The ratio of debt to total capitalization excluding the after-tax impact of net unrealized investment gains and losses included in shareholders' equity.				Deductible		The amount of loss that an insured retains.				Deferred acquisition costs (DAC)		Incremental direct costs of acquired and renewal insurance contracts, consisting of commissions (other than contingent commissions) and premium-related taxes that are deferred and amortized to achieve a matching of revenues and expenses when reported in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).				Deficiency		With regard to reserves for a given liability, a deficiency exists when it is estimated or determined that the reserves are insufficient to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the deficiency is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of deficiency (or even the finding of whether or not a deficiency exists) may change as new information becomes available.				Demand surge		Significant short-term increases in building material and labor costs due to a sharp increase in demand for those materials and services, commonly as a result of a large catastrophe resulting in significant widespread property damage.				Direct written premiums		The amounts charged by an insurer to insureds in exchange for coverages provided in accordance with the terms of an insurance contract. The amounts exclude the impact of all reinsurance premiums, either assumed or ceded. 
36

Earned premiums or premiums earned
That portion of property casualty premiums written that applies to the expired portion of the policy term. Earned premiums are recognized as revenues under both SAP and GAAP.				
 Excess and surplus lines insurance
Insurance for risks not covered by standard insurance due to the unique nature of the risk. Risks could be placed in excess and surplus lines markets due to any number of characteristics, such as loss experience, unique or unusual exposures, or insufficient experience in business.  Excess and surplus lines are less regulated by the states, allowing greater flexibility to design specific insurance coverage and negotiate pricing based on the risks to be secured.				Excess liability		Additional casualty coverage above a layer of insurance exposures.				Excess-of-loss reinsurance		Reinsurance that indemnifies the reinsured against all or a specified portion of losses over a specified dollar amount or “retention.”				Exposure		The measure of risk used in the pricing of an insurance product.  The change in exposure is the amount of change in premium on policies that renew attributable to the change in portfolio risk.				Facultative reinsurance		The reinsurance of all or a portion of the insurance provided by a single policy. Each policy reinsured is separately negotiated.				
Fair Access to Insurance Requirements (FAIR) Plan
A residual market mechanism which provides property insurance to those unable to obtain such insurance through the regular (voluntary) market. FAIR plans are set up on a state-by-state basis to cover only those risks in that state. For more information, see “residual market (involuntary business).”				Fidelity and surety programs		Fidelity insurance coverage protects an insured for loss due to embezzlement or misappropriation of funds by an employee. Surety is a three-party agreement in which the insurer agrees to pay a third party or make complete an obligation in response to the default, acts or omissions of an insured.				Gross written premiums		The direct and assumed contractually determined amounts charged to the policyholders for the effective period of the contract based on the terms and conditions of the insurance contract.				Ground-up analysis		A method to estimate ultimate claim costs for a given cohort of claims such as an accident year/product line component. It involves analyzing the exposure and claim activity at an individual insured level and then through the use of deterministic or stochastic scenarios and/or simulations, estimating the ultimate losses for those insureds. The total losses for the cohort are then the sum of the losses for each individual insured.
In practice, the method is sometimes simplified by performing the individual insured analysis only for the larger insureds, with the costs for the smaller insureds estimated via sampling approaches (extrapolated to the rest of the smaller insured population) or aggregate approaches (using assumptions consistent with the ground-up larger insured analysis).				Guaranteed-cost products		An insurance policy where the premiums charged will not be adjusted for actual loss experience during the covered period.				Guaranty fund		A state-regulated mechanism that is financed by assessing insurers doing business in those states. Should insolvencies occur, these funds are available to meet some or all of the insolvent insurer’s obligations to policyholders. 
37

Holding company liquidity		Total cash, short-term invested assets and other readily marketable securities held by the holding company.				
Incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves
Reserves for estimated losses and LAE that have been incurred but not yet reported to the insurer. This includes amounts for unreported claims, development on known cases and re-opened claims.				Inland marine		A broad type of insurance generally covering articles that may be transported from one place to another, as well as bridges, tunnels and other instrumentalities of transportation. It includes goods in transit, generally other than transoceanic, and may include policies for movable objects such as personal effects, personal property, jewelry, furs, fine art and others.				
Insurance Regulatory Information System (IRIS) ratios
Financial ratios calculated by the NAIC to assist state insurance departments in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies.				Large deductible policy		An insurance policy where the customer assumes at least $25,000 or more of each loss. Typically, the insurer is responsible for paying the entire loss under those policies and then seeks reimbursement from the insured for the deductible amount.				Lloyd’s		An insurance marketplace based in London, England, where brokers, representing clients with insurable risks, deal with Lloyd’s underwriters, who represent investors. The investors are grouped together into syndicates that provide capital to insure the risks.				Loss		An occurrence that is the basis for submission and/or payment of a claim. Losses may be covered, limited or excluded from coverage, depending on the terms of the policy.				Loss adjustment expenses (LAE)		The expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and the portion of general expenses allocated to claim settlement costs.				Loss and LAE ratio		For SAP, the loss and LAE ratio is the ratio of incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses less certain administrative services fee income to net earned premiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The loss and LAE ratio as used in this report is calculated in the same manner as the SAP ratio.
The loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company’s underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability.			Other companies’ method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company’s method of computing this ratio.				Loss reserves		Liabilities established by insurers and reinsurers to reflect the estimated cost of claims incurred that the insurer or reinsurer will ultimately be required to pay in respect of insurance or reinsurance it has written. Reserves are established for losses and for LAE, and consist of case reserves and IBNR reserves. As the term is used in this document, “loss reserves” is meant to include reserves for both losses and LAE.				Loss reserve development		The increase or decrease in incurred claims and claim adjustment expenses as a result of the re-estimation of claims and claim adjustment expense reserves at successive valuation dates for a given group of claims. Loss reserve development may be related to prior year or current year development.			 
38

Losses incurred		The total losses sustained by an insurance company under a policy or policies, whether paid or unpaid. Incurred losses include a provision for IBNR.				
National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)
An organization of the insurance commissioners or directors of all 50 states, the District of Columbia and the five U.S. territories organized to promote consistency of regulatory practice and statutory accounting standards throughout the United States.				Net written premiums		Direct written premiums plus assumed reinsurance premiums less premiums ceded to reinsurers.				New business volume		The amount of written premiums related to new policyholders and additional products sold to existing policyholders.				Pool		An organization of insurers or reinsurers through which particular types of risks are underwritten with premiums, losses and expenses being shared in agreed-upon percentages.				Premiums		The amount charged during the year on policies and contracts issued, renewed or reinsured by an insurance company.				Probable maximum loss (PML)		The maximum amount of loss that the Company would be expected to incur on a policy if a loss were to occur, giving effect to collateral, reinsurance and other factors.				Property insurance		Insurance that provides coverage to a person or business with an insurable interest in tangible property for that person’s or business’s property loss, damage or loss of use.				Quota share reinsurance		Reinsurance wherein the insurer cedes an agreed-upon fixed percentage of liabilities, premiums and losses for each policy covered on a pro rata basis.				Rates		Amounts charged per unit of insurance.				Redundancy		With regard to reserves for a given liability, a redundancy exists when it is estimated or determined that the reserves are greater than what will be needed to pay the ultimate settlement value of the related liabilities. Where the redundancy is the result of an estimate, the estimated amount of redundancy (or even the finding of whether or not a redundancy exists) may change as new information becomes available.				Reinstatement premiums		Additional premiums payable to reinsurers to restore coverage limits that have been exhausted as a result of reinsured losses under certain excess-of-loss reinsurance treaties.				Reinsurance		The practice whereby one insurer, called the reinsurer, in consideration of a premium paid to that insurer, agrees to indemnify another insurer, called the ceding company, for part or all of the liability of the ceding company under one or more policies or contracts of insurance which it has issued.				Reinsurance agreement		A contract specifying the terms of a reinsurance transaction.				Renewal premium change		The estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, including rate and exposure changes. Such statistics are subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in estimates. 
39

Renewal rate change		The estimated change in average premium on policies that renew, excluding exposure changes. Such statistics are subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in estimates.				
Residual market (involuntary business)
Insurance market which provides coverage for risks for those unable to purchase insurance in the voluntary market. Possible reasons for this inability include the risks being too great or the profit potential too small under the required insurance rate structure. Residual markets are frequently created by state legislation either because of lack of available coverage such as: property coverage in a windstorm prone area or protection of the accident victim as in the case of workers’ compensation. The costs of the residual market are usually charged back to the direct insurance carriers in proportion to the carriers’ voluntary market shares for the type of coverage involved.				Retention		The amount of exposure a policyholder company retains on any one risk or group of risks. The term may apply to an insurance policy, where the policyholder is an individual, family or business, or a reinsurance policy, where the policyholder is an insurance company.				Retention rate		The percentage of prior period premiums (excluding renewal premium changes), accounts or policies available for renewal in the current period that were renewed. Such statistics are subject to change based on a number of factors, including changes in estimates.				Retrospective premiums		Premiums related to retrospectively rated policies.				Retrospective rating		A plan or method which permits adjustment of the final premium or commission on the basis of actual loss experience, subject to certain minimum and maximum limits.				Return on equity		The ratio of net income (loss) less preferred dividends to average shareholders’ equity.				Risk-based capital (RBC)		A measure adopted by the NAIC and enacted by states for determining the minimum statutory policyholders’ surplus requirements of insurers. Insurers having total adjusted capital less than that required by the RBC calculation will be subject to varying degrees of regulatory action depending on the level of capital inadequacy.				Risk retention group		An alternative form of insurance in which members of a similar profession or business band together to self insure their risks.				Runoff business		An operation which has been determined to be nonstrategic; includes non-renewals of in-force policies and a cessation of writing new business, where allowed by law.				Salvage		The amount of money an insurer recovers through the sale of property transferred to the insurer as a result of a loss payment.				Second-injury fund		The employer of an injured, impaired worker is responsible only for the workers’ compensation benefit for the most recent injury; the second-injury fund would cover the cost of any additional benefits for aggravation of a prior condition. The cost is shared by the insurance industry and self-insureds, funded through assessments to insurance companies and self-insureds based on either premiums or losses.			 
40

Segment income (loss)		Determined in the same manner as core income (loss) on a segment basis. Management uses segment income (loss) to analyze each segment’s performance and as a tool in making business decisions. Financial statement users also consider segment income when analyzing the results and trends of insurance companies.
Self-insured retentions		That portion of the risk retained by an insured for its own account.				Servicing carrier		An insurance company that provides, for a fee, various services including policy issuance, claims adjusting and customer service for insureds in a reinsurance pool.				
Statutory accounting practices (SAP)
The practices and procedures prescribed or permitted by domiciliary state insurance regulatory authorities in the United States for recording transactions and preparing financial statements. SAP generally reflect a modified going concern basis of accounting.				Statutory capital and surplus		The excess of an insurance company’s admitted assets over its liabilities, including loss reserves, as determined in accordance with SAP. Admitted assets are assets of an insurer prescribed or permitted by a state to be recognized on the statutory balance sheet. Statutory capital and surplus is also referred to as “statutory surplus” or “policyholders’ surplus.”				Statutory net income		As determined under SAP, total revenues less total expenses and income taxes.				Structured settlement		Periodic payments to an injured person or survivor for a determined number of years or for life, typically in settlement of a claim under a liability policy, usually funded through the purchase of an annuity.				Subrogation		A principle of law incorporated in insurance policies, which enables an insurance company, after paying a claim under a policy, to recover the amount of the loss from another person or entity who is legally liable for it.				Tenure impact		As new business volume increases and accounts for a greater percentage of earned premiums, the loss and LAE ratio generally worsens initially, as the loss and LAE ratio for new business is generally higher than the ratio for business that has been retained for longer periods. As poorer performing business leaves and pricing segmentation improves on renewal of the business that is retained, the loss and LAE ratio is expected to improve in future years.				Third-party liability		A liability owed to a claimant (third party) who is not one of the two parties to the insurance contract. Insured liability claims are referred to as third-party claims.				Total capitalization		The sum of total shareholders’ equity and debt.				Treaty reinsurance		The reinsurance of a specified type or category of risks defined in a reinsurance agreement (a “treaty”) between a primary insurer or other reinsured and a reinsurer. Typically, in treaty reinsurance, the primary insurer or reinsured is obligated to offer and the reinsurer is obligated to accept a specified portion of all that type or category of risks originally written by the primary insurer or reinsured.				Umbrella coverage		A form of insurance protection against losses in excess of amounts covered by other liability insurance policies or amounts not covered by the usual liability policies.			 
41

Unassigned surplus		The undistributed and unappropriated amount of statutory capital and surplus.				Underlying combined ratio		The underlying combined ratio is the sum of the underlying loss and LAE ratio and the underlying underwriting expense ratio. The underlying combined ratio is an indicator of the Company’s underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.				Underlying loss and LAE ratio		The underlying loss and LAE ratio is the loss and LAE ratio, adjusted to exclude the impact of catastrophes and prior year reserve development. The underlying loss and LAE ratio is an indicator of the Company’s underwriting discipline and underwriting profitability for the current accident year.				
Underlying underwriting expense ratio
The underlying underwriting expense ratio is the underwriting expense ratio adjusted to exclude the impact of catastrophes.				Underlying underwriting margin		Net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses (excluding catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development) and insurance-related expenses. 				Underwriter		An employee of an insurance company who examines, accepts or rejects risks and classifies accepted risks in order to charge an appropriate premium for each accepted risk. The underwriter is expected to select business that will produce an average risk of loss no greater than that anticipated for the class of business.				Underwriting		The insurer’s or reinsurer’s process of reviewing applications for insurance coverage, and the decision as to whether to accept all or part of the coverage and determination of the applicable premiums; also refers to the acceptance of that coverage.				Underwriting expense ratio		
For SAP, the underwriting expense ratio is the ratio of underwriting expenses incurred (including commissions paid), less certain administrative services fee income and billing and policy fees, to net written premiums as defined in the statutory financial statements required by insurance regulators. The underwriting expense ratio as used in this report is the ratio of underwriting expenses (including the amortization of deferred acquisition costs), less certain administrative services fee income, billing and policy fees and other, to net earned premiums.

The underwriting expense ratio is an indicator of the Company’s efficiency in acquiring and servicing its business.			Other companies’ method of computing a similarly titled measure may not be comparable to the Company’s method of computing this ratio.				Underwriting gain or loss		Net earned premiums and fee income less claims and claim adjustment expenses and insurance-related expenses.				Unearned premium		The portion of premiums written that is allocable to the unexpired portion of the policy term.				Voluntary market		The market in which a person seeking insurance obtains coverage without the assistance of residual market mechanisms.				Wholesale broker		An independent or exclusive agent that represents both admitted and non-admitted insurers in market areas, which include standard, non-standard, specialty and excess and surplus lines of insurance. The wholesaler does not deal directly with the insurance consumer. The wholesaler deals with the retail agent or broker. 
