Item 1. BUSINESS
Overview
Twitter is what’s happening in the world and what people are talking about right now.
Our primary product, Twitter, is a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time. Twitter allows people to consume, create, distribute and discover content and has democratized content creation and distribution. Through Topics, Interests, and Trends, we help people discover what’s happening live. We also continue to implement live broadcasts and on-demand video content across Twitter, including through partnerships with media outlets and our platform partners. Media outlets and our platform partners also help extend the reach of Twitter content by distributing Tweets beyond our products to complement their content. People can also express themselves using creation tools like Voice Tweets and Fleets, which allows everyone to start conversations in a new way – with their voice or with their fleeting thoughts using text, reactions to Tweets, photos or videos.
In 2020, we continued our work to serve the public conversation by helping people find trusted sources of information and better organizing and surfacing the many topics and interests that bring people to Twitter. We are making it easier to follow and participate in healthier conversations by rolling out new conversation settings globally, and giving people everywhere more control over the conversations they start on Twitter. In addition, we made significant progress on our brand and direct response roadmap with updated ad formats, stronger attribution, and improved targeting. We also continued to iterate on our revamped Mobile Application Promotion (MAP) offering. We furthered our efforts to improve the health of the platform, as we work to make sure that people and advertisers feel safe being a part of the conversation and are able to find credible information on our service. Major areas of focus within health include reducing abuse, providing more context around misinformation, and protecting the integrity of civic-related conversations.
Products and Services for Advertisers
Our Promoted Products enable our advertisers to launch products and services and promote their brands, amplify their visibility and reach, and connect with what’s happening to extend the conversation around their advertising campaigns. We enable our advertisers to target an audience based on a variety of factors, including who an account follows and actions taken on our platform, such as Tweets created and engagement with Tweets. We believe this data produces a clear and real-time signal of that person's interests, greatly enhancing the relevance of the ads we can display and enhancing our targeting capabilities for advertisers. Our Promoted Products are incorporated into our platform as native advertising and are designed to be as compelling and useful to people on Twitter as organic content on our platform.
Currently, our Promoted Products consist of:
•Promoted Tweets. Promoted Tweets appear within an individual's timeline, search results or profile pages just like an ordinary Tweet regardless of device. Promoted Tweets often include images and videos, such as Mobile App Cards and Website Cards. Using our proprietary algorithm and understanding of each individual’s interests, we can deliver Promoted Tweets that are intended to be relevant to a particular person on Twitter. Our goal is to enable advertisers to create and optimize successful marketing campaigns - and pay either on impressions delivered or only for the actions taken by people on Twitter that are aligned with their marketing objectives. As a result, we have added product features to Promoted Tweets based on advertiser objectives, which may include maximizing reach, Tweet engagements (e.g., Retweets, replies and likes), website clicks or conversions, mobile application installs or engagements, obtaining new followers, or video views.
•Promoted Accounts. Promoted Accounts appear in the same format and place as accounts suggested by our Who to Follow recommendation engine, or in some cases, in Tweets in an individual’s timeline. Promoted Accounts provide a way for our advertisers to grow a community of people on Twitter who are interested in their business, products or services.
•Promoted Trends. Promoted Trends appear at the top of the list of trending topics or timeline for an entire day in a particular country or on a global basis. When a person on Twitter clicks on a Promoted Trend, search results for that trend are shown in a timeline and a Promoted Tweet created by an advertiser is displayed to the individual at the top of those search results. We feature one Promoted Trend per day per geography. We also offer Promoted Trend Spotlight, which enables brands to leverage video paired with a prominent location at the top of the Explore tab.

6
Table of Contents
Advertisers can also run short video ads either before or around premium video content, such as during live premium video content from publishing partners or clips from a variety of interest categories such as news, sports and entertainment. Our technology dynamically inserts those advertisers' ads into the relevant videos and delivers the ads to the audience targeted by those advertisers. We may pay content partners a portion of our advertising revenue for the right to use and distribute their content on our platform. In addition, Amplify Sponsorships allow advertisers to build brand association by sponsoring premium video content from a single publishing partner, including live video, video clips, and other storytelling formats like Sponsored Moments.
We continue to focus our investment on features that differentiate Twitter and capitalize on our value proposition for advertisers. We made progress on our brand and direct response roadmap, with updated ad formats, stronger attribution, and improved targeting. We expect our acquisition of CrossInstall will accelerate key work streams in direct response. CrossInstall brought a performance ads-focused team to Twitter, added a successful and performant demand-side platform (DSP), and should also help us with our strategy to build and improve MAP and performance ad formats. In addition, we expect CrossInstall will help us increase the value MoPub offers to mobile app developers.
Our technology platform and information database enable us to provide targeting capabilities based on audience attributes like geography, interests, keyword, conversation, content, and events that make it possible for advertisers to promote their brands, products and services, amplify their visibility and reach, and complement and extend the conversation around their advertising campaigns.
Our platform also enables customers to advertise across the mobile ecosystem, both on Twitter's owned and operated properties as well as off Twitter on third-party publishers’ websites, applications and other offerings. We enable advertisers to extend their reach beyond Twitter through:
•MoPub, our mobile-focused advertising exchange, which combines ad serving, ad network mediation and a real-time bidding exchange into one comprehensive monetization platform.
•Twitter Audience Platform, an advertising offering that enables advertisers to extend their advertising campaigns with Twitter Promoted Products to audiences off Twitter while retaining access to Twitter's measurement, targeting and creative tools.
Content Partnerships
Video is an important way to stay informed on Twitter, enabling people on Twitter and content owners to better share experiences, engage in events, and converse with broader audiences. We continue to increase reach and engagement for content owners around the world through live-streaming, highlight video clips, and video-on-demand agreements designed to complement the content from people on Twitter and licensed live and on-demand video content already available on Twitter across a number of verticals including sports, news, gaming and entertainment.
Products for Developers and Data Partners
Developer and Enterprise Solutions (DES) is our software-as-a-service platform that enables developers to build products around the aggregated, anonymized wealth of data on Twitter. Developers use Twitter application programming interfaces (APIs) to build applications and other products for themselves, consumers, and business customers. DES serves commercial and non-commercial developers including businesses, academics, and consumer developers, among others. We believe this work has the potential to help us with our efforts to improve the health of the public conversation. Websites and applications integrating with our publicly available APIs improve people’s experience on Twitter by helping brands and publishers engage with what’s happening and gain insights from the public conversation.
We also offer paid enterprise access to our public data streams for partners with commercial use cases and those who wish to access more data beyond what is available for free. Paying DES customers typically sign multi-year subscriptions or enterprise agreements, based on the type and volume of usage. Our enterprise data products and services offer more sophisticated data analysis tools and other services to support developers in building mature businesses on our platform. Our customer-centric approach positions both Twitter and our key partners for greater growth and monetization, and we are investing in deeper partnerships with select solution providers to help businesses and organizations realize greater value from our data and platform. The goal of our platform product is to make it easy for developers to integrate seamlessly with Twitter, while protecting the privacy and safety of the people who use Twitter.

7
Table of Contents
Competition
Our business is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent product innovation and the continuously evolving preferences and expectations of people on Twitter, advertisers, content partners, platform partners and developers. We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, including from companies that provide tools to facilitate communications and the sharing of information, companies that enable marketers to display advertising, and other online ad networks, exchanges and platforms. We also compete to attract, engage, and retain people who use our products, and to attract and retain marketers, content and platform partners, and developers. We have seen escalating competition for digital ad spending and expect this trend to continue. We also compete to attract and retain employees, especially software engineers, designers, and product managers.
We compete with the following companies for people’s attention and for advertisers’ budgets:
•Companies that offer products that enable people to create and share ideas, videos, and other content and information. These offerings include, for example, Facebook (including Instagram and WhatsApp), Alphabet (including Google and YouTube), Microsoft (including LinkedIn), Snapchat, TikTok, and Verizon Media Group, as well as largely regional social media and messaging companies that have strong positions in particular countries (including WeChat, Kakao, and Line). Although we often seek differentiated content from other licensors, we face competition for live premium video content rights from other digital distributors and traditional television providers, which may limit our ability to secure such content on economic and other terms that are acceptable to us in the future.
•Companies that offer advertising inventory and opportunities to advertisers.
•Companies that develop applications, particularly mobile applications, that create, syndicate and distribute content across internet properties.
•Traditional, online, and mobile businesses that enable people to consume content or marketers to reach their audiences and/or develop tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns.
As we introduce new products, as our existing products evolve, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition.
Our industry is evolving rapidly and is highly competitive. See the sections titled “Risk Factors—If we are unable to compete effectively for people to use our platform, and for content and data partners, our business and operating results could be harmed.”, “Risk Factors—If we are unable to compete effectively for advertising spend, our business and operating results could be harmed.” and “Risk Factors—We depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business. If we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively."
Technology, Research and Development
Twitter is composed of a set of core, scalable and distributed services that are built from proprietary and open source technologies. These systems are capable of delivering billions of messages, including images and video, to hundreds of millions of people a day in an efficient and reliable way. We continue to invest in our existing products and services as well as develop new products and services through research and product development. We also continue to invest in protecting the safety, security and integrity of our platform by investing in both people and technology, including machine learning.
Sales and Marketing
We have a global sales force and sales support staff that is focused on attracting and retaining advertisers while certain advertisers use our self-serve advertising platform to launch and manage their advertising campaigns. Our sales force and sales support staff assist advertisers throughout the advertising campaign cycle, from pre-purchase decision making to real-time optimizations as they utilize our campaign management tools, and to post-campaign analytics reports to assess the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns.
We use marketing campaigns to help drive audiences to our platform. In 2020, we continued to deliver marketing campaigns focused on celebrating and highlighting the voices of the people who make Twitter unique. We also continued to highlight our value proposition for advertisers, including how brands turn to Twitter to launch something new, and connect with what’s happening.

8
Table of Contents
Intellectual Property
We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the United States and other countries, as well as contractual restrictions. We generally enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with other third parties, in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our confidential information and proprietary technology. In addition to these contractual arrangements, we also rely on a combination of trademarks, trade dress, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents to help protect our brand and our other intellectual property.
Government Regulation
We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations may involve privacy, data protection, security, rights of publicity, content regulation, data localization, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing, taxation or other subjects. Many laws and regulations impacting our business are being proposed, are still evolving or are being tested in courts and could be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices and in ways that could harm our business. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations often are uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate.
With regard to privacy, data protection and security, we are subject to a variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020, requires covered companies to, among other things, provide new disclosures to California consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. Similar legislation has been proposed or adopted in other states. Additionally, a new California ballot initiative, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), was passed in November 2020. The CPRA creates obligations relating to consumer data beginning on January 1, 2022, with implementing regulations expected on or before July 1, 2022, and enforcement beginning July 1, 2023. Aspects of the CCPA, the CPRA and these other state laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation and enforcement, remain unclear, and we may be required to modify our practices in an effort to comply with them. Foreign data protection, privacy, security, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive or burdensome than those in the United States. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation, or the GDPR, imposes stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concerning content regulation and data protection that could affect us.
In March 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, that, among other things, requires us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. The obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of March 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the U.S. government or the FTC files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. On July 28, 2020, we received a draft complaint from the FTC alleging violation of the order and the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act). The allegations relate to our use of phone number and/or email address data provided for safety and security purposes for targeted advertising during periods between 2013 and 2019. The matter remains unresolved, and there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of any final outcome. Violation of other existing or future regulatory orders, settlements, or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.
People may be restricted from accessing Twitter from certain countries, and other countries have intermittently restricted access to Twitter. For example, Twitter is not directly accessible in China and has been blocked in the past in Turkey and certain of our SMS messages have been blocked in Saudi Arabia. It is possible that other governments may seek to restrict access to or block our website or mobile applications, censor content available through our products or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility or usability of Twitter for an extended period of time or indefinitely, including because of our decisions with respect to the enforcement of our rules. For instance, some countries have enacted laws that allow websites to be blocked for hosting certain types of content.
For additional information, see the section titled “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in mDAU growth, mDAU engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business.”
Seasonality
Advertising spending is traditionally strongest in the fourth quarter of each year. Historically, this seasonality in advertising spending has affected our quarterly results, with higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third quarter to the fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter.
9
Table of Contents
Human Capital
We believe the strength of our workforce is critical to our success as we strive to become a more inclusive and diverse technology company. Our key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain, and develop the talent we need to deliver on our commitment to serve the public conversation in a safe and responsible way by offering exceptional products and services. Examples of our key programs and initiatives that are focused to achieve these objectives include:
Inclusion and Diversity (I&D). People come to Twitter to freely express themselves. Just as inclusion lives on our platform, we are working to ensure our workplace reflects our service. In 2020, we introduced our vision for our workforce representation: an objective that by 2025, we aspire to have at least half of our global workforce represented by women and at least a quarter of our U.S. workforce represented by under-represented communities. We accompanied our vision with a strategy to help drive progress, including:
•A company-wide three-year objective focused on diversity and decentralization;
•Clearly-defined targets for workforce representation and inclusion metrics across every executive leader;
•An internal dashboard accessible to all employees to track progress against our objective;
•An expanded team of Inclusion & Diversity leaders across our business;
•Refreshing our hiring practices to require diverse slates for all open roles and put inclusive hiring principles at the forefront;
•A Consistency & Fairness Taskforce to review our employee promotions process;
•Investing in our employee Business Resource Group leaders, who foster a culture of inclusivity and belonging within our company, including introducing a new formal compensation program.
We have made significant progress towards our inclusion and diversity objectives through leadership, transparency and accountability.
Flexibility and Decentralization. In 2018, before the COVID-19 pandemic drove a shift to remote work, we recognized the need to evolve our workforce to achieve our purpose. We designed a workplace strategy to provide more flexible work options and to build more distributed teams who work effectively without the need to be co-located. As a result, we had a head start on building capabilities that allowed us to quickly pivot to a fully remote workforce following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. In addition, we recently announced that most employees will be able to work from home permanently if they so desire.
Pay. Our primary compensation strategy is to promote a pay-for-performance culture. Our guiding principles are anchored on the goals of being able to attract, incentivize, and retain talented employees who can develop, implement, and deliver on long-term value creation strategies; promote a healthy approach to risk by reinforcing our values which serve to motivate our employees; and provide competitive compensation that is aligned with the market and fair relative to our peers. We are committed to both pay equity and transparency.
Health and Wellness. Beyond the fundamental needs of health, welfare and retirement programs, we are focused on the specific needs of our individual employees. In 2020, our employees adapted to an unprecedented amount of change and uncertainty driven by the COVID-19 pandemic, including an abrupt shift to working from home, rescheduled work priorities, and closure of schools and daycare facilities for families. We were one of the first U.S. companies to send our employees home in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and we continued to provide resources and ongoing support to employees facing these challenges throughout the year, such as a wellness reimbursement, home office setup allowance, expanded health coverage, and flexible work schedules.
As of December 31, 2020, we employed over 5,500 full-time employees.
Corporate Information
We were incorporated in Delaware in April 2007. Our principal executive offices are located at 1355 Market Street, Suite 900, San Francisco, California 94103, and our telephone number is (415) 222-9670. We completed our initial public offering in November 2013 and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “TWTR.” Unless the context requires otherwise, the words “Twitter,” “we,” “Company,” “us” and “our” refer to Twitter, Inc. and our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
10
Table of Contents
Available Information
Our website is located at https://www.twitter.com, and our investor relations website is located at https://investor.twitterinc.com. Copies of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains our SEC filings. The address of the SEC website is https://www.sec.gov.
We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs as part of our investor relations website. We have used, and intend to continue to use, our investor relations website, as well as certain Twitter accounts (@jack, @nedsegal, @twitter and @twitterIR), as means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Further corporate governance information, including our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, corporate governance guidelines, board committee charters, and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading “Corporate governance.” The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only.
