PART I
Item 1. Business
Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative products and services around the world. References to “Textron Inc.,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” and “us” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated, refer to Textron Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.
We conduct our business through five operating segments: Textron Aviation, Bell, Textron Systems and Industrial, which represent our manufacturing businesses, and Finance, which represents our captive finance business. Our segments include operations that are unincorporated divisions of Textron Inc. and others that are separately incorporated subsidiaries. Total revenues by segment and customer type for 2020 are presented below.
txt-20210102_g1.jpgtxt-20210102_g2.jpg
The following description of our business and operating segments should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
Textron Aviation Segment
Textron Aviation is a leader in general aviation. Textron Aviation manufactures, sells and services Beechcraft and Cessna aircraft, and services the Hawker brand of business jets. The segment has two principal product lines: aircraft and aftermarket parts and services. Aircraft includes sales of business jets, turboprop aircraft, military trainer and defense aircraft and piston engine aircraft. Aftermarket parts and services includes commercial parts sales, and maintenance, inspection and repair services. Textron Aviation markets its products worldwide through its own sales force, as well as through a network of authorized independent sales representatives.
The family of jets currently offered by Textron Aviation includes the Citation M2, Citation CJ3+, Citation CJ4, Citation XLS+, Citation Latitude and the Citation Longitude. Textron Aviation’s turboprop aircraft include the Beechcraft King Air 260, King Air 360ER and King Air 360, and the Cessna Caravan and Grand Caravan EX. In addition, Textron Aviation’s military trainer and defense aircraft include the T-6 trainer, which has been used to train pilots from more than 20 countries, and the AT-6 light attack military aircraft. Textron Aviation also offers piston engine aircraft including the Beechcraft Baron and Bonanza, and the Cessna Skyhawk, Skylane, and the Turbo Stationair HD.
In support of its family of aircraft, Textron Aviation operates a global network of 20 service centers, two of which are co-located with Bell, along with more than 300 authorized independent service centers located throughout the world. Textron Aviation-owned service centers provide customers with 24-hour service and maintenance. Textron Aviation also provides its customers with around-the-clock parts support and offers a mobile support program with approximately 70 mobile service units. In addition, Able Aerospace Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Textron Aviation, provides component and maintenance, repair and overhaul services in support of commercial and military fixed- and rotor-wing aircraft.
Product Development Programs
Textron Aviation is developing the Cessna Skycourier, a twin-engine, high-wing, large-utility turboprop aircraft, which achieved its first flight in May 2020. The Denali, a high-performance single engine turboprop aircraft under development, is expected to achieve its first flight in 2021.


3

Table of Contents
Bell Segment
Bell is one of the leading suppliers of military and commercial helicopters, tiltrotor aircraft, and related spare parts and services in the world.
Bell supplies advanced military helicopters and provides parts and support services to the U.S. Government and to military customers outside the United States. Bell’s primary U.S. Government programs are for the production and support of the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft and the H-1 helicopters. Bell is one of the leading suppliers of helicopters to the U.S. Government and, in association with The Boeing Company (Boeing), the only supplier of military tiltrotor aircraft. Tiltrotor aircraft are designed to provide the benefits of both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Through its strategic alliance with Boeing, Bell produces and supports the V-22 tiltrotor aircraft primarily for the U.S. Department of Defense, and also offers this aircraft to other countries under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program. The H-1 helicopter program includes a utility model, the UH-1Y, and an advanced attack model, the AH-1Z, which have 84% parts commonality between them. While the U.S. Marine Corps is the primary customer for H-1 helicopters, we also sell these helicopters under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program.
Through its commercial business, Bell is a leading supplier of commercially certified helicopters and support to corporate, private, law enforcement, utility and emergency medical helicopter operators, and the U.S. and foreign governments. Bell produces a variety of commercial aircraft types, including light single- and twin-engine helicopters and medium twin-engine helicopters, along with other related products. The commercial helicopters currently offered by Bell include the 429, 407GXi, 412EPX, 412EPI, 412EP, 505 Jet Ranger X and Huey II.
For both its military programs and its commercial products, Bell provides post-sale support and service for an installed base of approximately 13,000 helicopters through a network of six Company-operated service centers, four global parts distribution centers and nearly 100 independent service centers located in over 35 countries. Collectively, these service sites offer a complete range of logistics support, including parts, support equipment, technical data, training devices, pilot and maintenance training, component repair and overhaul, engine repair and overhaul, aircraft modifications, aircraft customizing, accessory manufacturing, contractor maintenance, field service and product support engineering.
Product Development Programs
In October 2019, Bell announced a new rotorcraft, the Bell 360 Invictus, which it is developing as its entrant for the U.S. Army's Future Attack Reconnaissance Aircraft (FARA) Competitive Prototype Program, part of the U.S. government's Future Vertical Lift (FVL) family of programs. The FARA program was initiated by the U.S. Army to develop a successor to the retired Bell OH-58D Kiowa Warrior helicopter. In March 2020, the U.S. Army selected the 360 Invictus to move to the second phase of the Competitive Prototype Program.
Bell continues its development and refinement of the V-280 Valor, a next generation vertical lift aircraft as part of the Joint Multi Role Technology Demonstrator (JMR-TD) initiative. The JMR-TD program is the science and technology precursor to the FVL program. The V-280 achieved its first flight in December 2017 and its first cruise mode flight in May 2018. In March 2020, the U.S. Army awarded Bell a Competitive Demonstration and Risk Reduction contract for the next stage of its Future Long Range Assault Aircraft program.
Bell’s first super medium commercial helicopter, the 525 Relentless, is currently in the certification process with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
Textron Systems Segment
Textron Systems is a supplier to the defense, aerospace and general aviation markets. This segment sells products to U.S. Government customers and to customers outside the U.S. through foreign military sales sponsored by the U.S. Government and directly through commercial sales channels. Textron Systems’ operating units are reported under the following product lines: Unmanned Systems, Marine and Land Systems and Simulation, Training and Other.
Our Unmanned Systems product line includes unmanned aircraft systems, unmanned surface systems, mission command hardware and solutions, and worldwide customer support and logistics. Unmanned aircraft systems includes the Shadow, the U.S. Army’s premier tactical unmanned aircraft system, which has surpassed one million flight hours since its introduction, and the Aerosonde Small Unmanned Aircraft System, a multi-mission capable unmanned aircraft system that has amassed more than 500,000 flight hours in commercial and military operations around the world. Unmanned Systems also provides complete systems solutions to its government and commercial customers through comprehensive program management, operational and maintenance training, technical assistance and logistics support, and end-to-end turnkey mission support.

4

Table of Contents
Our Marine and Land Systems product line includes advanced marine craft, armored vehicles and specialty vehicles supporting fire and rescue applications. These products are in service with U.S. and international militaries, special operations forces, police forces and civilian entities. Marine and Land Systems’ primary U.S. Government program is for the development and production of the U.S. Navy’s next generation Landing Craft Air Cushion as part of the Ship-to-Shore Connector program.
The Simulation, Training and Other product line includes the following operating units and businesses: Electronic Systems, Weapons and Sensors Systems, Lycoming, Airborne Tactical Advantage Company (ATAC) and TRU Simulation + Training (TRU). Electronic Systems provides high technology test equipment, electronic warfare test and training solutions and intelligence software solutions for U.S. and international defense, intelligence and law enforcement communities. Weapons and Sensors Systems offers advanced precision guided weapons systems, airborne and ground-based sensors and surveillance systems, and protection systems for the defense and aerospace industries. Lycoming specializes in the engineering, manufacture, service and support of piston aircraft engines for the general aviation and remotely piloted aircraft markets. ATAC focuses on live military air-to-air and air-to-ship training and support services for U.S. Navy, Marine and Air Force personnel. TRU designs, develops, manufactures, installs, and provides maintenance of advanced flight training devices, including full flight simulators, for commercial airlines, aircraft original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), flight training centers and training organizations. On January 25, 2021, we sold TRU Simulation + Training Canada Inc., which manufactured and maintained flight simulators for commercial airlines.
Industrial Segment
Our Industrial segment designs and manufactures a variety of products within the Fuel Systems and Functional Components and Specialized Vehicles product lines.
Our Fuel Systems and Functional Components product line is produced by our Kautex business unit which is headquartered in Bonn, Germany. Kautex is a leader in designing and manufacturing plastic fuel systems for automobiles and light trucks, including blow-molded solutions for conventional plastic fuel tanks and pressurized plastic fuel tanks for hybrid vehicle applications.  Kautex also develops and manufactures clear-vision systems for automotive safety and advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS).  Our cleaning systems are comprised of nozzles, reservoirs, inlets and pumps to support onboard cleaning for windscreens, headlamps and ADAS cameras and sensors. In addition, Kautex produces plastic tanks for selective catalytic reduction systems used to reduce emissions from diesel engines and other fuel system components.  
Kautex’s business model is focused on developing and maintaining long-term customer relationships with leading global OEMs. Kautex operates over 30 plants in 14 countries in close proximity to our customers, along with 10 engineering/research and development locations around the world.
Our Specialized Vehicles product line includes products sold by the Textron Specialized Vehicles businesses under our E-Z-GO, Arctic Cat, TUG Technologies, Douglas Equipment, Premier, Safeaero, Ransomes, Jacobsen and Cushman brands. These businesses design, manufacture and sell golf cars, off-road utility vehicles, recreational side-by-side and all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, light transportation vehicles, aviation ground support equipment and professional turf-maintenance equipment, as well as specialized turf-care vehicles. Their diversified customer base includes golf courses and resorts, government agencies and municipalities, consumers, outdoor enthusiasts, and commercial and industrial users such as factories, warehouses, airlines, planned communities, hunting preserves, educational and corporate campuses, sporting venues, municipalities and landscaping professionals. Sales are made through a combination of a network of independent distributors and dealers worldwide, the Bass Pro Shops and Cabela’s retail outlets, which sell our products under the Tracker Off-Road brand, and factory direct resources.
Finance Segment
Our Finance segment, or the Finance group, is a commercial finance business that consists of Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Finance segment provides financing primarily to purchasers of new and pre-owned Textron Aviation aircraft and Bell helicopters. A substantial number of the originations in our finance receivable portfolio are cross-border transactions for aircraft sold outside of the U.S.  In 2020 and 2019, our Finance group paid our Manufacturing group $195 million and $184 million, respectively, related to the sale of Textron-manufactured products to third parties that were financed by the Finance group.  
Our Finance segment’s largest business risk is the collectability of its finance receivable portfolio.  See Finance Segment section in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for information about the Finance segment’s credit performance.



5

Table of Contents
Backlog
Backlog represents amounts allocated to contracts that we expect to recognize as revenue in future periods when we perform under the contracts. Backlog excludes unexercised contract options and potential orders under ordering-type contracts, such as Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contracts.
Our backlog at the end of 2020 and 2019 is summarized below:
(In millions)	January 2,
2021	January 4,
2020	Bell	$	5,342 		$	6,902 		Textron Aviation	1,603 		1,714 		Textron Systems	2,556 		1,211 		Total backlog	$	9,501 		$	9,827 	 
U.S. Government Contracts and Other Governmental Regulation
Our operations, products and services are subject to various government regulations, including regulations related to U.S. government business, international regulation of aviation products and services, and environmental regulations.
Contracts with the U.S. Government, including contracts under the U.S. Government-sponsored foreign military sales program, generated approximately 30% of our consolidated revenues in 2020, primarily in our Bell and Textron Systems segments. We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. Government contracts. These laws and regulations, among other things, require certification and disclosure of all cost and pricing data in connection with contract negotiation; define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based U.S. Government contracts; and safeguard and restrict the use and dissemination of classified and covered defense information and the exportation of certain products and technical data. New laws, regulations or procurement requirements, or changes to current ones, can significantly increase our costs, reducing our profitability.
Our contracts with the U.S. Government generally may be terminated by the U.S. Government for convenience or if we default in whole or in part by failing to perform under the terms of the applicable contract. If the U.S. Government terminates a contract for convenience, we normally will be entitled to payment for the cost of contract work performed before the effective date of termination, including, if applicable, reasonable profit on such work, as well as reasonable termination costs. If, however, the U.S. Government terminates a contract for default, generally: (a) we will be paid the contract price for completed supplies delivered and accepted and services rendered, an agreed-upon amount for manufacturing materials delivered and accepted and for the protection and preservation of property, and an amount for partially completed products accepted by the U.S. Government; (b) the U.S. Government may not be liable for our costs with respect to unaccepted items and may be entitled to repayment of advance payments and progress payments related to the terminated portions of the contract; (c) the U.S. Government may not be liable for assets we own and utilize to provide services under the “fee-for-service” contracts; and (d) we may be liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. Government in procuring undelivered items from another source. See Aerospace and Defense Industry section in Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information related to regulation of U.S. Government business herein.
Commercial aircraft products manufactured by our Textron Aviation and Bell segments are required to comply with FAA regulations in the U.S. and the regulations of other similar aviation regulatory governing authorities internationally, including, the European Aviation Safety Agency. Maintenance facilities and aftermarket services must also comply with FAA and international regulations. These regulations address production and quality systems, airworthiness and installation approvals, repair procedures and continuing operational safety. For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority, and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Aircraft outfitting and completions also require approval by the appropriate aviation authority. See Strategic Risks section in Item 1A. Risk Factors for additional information with respect to risks related to obtaining certification of new aircraft products.
Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the environment. For additional information regarding environmental matters, see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, and Business and Operational Risks and Risks Related to Regulatory and Legal Matters sections in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
Based on current information and the applicable laws and regulations currently in effect, compliance with government regulations, including environmental regulations, has not had, and we do not expect it to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, laws and regulations may be changed or adopted that impose additional compliance requirements which could necessitate capital expenditures or otherwise increase our costs of doing business, reducing our profitability and negatively impacting our operating results.
6

Table of Contents
Human Capital Resources
At January 2, 2021, we employed approximately 33,000 employees worldwide, with approximately 75% located in the U.S. and the remainder located outside of the U.S. Approximately 6,800, or 28%, of our U.S. employees, most of whom work for our Bell and Textron Aviation segments, are represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements, and certain of our non-U.S. employees are represented by organized works councils. From time to time our collective bargaining agreements expire and come up for renegotiation.
Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to maintain a workforce with the skills necessary for our businesses to succeed. We need highly skilled personnel in multiple areas including, among others, engineering, manufacturing, information technology, cybersecurity, flight operations, business development and strategy and management. In order to attract and retain highly skilled employees, we are committed to ensuring a safe and healthy work environment, offering comprehensive compensation and benefit programs, creating great career opportunities and building an engaging, inclusive environment where all employees are treated with dignity and respect.
Health and Safety
To maintain and enhance the safety of our employees, we promote a culture of continuous improvement and individual accountability to provide safe workplaces. We use an annual goal setting process to drive injury rate improvements, and the injury rate reduction goal is a performance metric that is reported to Textron’s Audit Committee and is tracked and reported to senior leadership.
The safety of our employees has been a priority throughout our response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Our enterprise-wide pandemic response teams, formed early in the pandemic, guided our operations in the processes and procedures to comply with applicable government-imposed health and safety-related operating restrictions, to enhance the safety of our facilities to protect the health of our employees and to monitor trends in infection rates at locations where we have facilities. These teams continue to operate, updating enterprise guidance as the pandemic has continued and the medical science and government guidance and orders have evolved. Our businesses continue to enforce COVID-19 health and safety protocols and have implemented protocols to address actual and suspected cases of COVID-19 and resulting contact tracing and quarantine requirements. Throughout the pandemic, we have been communicating regularly with our employees and monitoring their views on issues related to COVID-19 and the workplace as well as general levels of engagement through regular pulse surveys. In addition, management has regularly updated our Board of Directors on our COVID-19 status and response, including with respect to employee safety.
Talent and Career Development
Our talent development programs are designed to prepare our employees at all levels to take on new career and growth opportunities at Textron. Leadership, professional and functional training courses are tailored for employees at each stage of their careers and include a mix of enterprise-wide and business unit-specific programs. Textron University, an internal corporate function, provides (i) facilitated face-to-face professional and leadership development, (ii) web-based general and specialized functional and technical courses and (iii) an online portal to access advanced skills technical training, manage recertification of existing qualifications and other career planning tools and resources.
The current and future talent needs of each of our businesses are assessed annually through a formal talent review process which enables us to develop leadership succession plans and provide our employees with potential new career opportunities. In addition, leaders from functional areas within each business belong to enterprise-wide councils which conduct annual talent reviews. These processes enable us to fill talent needs by matching employees who are ready to assume significant leadership roles with opportunities that best fit their career path, which may be in other businesses within the enterprise.
Diversity and Inclusion
Textron is committed to having a diverse workforce and inclusive workplaces throughout our global operations. We believe by employing highly talented, diverse employees, who feel valued, respected and are able to contribute fully, we will improve performance, innovation and collaboration and drive talent retention, all of which contribute to stronger business results and reinforce our reputation as leaders in our industries and communities.
For over a decade, Textron has allocated five percent of annual incentive compensation for management-level employees toward achievement of diversity goals. Beginning in 2020, we focused these goals specifically on hiring diversity. To improve our outreach to diverse candidates, we have increased our recruiting efforts at historically black colleges and universities, enhanced our partnerships with diverse professional organizations and participated in diverse STEM conferences. In addition, we provide inclusion and unconscious bias training to our employees and recruiters to improve diversity in recruiting.
For discussion of certain risks relating to human capital management, see Risks Related to Human Capital section in Item 1A. Risk Factors.
7

Table of Contents
Patents and Trademarks
We own, or are licensed under, numerous patents throughout the world relating to products, services and methods of manufacturing. Patents developed while under contract with the U.S. Government may be subject to use by the U.S. Government. We also own or license active trademark registrations and pending trademark applications in the U.S. and in various foreign countries or regions, as well as trade names and service marks. While our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not believe that any existing patent, license, trademark or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole.
Information about our Executive Officers
The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 19, 2021.
Name	Age	Current Position with Textron Inc.	Scott C. Donnelly	59	Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer	Frank T. Connor	61	Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	Julie G. Duffy	55	Executive Vice President, Human Resources	E. Robert Lupone	61	Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer 
Mr. Donnelly joined Textron in June 2008 as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer in January 2009. He was appointed to the Board of Directors in October 2009 and became Chief Executive Officer of Textron in December 2009. In July 2010, Mr. Donnelly was appointed Chairman of the Board of Directors effective September 1, 2010. Previously, Mr. Donnelly was the President and CEO of General Electric Company’s Aviation business unit, a position he had held since July 2005. GE’s Aviation business unit is a leading maker of commercial and military jet engines and components, as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly served as Senior Vice President of GE Global Research, one of the world’s largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany and held various other management positions since joining General Electric in 1989.
Mr. Connor joined Textron in August 2009 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Previously, Mr. Connor was head of Telecom Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 1998 to 2003. Mr. Connor joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1986 and became a Vice President in 1990 and a Managing Director in 1996.
Ms. Duffy was named Executive Vice President, Human Resources in July 2017. Ms. Duffy joined Textron in 1997 as a member of the corporate legal team and has since held positions of increasing responsibility within the Company’s legal function, previously serving as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel-Litigation, a position she had held since 2011. In that role she was responsible for managing the corporate litigation staff with primary oversight of litigation throughout Textron. She has also played an active role in developing, implementing and standardizing human resources policies across the Company and served as the senior legal advisor on employment and benefits issues.
Mr. Lupone joined Textron in February 2012 as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer. Previously, he was senior vice president and general counsel of Siemens Corporation (U.S.) since 1999 and general counsel of Siemens AG for the Americas since 2008. Prior to joining Siemens in 1992, Mr. Lupone was vice president and general counsel of Price Communications Corporation.
Available Information
We make available free of charge on our Internet Web site (www.textron.com) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.








8

Table of Contents
Forward-Looking Information
Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate,” “guidance,” “project,” “target,” “potential,” “will,” “should,” “could,” “likely” or “may” and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described herein under “Risk Factors,” among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following:
•Interruptions in the U.S. Government’s ability to fund its activities and/or pay its obligations;
•Changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to military operations in foreign countries;
•Our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government;
•The U.S. Government’s ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Government’s convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, or, under certain circumstances, to withhold payment or suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards;
•Changes in foreign military funding priorities or budget constraints and determinations, or changes in government regulations or policies on the export and import of military and commercial products;
•Volatility in the global economy or changes in worldwide political conditions that adversely impact demand for our products;
•Volatility in interest rates or foreign exchange rates;
•Risks related to our international business, including establishing and maintaining facilities in locations around the world and relying on joint venture partners, subcontractors, suppliers, representatives, consultants and other business partners in connection with international business, including in emerging market countries;
•Our Finance segment’s ability to maintain portfolio credit quality or to realize full value of receivables;
•Performance issues with key suppliers or subcontractors;
•Legislative or regulatory actions, both domestic and foreign, impacting our operations or demand for our products;
•Our ability to control costs and successfully implement various cost-reduction activities;
•The efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products or unanticipated expenses in connection with the launching of significant new products or programs;
•The timing of our new product launches or certifications of our new aircraft products;
•Our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the introduction of new products and upgrades with features and technologies desired by our customers;
•Pension plan assumptions and future contributions;
•Demand softness or volatility in the markets in which we do business;
•Cybersecurity threats, including the potential misappropriation of assets or sensitive information, corruption of data or operational disruption;
•Difficulty or unanticipated expenses in connection with integrating acquired businesses;
•The risk that acquisitions do not perform as planned, including, for example, the risk that acquired businesses will not achieve revenues and profit projections;
•The impact of changes in tax legislation; and
•Risks and uncertainties related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and operations.