ITEM 1.	BUSINESS 

General
Our principal business activities are the development, marketing and distribution of branded performance apparel, footwear and accessories for men, women and youth. The brand’s performance apparel and footwear are engineered in many designs and styles for wear in nearly every climate to provide a performance alternative to traditional products. Our products are sold worldwide and are worn by athletes at all levels, from youth to professional, on playing fields around the globe, as well as by consumers with active lifestyles.
We generate net revenues from the sale of our products globally to national, regional, independent and specialty wholesalers and distributors. We also generate net revenue from the sale of our products through our direct-to-consumer sales channel, which includes our brand and factory house stores and e-commerce websites. In addition, we generate net revenues through product licensing as well as digital fitness subscriptions and digital advertising on our Connected Fitness applications. A majority of our products are sold in North America; however we believe that our products appeal to athletes and consumers with active lifestyles around the globe.
We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term through increased sales of our apparel, footwear and accessories, expansion of our wholesale distribution, growth in our direct-to-consumer sales channel and expansion in international markets. Our digital strategy is focused on supporting these long term objectives, emphasizing the connection and engagement with our consumers through multiple digital touch points.
We were incorporated as a Maryland corporation in 1996. We have registered trademarks around the globe, including UNDER ARMOUR®, HEATGEAR®, COLDGEAR®, UA HOVR™ and the Under Armour UA Logo, and we have applied to register many other trademarks. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains additional trademarks and tradenames of our Company and our subsidiaries. All trademarks and tradenames appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are the property of their respective holders.

Products
Our product offerings consist of apparel, footwear and accessories for men, women and youth. We market our products at multiple price levels and provide consumers with products that we believe are a superior alternative to traditional athletic products. In Fiscal 2020, sales of apparel, footwear and accessories represented 64%, 21% and 9% of net revenues, respectively. Licensing arrangements and revenue from our Connected Fitness business represented the remaining 6% of net revenues. In December 2020, we completed the sale of our MyFitnessPal platform, which represented the largest business within our Connected Fitness segment, as well as discontinued our Endomondo platform. We continue to offer digital fitness subscriptions through our MapMyFitness platform, which includes MapMyRun and MapMyRide. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net revenues by product.
Apparel
Our apparel is offered in a variety of styles and fits intended to enhance comfort and mobility, regulate body temperature and improve performance regardless of weather conditions. Our apparel is engineered to replace traditional non-performance fabrics in the world of athletics and fitness with performance alternatives designed and merchandised with a variety of innovative techniques and product styles. Our highly technical products extend primarily across the sporting goods, outdoor and active use markets. We market our apparel for consumers to provide a benefit you never knew you needed, but can't imagine living without, including HEATGEAR® to wear
2

when it is hot, COLDGEAR® to wear when it is cold, or our RUSH™ or RECOVER™ designed to increase blood flow. Our apparel comes in three primary fit types: compression (tight fit), fitted (athletic fit) and loose (relaxed).
HEATGEAR® is designed to be worn in warm to hot temperatures under equipment or as a single layer. While a sweat-soaked traditional non-performance T-shirt can weigh two to three pounds, HEATGEAR® is engineered with a microfiber blend designed to wick moisture from the body which helps the body stay cool, dry and light. We offer HEATGEAR® in a variety of tops and bottoms in a broad array of colors and styles for wear in the gym or outside in warm weather.
COLDGEAR® is designed to wick moisture from the body while circulating body heat from hot spots to help maintain core body temperature. Our COLDGEAR® apparel provides both dryness and warmth in a single light layer that can be worn beneath a jersey, uniform, protective gear or ski-vest, and our COLDGEAR® outerwear products protect the athlete, as well as the coach and the fan from the outside in. Our COLDGEAR® products generally sell at higher prices than our other product styles.
Footwear
Footwear primarily includes products for running, basketball, cleated sports, slides, training, and outdoor. Our footwear is light, breathable and built with performance attributes for athletes. Our footwear is designed with under-foot cushioning technologies including UA HOVR™, UA Micro G®, UA Flow™, and Charged Cushioning®, engineered to a specific sport with advanced outsole construction.
Accessories
Accessories primarily includes the sale of athletic performance gloves, bags, headwear and sports masks. Our accessories include HEATGEAR® and COLDGEAR® technologies and are designed with advanced fabrications to provide the same level of performance as our other products.

Connected Fitness
We offer digital fitness subscriptions, along with digital advertising through our MapMyFitness platform, and until December 2020 through our MyFitnessPal and Endomondo platforms. As noted above, in December 2020 we sold our MyFitnessPal platform and discontinued our Endomondo platform. Our MapMyFitness platform includes applications, such as MapMyRun and MapMyRide.
License
We have agreements with licensees to develop certain Under Armour apparel, accessories and equipment. In order to maintain consistent quality and performance, our product, marketing, sales and quality assurance teams are involved in substantially all steps of the design and go to market process in order to maintain brand and compliance standards and consistency. During 2020, our licensees offered collegiate apparel and accessories, baby and youth apparel, team uniforms, socks, water bottles, eyewear and other specific hard goods equipment that feature performance advantages and functionality similar to our other product offerings.

Marketing and Promotion
We currently focus on marketing our products to consumers primarily for use in athletics, fitness, and training activities, with an emphasis on connecting with our target consumer - the focused performer. We seek to drive consumer demand by building brand awareness that our products deliver advantages to help athletes perform better.
Sports Marketing
Our marketing and promotion strategy begins with providing and selling our products to high-performing athletes and teams at the high school, collegiate and professional levels. We execute this strategy through outfitting agreements, professional, club, and collegiate sponsorship, individual athlete and influencer agreements and by providing and selling our products directly to teams and to individual athletes. We also seek to sponsor and host consumer events to drive awareness and brand authenticity from a grassroots level by hosting combines, camps and clinics for young athletes in many sports. As a result, our products are seen on the field and on the court, and by various consumer audiences through the internet, television, magazines and live at sporting events. This exposure to consumers helps us establish on-field authenticity as consumers can see our products being worn by high-performing athletes.
We are the official outfitter of athletic teams in several high-profile collegiate conferences as well as multiple
professional sport organizations supporting the athletes on and off the field. We sponsor and sell our products to international sports teams, which helps to drive brand awareness in various countries and regions around the world.
3

Media
We feature our products in a variety of national digital, broadcast, and print media outlets. We also utilize social and mobile media to engage consumers and promote connectivity with our brand and our products while engaging with our consumer throughout their performance journey. For example, in the first quarter of Fiscal 2020 we launched a new brand campaign, “The Only Way Is Through”, which was introduced during a Performance Summit with over 180 social media influencers and was re-activated through brand authentic moments across the calendar year. Additionally, during the initial wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, we transitioned our campaign from “The Only Way is Through” to "Through This Together" that provided consumers with at home workout solutions across various digital platforms.
Retail Presentation
The primary goal of our retail marketing strategy is to increase brand floor space dedicated to our products within our major retail accounts. The design and funding of Under Armour point of sale displays and concept shops within our major retail accounts has been a key initiative for securing prime floor space, educating the consumer and creating an exciting environment for the consumer to experience our brand. Under Armour point of sale displays and concept shops enhance our brand’s presentation within our major retail accounts with a shop-in-shop approach, using dedicated floor space exclusively for our products, including flooring, lighting, walls, displays and images.

Sales and Distribution
The majority of our sales are generated through wholesale channels, which include national and regional sporting goods chains, independent and specialty retailers, department store chains, mono-branded Under Armour retail stores in certain international markets, institutional athletic departments and leagues and teams. In various countries where we do not have direct sales operations, we sell our products to independent distributors or we engage licensees to sell our products.
We also sell our products directly to consumers through our own network of brand and factory house stores and through e-commerce websites globally. Factory house store products are specifically designed for sale in our factory house stores and serve an important role in our overall inventory management by allowing us to sell a portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products, while maintaining the pricing integrity of our brand in our other distribution channels. Through our brand house stores, consumers experience the premium full expression of our brand while having broader access to our performance products. In Fiscal 2020, sales through our wholesale, direct-to-consumer, licensing and Connected Fitness channels represented 53%, 41%, 2% and 3% of net revenues, respectively.
We believe the trend toward performance products is global and plan to continue to introduce our products and simple merchandising story to athletes throughout the world. We plan to continue to grow our business over the long term in part through continued expansion in new and established international markets. We are introducing our performance products and services outside of North America in a manner consistent with our past brand-building strategy, thereby providing us with product exposure to broad audiences of potential consumers.
Our primary business operates in four geographic segments: (1) North America, comprising the United States and Canada, (2) Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), (3) Asia-Pacific, and (4) Latin America. Each of these geographic segments operate predominantly in one industry: the development, marketing and distribution of branded performance apparel, footwear and accessories. We also operate our Connected Fitness business as a separate segment. Effective January 1, 2021, following the sale of MyFitnessPal and the winding down of the Endomondo platform in December 2020, revenues for the remaining MapMyFitness business will be included in Corporate Other, and Connected Fitness will no longer be a separate reportable segment. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net revenues by segment.
Corporate Other consists largely of general and administrative expenses not allocated to an operating segment, including expenses associated with centrally managed departments such as global marketing, global IT, global supply chain, innovation and other corporate support functions; costs related to our global assets and global marketing, costs related to our headquarters; restructuring and restructuring related charges; and certain foreign currency hedge gains and losses.
Our North America segment accounted for approximately 66% of our net revenues for Fiscal 2020. Approximately 31% of our net revenues were generated from our international segments in Fiscal 2020. Approximately 3% of our net revenues were generated from our Connected Fitness segment in Fiscal 2020. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues in Fiscal 2020. Refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for net revenues by segment.
4

North America
We sell our apparel, footwear and accessories in North America through our wholesale and direct-to-consumer channels. Net revenues generated from the sales of our products in the United States were $2.7 billion and $3.4 billion for Fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Our direct-to-consumer sales are generated through our brand and factory house stores and e-commerce website. As of December 31, 2020, we had 176 factory house stores in North America primarily located in outlet centers throughout the United States and Canada. As of December 31, 2020, we had 18 brand house stores in North America throughout the United States and Canada. Consumers can purchase our products directly from our e-commerce website, www.underarmour.com.
In addition, we earn licensing revenue in North America based on our licensees’ sale of collegiate apparel and accessories, as well as sales of other licensed products.
We distribute the majority of our products sold to our North American wholesale customers and our own retail stores and e-commerce businesses from distribution facilities we lease and operate in California, Maryland and Tennessee. In addition, we distribute our products in North America through third-party logistics providers with primary locations in Canada, New Jersey and Florida. In some instances, we arrange to have products shipped from the factories that manufacture our products directly to customer-designated facilities.
EMEA
We sell our apparel, footwear and accessories primarily through wholesale customers, independent distributors, e-commerce websites, and brand and factory house stores within Europe. We also sell our branded products to various sports clubs and teams in Europe. We generally distribute our products to our retail customers and e-commerce consumers in Europe through a third-party logistics provider in the Netherlands as well as a bonded warehouse in the United Kingdom. We sell our apparel, footwear and accessories through independent distributors in the Middle East, Africa and Russia.
Asia-Pacific
We sell our apparel, footwear and accessories products in China, South Korea, Australia and India through stores operated by our distribution and wholesale partners, along with e-commerce websites and brand and factory house stores we operate. In March 2020, we completed the acquisition of our Southeast Asia distribution partner, and now have direct sales operations in Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand. We also sell our products to distributors in New Zealand, Taiwan, Hong Kong and other countries in Southeast Asia where we do not have direct sales operations. We distribute our products in Asia-Pacific through third-party logistics providers based in Hong Kong, China, South Korea, Australia and India.
We have a license agreement with Dome Corporation, which produces, markets and sells our branded apparel, footwear and accessories in Japan. Our branded products are sold in Japan to large sporting goods retailers, independent specialty stores and professional sports teams, and through licensee-owned retail stores. We hold an equity method investment in Dome.
Latin America
We sell products through wholesale customers in Mexico, Chile, Argentina and Colombia. We also sell though e-commerce websites, our own brand houses and factory houses in both Mexico and Chile, while we sell through wholesale partner stores in Argentina and Colombia. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2020, we determined to change to a distributor model in Chile and have executed an asset sale agreement. We expect to close this sale in early Fiscal 2021. In certain other Latin America countries we distribute our products through independent distributors which are sourced primarily through our international distribution hub in Panama. We have license and distribution agreements with third parties that sells our products in Brazil and other markets within the region.
Connected Fitness
Thoughout Fiscal 2020, we offered digital fitness subscriptions, along with digital advertising through our MapMyFitness, MyFitnessPal and Endomondo platforms. Our MapMyFitness platform includes applications, such as MapMyRun and MapMyRide. We engage this community by developing innovative services and other digital solutions to impact how athletes and fitness-minded individuals train, perform and live. As noted above, in December 2020, we completed the sale of our MyFitnessPal platform, which represented the largest business within our Connected Fitness segment and discontinued our Endomondo platform.

5

Product Design and Development
Our products are developed in collaboration with our product development teams and manufactured with technical fabrications produced by third parties. This approach enables us to select and create superior, technically advanced materials, curated to our specifications, while focusing our product development efforts on style, performance and fit.
With a mission to make athletes better, we seek to deliver superior performance in all products. Our developers proactively identify opportunities to create and improve performance products that meet the evolving needs of our consumer. We design products with consumer-valued technologies, utilizing color, texture and fabrication to enhance our consumers perception and understanding of product use and benefits.
Our product development team works closely with our sports marketing and sales teams as well as professional and collegiate athletes to identify product trends and determine market needs. For example, these teams worked closely to identify the opportunity and market for our COLDGEAR® Infrared product, which is a ceramic print technology on the inside of our garments that provides athletes with lightweight warmth, and UA HOVR™, a proprietary underfoot cushioning wrapped in a mesh web, equipped with a MapMyRun powered sensor designed to deliver energy return and real-time coaching.

Sourcing, Manufacturing and Quality Assurance
Many of the specialty fabrics and other raw materials used in our apparel products are technically advanced products developed by third parties and may be available, in the short term, from a limited number of sources. The fabric and other raw materials used to manufacture our apparel products are sourced by our contracted manufacturers from a limited number of suppliers pre-approved by us. In Fiscal 2020, approximately 39% of the fabric used in our apparel products came from 5 suppliers. These fabric suppliers have primary locations in Taiwan, China, Malaysia, and Vietnam. The fabrics used by our suppliers and manufacturers are primarily synthetic and involve raw materials, including petroleum based products that may be subject to price fluctuations and shortages. We also use cotton in some of our apparel products as a blended fabric. Cotton is a commodity that is subject to price fluctuations and supply shortages. Additionally, our footwear uses raw materials that are sourced from a diverse base of third party suppliers. This includes chemicals and petroleum-based components such as rubber that are also subject to price fluctuations and supply shortages.
Substantially all of our products are manufactured by unaffiliated manufacturers. In Fiscal 2020, our apparel and accessories products were manufactured by 50 primary contract manufacturers, operating in 18 countries, with approximately 68% of our apparel and accessories products manufactured in Vietnam, Jordan, Malaysia and China. Of our 50 primary contract manufacturers, 10 produced approximately 57% of our apparel and accessories products. In Fiscal 2020, our footwear products were manufactured by six primary contract manufacturers, operating primarily in Vietnam, Indonesia and China. These six primary contract manufacturers produced substantially all of our footwear products.
All manufacturers across all product divisions are evaluated for quality systems, social compliance and financial strength by our internal teams prior to being selected and on an ongoing basis. Where appropriate, we strive to qualify multiple manufacturers for particular product types and fabrications. We also seek out vendors that can perform multiple manufacturing stages, such as procuring raw materials and providing finished products, which helps us to control our cost of goods sold. We enter into a variety of agreements with our contract manufacturers, including non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements, and we require that all of our manufacturers adhere to a code of conduct regarding quality of manufacturing, working conditions and other social concerns. We do not, however, have any long term agreements requiring us to utilize any manufacturer, and no manufacturer is required to produce our products for the long term. We have subsidiaries strategically located near our key partners to support our manufacturing, quality assurance and sourcing efforts for our products. We also manufacture a limited number of products, primarily for high-profile athletes and teams, on-premises in our quick turn, Special Make-Up Shop located at one of our facilities in Maryland.

Inventory Management
Inventory management is important to the financial condition and operating results of our business. We manage our inventory levels based on existing orders, anticipated sales and the rapid-delivery requirements of our customers. Our inventory strategy is focused on continuing to meet consumer demand while improving our inventory efficiency over the long term by putting systems and processes in place to improve our inventory management. These systems and processes, including our global operating and financial reporting information
6

technology system, are designed to improve our forecasting and supply planning capabilities. In addition to systems and processes, key areas of focus that we believe will enhance inventory performance are added discipline around the purchasing of product, production lead time reduction, and better planning and execution in selling of excess inventory through our factory house stores and other liquidation channels.
Our practice, and the general practice in the apparel, footwear and accessory industries, is to offer retail customers the right to return defective or improperly shipped merchandise. As it relates to new product introductions, which can often require large initial launch shipments, we commence production before receiving orders for those products from time to time.

Intellectual Property
We believe we own the material trademarks used in connection with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products, both domestically and internationally, where our products are currently sold or manufactured. Our major trademarks include the UA Logo and UNDER ARMOUR®, both of which are registered in the United States, Canada, Mexico, the European Union, Japan, China and numerous other countries. We also own trademark registrations for other trademarks including, among others, UA®, ARMOUR®, HEATGEAR®, COLDGEAR®, PROTECT THIS HOUSE®, I WILL®, and many trademarks that incorporate the term ARMOUR such as ARMOUR® FLEECE and ARMOUR BRA®. We also own registrations to protect our connected fitness branding such as MapMyFitness® and associated MapMy marks. We own domain names for our primary trademarks (most notably underarmour.com and ua.com) and hold copyright registrations for several commercials, as well as for certain artwork. We intend to continue to strategically register, both domestically and internationally, trademarks and copyrights we utilize today and those we develop in the future. We will continue to aggressively police our trademarks and pursue those who infringe, both domestically and internationally.
We believe the distinctive trademarks we use in connection with our products are important in building our brand image and distinguishing our products from those of others. These trademarks are among our most valuable assets. In addition to our distinctive trademarks, we also place significant value on our trade dress, which is the overall image and appearance of our products, and we believe our trade dress helps to distinguish our products in the marketplace.
We traditionally have had limited patent protection on some of the technology, materials and processes used in the manufacture of our products. In addition, patents are increasingly important with respect to our innovative products and new businesses and investments. As we continue to expand and drive innovation in our products, we seek patent protection on products, features and concepts we believe to be strategic and important to our business. We will continue to file patent applications where we deem appropriate to protect our new products, innovations and designs that align with our corporate strategy. We expect the number of applications to increase as our business grows and as we continue to expand our products and innovate.

Competition
The market for performance apparel, footwear and accessories is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their production and marketing of performance products. Our competitors include, among others, Nike, Adidas, Puma and lululemon athletica, some of which are large apparel and footwear companies with strong worldwide brand recognition and significantly greater resources than us. Many of the fabrics and technology used in manufacturing our products are not unique to us, and we own a limited number of fabric or process patents. We also compete with other manufacturers, including those specializing in performance apparel and footwear, and private label offerings of certain retailers, including some of our retail customers.
In addition, we must compete with others for purchasing decisions, as well as limited floor space at retailers. We believe we have been successful in this area because of the relationships we have developed and the strong sales of our products. However, if retailers earn higher margins from our competitors’ products, they may favor the display and sale of those products.
We believe we have been able to compete successfully because of our brand image and recognition, the performance and quality of our products and our selective distribution policies. We also believe our focused product style merchandising story differentiates us from our competition. In the future we expect to compete for consumer preferences and expect that we may face greater competition on pricing. This may favor larger competitors with lower production costs per unit that can spread the effect of price discounts across a larger array of products and across a larger customer base than ours. The purchasing decisions of consumers for our products often reflect
7

highly subjective preferences that can be influenced by many factors, including advertising, media, product sponsorships, product improvements and changing styles.

Human Capital Management
Under Armour is led by its purpose—We Empower Those Who Strive for More—and our teammates, who bring their different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives, are central to driving our long-term success as an organization and brand. Consistent with our purpose, we believe that our brand is stronger when our collective team is fully engaged and working together to support our athletes around the world. We also believe that having an engaged, diverse and committed workforce not only enhances our culture, it drives our business success, ultimately helping us to deliver the most innovative products that make athletes better. Our human capital management strategy is therefore focused on creating an inclusive workplace where our teammates can thrive by attracting, developing and retaining talent through a competitive total rewards program, numerous development opportunities and a diverse, inclusive and engaging work environment.
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 16,600 teammates worldwide, including approximately 12,000 in our brand and factory house stores and approximately 1,300 at our distribution facilities. Approximately 7,000 of our teammates were full-time. Of our approximately 9,600 part-time teammates, approximately 27% were seasonal teammates.
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion starts at the top with a highly skilled and diverse Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors has ongoing oversight of our human capital management strategies and programs and regularly reviews our progress towards achieving our diversity, equity and inclusion goals.
We have set measurable goals for improving diversity amongst our team, including a commitment to increase the number of historically underrepresented teammates throughout the levels of leadership within our organization by 2023. These goals are publicly outlined on our corporate website, where we also publish our representation statistics annually. We are also committed to continuing to increase representation of women in key areas of our business particularly in leadership, commercial and technical roles globally. Our annual incentive plan for all teammates, including executives, incorporates performance measures in furtherance of our diversity, equity and inclusion goals.
As of December 31, 2020:
•the race and ethnicity of our teammate population in the United States, including teammates in our brand and factory house stores and our distribution facilities, was 51% White, 21% Hispanic or Latino, 17% Black or African American, 6% Asian and 5% other;
•the race and ethnicity of our "director" level and above positions in the United States was 78% White, 7% Hispanic or Latino, 7% Black or African American, 6% Asian and 2% other; and
•53% of our global teammates were women, and women represented 37% of our “director” level and above positions.
In addition to building a more diverse team, we believe fostering an inclusive and ethical culture is key to our values and who we are as an organization. We believe open lines of communication are critical to fostering this environment. This starts with “tone at the top” and we emphasize the importance of our Code of Conduct and encourage our teammates to “speak-up” when they have concerns. We require unconscious bias training for all of our corporate teammates and our retail and distribution facility leadership, including training focused on promoting diversity during our new-hire interview process. In Fiscal 2020, we launched a company-wide virtual series to facilitate meaningful conversations on anti-racism and racial justice issues. For our senior leadership, we require mandatory training on cultural competency and building inclusive environments. We also invest in professional development specifically for our historically underrepresented and women teammates to improve retention and advancement. We currently have nine teammate-led Teammate Resource Groups, which amplify business initiatives, provide networking opportunities, support community outreach and promote cultural awareness. In addition, in Fiscal 2020 we established the Global T.E.A.M. (Teammate Equity and Accountability Movement) Council, our internal diversity, equity and inclusion council, comprising “director” level and above corporate teammates focused on fostering a diverse and inclusive work environment across our organization.
Total Rewards
Our total rewards strategy is focused on providing market competitive and internally equitable total rewards packages that allow us to attract, engage and retain a talented, diverse and inclusive workforce. In determining our
8

compensation practices, we focus on offering competitive pay that is based on market data with packages that appropriately reflect roles and geographic locations. We believe in “pay for performance” and seek to design plans and programs to support a culture of high performance where we reward what is accomplished and how. We are also committed to achieving pay equity within all teammate populations, and with the assistance of third-party experts, conduct an annual review of pay equity and market comparison data. When we identify opportunities, we take prompt actions to close any gaps.
Our total rewards programs, which are outlined on the careers page of our corporate website, are aimed at the varying health, financial and home-life needs of our teammates. In the United States, where approximately 69% of our workforce is located, in addition to market-competitive pay and broad-based bonuses, our full-time teammates are eligible for healthcare benefits; health savings accounts; flexible spending accounts; retirement savings plan; paid time off; family, maternity and paternity leave; adoption assistance; child and adult care resources; flexible work schedules; short and long term disability; life and accident insurance; tuition assistance; fitness benefits at on-site gyms or eligible fitness programs; commuter benefits; Under Armour merchandise discounts; and a Work-Life Assistance Program. We believe in promoting alignment between our teammates and stockholders. As such, these teammates are also eligible to participate in our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and corporate teammates within our “director” level and above positions receive restricted stock unit awards as a key component of their total compensation package. Outside of the United States, we provide similarly competitive benefit packages to those of our U.S.-teammates but tailored to market-specific practices and needs.
We believe that giving back to the communities where we live and work is central to our culture. In addition to competitive time off benefits, our full-time teammates also receive 40 hours of additional paid time off each year for personal volunteer activities performed during working hours.
Talent Development and Engagement
Our purpose of empowering those who strive for more is embodied in our commitment to helping our teammates develop their skills, grow their careers and achieve their goals. We believe our investment in these areas enhances our teammate engagement, improves the efficiency and productivity of our work and ultimately drives better results for our business. We prioritize and invest in a wide range of training and development opportunities for teammates at all levels, including through both online and instructor-led internal and external programs. All of our teammates have access to an online learning platform and knowledge database, Armour U, which offers an extensive, regularly updated library of seminars on a variety of topics. We also offer resources to support individual development planning, including emphasizing development opportunities as part of teammates’ annual goal setting process.
We invest in developing the leadership strength and capabilities of people-leaders at all levels, including through trainings focused on how to effectively manage, communicate with and drive the performance of teams. Through our succession planning efforts, we further focus on talent development for key roles within our organization.
We believe these efforts keep our teammates engaged and motivated to do their best work. We regularly collect feedback to better understand and improve our teammate experience and identify opportunities to continually strengthen our culture.
Health and Safety
In Fiscal 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic brought unprecedented challenges to our business, our communities, our athletes and our teammates. As we managed through these challenges, we prioritized the health, safety and overall well-being of our teammates. We implemented a new COVID-19 sick leave policy, which offers full-time and part-time teammates in the United States and Canada additional paid sick time if they are unable to work due to COVID-19 related circumstances, including experiencing COVID-19 related symptoms. At each of our office, retail store and distribution house locations, we follow applicable local, state and national government regulations, laws and recommended guidance. At our distribution houses, which have remained open, we have implemented government-recommended COVID-19 prevention measures, including reworking all job areas to reduce close contact, implementing daily health questioning, enhancing cleaning protocols, requiring face coverings and social distancing and adding physical distancing barriers and increased hand sanitizing stations. As discussed in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - COVID-19,” in Fiscal 2020, primarily in the second and third quarters, we closed many of our brand and factory house retail stores due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As we have reopened certain of our retail stores, in addition to requiring daily teammate wellness assessments, we have implemented COVID-19 prevention measures at these locations similar to those described above. With respect to our corporate teammates, many of our corporate offices remain closed (including our global headquarters) or are open in a limited capacity and the majority of our corporate teammates have shifted
9

to working remotely. We offer resources for teammates working remotely, which are targeted at optimizing remote work environments and managing COVID-19 related challenges and address topics such as office ergonomics and mental and emotional health and well-being.

Available Information
We will make available free of charge on or through our website at https://about.underarmour.com/ our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We also post on this website our key corporate governance documents, including our board committee charters, our corporate governance guidelines and our code of conduct and ethics.

Information About Our Executive Officers
Our executive officers are:
Name		Age		Position	Kevin Plank		48		Executive Chairman and Brand Chief	Patrik Frisk		58		Chief Executive Officer and President	David Bergman		48		Chief Financial Officer	Colin Browne		57		Chief Operating Officer	Lisa Collier		55		Chief Product Officer	Alessandro de Pestel		55		Chief Marketing Officer	Stephanie Pugliese		50		President of the Americas	Tchernavia Rocker		47		Chief People and Administrative Officer	John Stanton		60		General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

Kevin Plank has been Executive Chairman and Brand Chief since January 2020. Prior to that, he served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors from 1996, when he founded our Company, to 2019, and President from 1996 to July 2008 and August 2010 to July 2017. Mr. Plank also serves on the Board of Directors of the National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame, Inc., and is a member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Maryland College Park Foundation.

    Patrik Frisk has been Chief Executive Officer and President and a member of our Board of Directors since January 2020. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer from July 2017 to December 2019. Prior to Under Armour, he was Chief Executive Officer of The ALDO Group, a global footwear and accessories company. Previous to that, he spent more than a decade with VF Corporation where he held numerous leadership positions including Coalition President of Outdoor Americas (The North Face® and Timberland®), President of the Timberland® brand, President of Outdoor & Action Sports (EMEA), and Vice President and General Manager of The North Face®. Before joining VF Corporation, Mr. Frisk ran his own retail business in Scandinavia and held senior positions with Peak Performance and W.L. Gore & Associates.

David Bergman has been Chief Financial Officer since November 2017. Mr. Bergman joined the Company in 2005 and has served in various Finance and Accounting leadership roles for the Company, including Corporate Controller from 2006 to October 2014, Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller from November 2014 to January 2016, Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance from February 2016 to January 2017, and acting Chief Financial Officer from February 2017 to November 2017. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bergman worked as a C.P.A. within the audit and assurance practices at Ernst & Young LLP and Arthur Andersen LLP.

Colin Browne has been Chief Operating Officer since February 2020. Prior to that, he served as Chief Supply Chain Officer from July 2017 to January 2020 and President of Global Sourcing from September 2016 to June 2017. Prior to joining our Company, he served as Vice President and Managing Director for VF Corporation, leading its sourcing and product supply organization in Asia and Africa from November 2013 to August 2016 and as Vice President of Footwear Sourcing from November 2011 to October 2013. Prior thereto, Mr. Browne served as Executive Vice President of Footwear and Accessories for Li and Fung Group LTD from September 2010 to
10

November 2011 and Chief Executive Officer, Asia for Pentland Brands PLC from April 2006 to January 2010. Mr. Browne has over 25 years of experience leading sourcing efforts for large brands.

Lisa K. Collier has been Chief Product Officer since April 2020. Prior to joining our Company, Ms. Collier served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of NYDJ (Not Your Daughter’s Jeans) from June 2016 to January 2020. Prior thereto, Ms. Collier served as Executive Vice President and President of Global Dockers Brand of Levi Strauss & Company from July 2013 to May 2016 and as Chief Transformation Officer from October 2013 to January 2015. Ms. Collier also served as Senior Vice President of Product Development and Innovation across all brands from 2012 to 2013, Senior Vice President Global Dockers Merchandising, Licensing, Supply Chain from 2010 to 2012, as Managing Director and General Manager of Levi Strauss Australia and New Zealand from 2007 to 2011, and prior to that in various other leadership roles at Levi Strauss & Company. Ms. Collier served in various leadership roles at Sunrise Brands (formerly Tarrant Apparel Group) from 1999 to 2003. She also served in various merchandising positions at The Limited from 1987 to 1999 and started her career in retail and apparel at Hess’s Department Store.
Alessandro de Pestel has been Chief Marketing Officer since October 2018. Prior to joining our Company, he served as Executive Vice President of Global Marketing, Communications and Consumer Insights for Tommy Hilfiger Global from October 2014 to September 2018 and as Senior Vice President of Marketing and Communication from January 2007 to September 2014. Prior thereto, Mr. de Pestel served in various leadership roles in Marketing and Communications at brands such as Calvin Klein, Fila, Omega and Christian Dior from 1999 to 2006.

Stephanie Pugliese has been President of the Americas since June 2020. Prior to that she served as President of North America from September 2019 to May 2020. Prior to joining our Company, Ms. Pugliese served as Chief Executive Officer and President of Duluth Trading Company from February 2015 to August 2019, and as President from February 2012 to August 2019. Prior thereto, Ms. Pugliese served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Duluth Trading Company from February 2014 to February 2015, Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer from July 2010 to February 2012 and as Vice President of Product Development from November 2008 to July 2010. Ms. Pugliese also served in various leadership roles with Lands’ End, Inc. from 2005 to 2008 and at Ann Inc. from 2000 to 2003.

Tchernavia Rocker has been Chief People and Administrative Officer since June 2020. Prior to that she served as Chief People and Culture Officer from February 2019 to May 2020. Prior to joining our Company, she served more than 18 years in Human Resources leadership roles at Harley-Davidson, Inc., most recently as Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer from June 2016 through January 2019, as General Manager, Human Resources from January 2012 through May 2016, and in various other Human Resources leadership positions since joining the company in 2000. Prior to that, she served in various HR and operations roles at Goodyear Dunlop North America Tire Inc.

John Stanton has been General Counsel since March 2013, and Corporate Secretary since February 2008. Prior thereto, he served as Vice President, Corporate Governance and Compliance from October 2007 to February 2013 and Deputy General Counsel from February 2006 to September 2007. Prior to joining our Company, he served in various legal roles at MBNA Corporation from 1993 to 2005, including as Senior Executive Vice President, Corporate Governance and Assistant Secretary. He began his legal career at the law firm Venable, LLP.
