Item 1. Business

 

GENERAL

 

Union Pacific Railroad Company is the principal operating company of Union Pacific Corporation. One of America's most recognized companies, Union Pacific Railroad Company connects 23 states in the western two-thirds of the country by rail, providing a critical link in the global supply chain. The Railroad’s diversified business mix includes Bulk, Industrial, and Premium. Union Pacific serves many of the fastest-growing U.S. population centers, operates from all major West Coast and Gulf Coast ports to eastern gateways, connects with Canada's rail systems, and is the only railroad serving all six major Mexico gateways. Union Pacific provides value to its roughly 10,000 customers by delivering products in a safe, reliable, fuel-efficient, and environmentally responsible manner.

 

Union Pacific Corporation was incorporated in Utah in 1969 and maintains its principal executive offices at 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179. The telephone number at that address is (402) 544-5000. The common stock of Union Pacific Corporation is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “UNP”. 

 

For purposes of this report, unless the context otherwise requires, all references herein to “UPC”, “Corporation”, “Company”, “we”, “us”, and “our” shall mean Union Pacific Corporation and its subsidiaries, including Union Pacific Railroad Company, which we separately refer to as “UPRR” or the “Railroad”. 

 

STRATEGY

 

Union Pacific’s strategy is predicated on being the best freight railroad in North America, which is established through safety, service, reliability, and efficiency. That sets the foundation for growth, which, combined with increasing margins, creates long term enterprise value. We expect to generate growth in three ways – increasing profitable carloads that fit our network and transportation plan; providing more products and services to our customers; and increasing the geographic reach of our franchise.

 

The “how” also is evident. Operational excellence and an engaged workforce with deep market knowledge and strong customer relationships will result in best-in-class safety, a customer experience that drives growth, and shareholder returns. The following individual strategic elements work together driving Union Pacific forward:

 

Safest and Most Reliable Freight Rail Products and Services. 

Highly Efficient Operations. 

Industry-Leading Customer Experience. 

Secure Appropriate Business. 

Best-in-industry Cash Returns. 

Optimal Investment. 

Proud and Engaged Workforce. 

 

As we transform our railroad into the safest, most reliable, and most efficient in North America, our values will continue guiding us: Our passion for performance will help us win; our high ethical standards will ensure we do not win at the expense of any one stakeholder; and our teamwork will make sure we win together.

 

To assist us in accomplishing our goal of being the best freight railroad in North America, we announced our efficiency and business growth initiative of G55+0 (grow to an operating ratio of 55 with zero injuries), which was launched in late 2015. Additionally, beginning in October 2018, we began conversion to precision scheduled railroading (PSR) in an effort to streamline operations with four principles:

 

1.Shift the focus of operations from moving trains to moving cars.

2.Minimize car dwell, car classification events, and locomotive power requirements.

3.Utilize general-purpose trains by blending existing train service.

4.Balance train movements to improve the utilization of crews and rail assets.

 

 

 

6

 

We want to move cars faster, reducing the number of times each is touched, resulting in terminal consolidation opportunities, improved asset utilization, and fewer car classifications, allowing product to get to the market quicker and more reliably. The end result is we are delivering a better customer experience, which will enable us to grow our market share.

 

OPERATIONS

 

The Railroad, along with its subsidiaries and rail affiliates, is our one reportable operating segment. Although we provide revenue by commodity group, we analyze the net financial results of the Railroad as one segment due to the integrated nature of our rail network. Additional information regarding our business and operations, including revenues, financial information and data, and other information regarding environmental matters, is presented in Risk Factors, Item 1A; Legal Proceedings, Item 3; Selected Financial Data, Item 6; Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7; and the Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Item 8 (which include information regarding revenues, statements of income, and total assets). 

 

 

 

 

 

Operations – UPRR is a Class I railroad operating in the U.S. We have 32,313 route miles, connecting Pacific Coast and Gulf Coast ports with the Midwest and eastern U.S. gateways and providing several corridors to key Mexican gateways. We serve the Western two-thirds of the country and maintain coordinated schedules with other rail carriers to move freight to and from the Atlantic Coast, the Pacific Coast, the Southeast, the Southwest, Canada, and Mexico. Export and import traffic moves through Gulf Coast and Pacific Coast ports and across the Mexican and Canadian borders. In 2020, we generated freight revenues totaling $18.3 billion from the following three commodity groups:

 

2020 Freight Revenue

Picture 1

 

Bulk – The Company's Bulk shipments consist of grain and grain products, fertilizer, food and refrigerated, and coal and renewables. In 2020, this group generated 33% of our freight revenue. We access most major grain markets, connecting the Midwest and Western U.S. producing areas to export terminals in the Pacific Northwest and Gulf Coast ports, as well as Mexico. We also serve significant domestic markets, including grain processors, animal feeders, and ethanol producers in the Midwest and West. Fertilizer movements originate in the Gulf Coast region, Midwest, western U.S., and Canada (through interline access) for delivery to major agricultural users in those areas as well as abroad. The Railroad’s network supports the transportation of coal shipments to independent and regulated power companies and industrial facilities throughout the U.S. Through interchange gateways and ports, UPRR’s reach extends to eastern U.S. utilities as well as to Mexico and other international destinations. Coal traffic originating in the Powder River Basin (PRB) area of Wyoming is the largest segment of the Railroad’s coal business. Renewable shipments for customers committed to sustainability consist primarily of biomass exports and wind turbine components.

 

Industrial – Our extensive network facilitates the movement of numerous commodities between thousands of origin and destination points throughout North America. The Industrial group consists of several categories, including construction, industrial chemicals, plastics, forest products, specialized products (primarily waste, salt, roofing, and government), metals and ores, petroleum, liquid petroleum gases (LPG), and soda ash. Transportation of these products accounted for 36% of our freight revenue in 2020. Commercial, residential, and governmental infrastructure investments drive shipments of steel, aggregates, cement, and wood products. Industrial and light manufacturing plants receive steel, nonferrous materials, minerals, and other raw materials. 

 

The industrial chemicals market consists of a vast number of chemical compounds that support the manufacturing of more complex chemicals. Plastics shipments support automotive, housing, and the durable and disposable consumer goods markets. Forest product shipments include lumber and paper commodities. Lumber shipments originate primarily in the Pacific Northwest or western Canada and move 

 

 

7

throughout the U.S. for use in new home construction and repairs and remodeling. Paper shipments primarily support packaging needs. Oil and gas drilling generates demand for raw steel, finished pipe, stone, and drilling fluid commodities. The Company’s petroleum and LPG shipments are primarily impacted by refinery utilization rates, regional crude pricing differentials, pipeline capacity, and the use of asphalt for road programs. Soda ash originates in southwestern Wyoming and California, destined for chemical and glass producing markets in North America and abroad. 

 

Premium – In 2020, Premium shipments generated 31% of Union Pacific’s total freight revenue. Premium includes finished automobiles, automotive parts, and merchandise in intermodal containers, both domestic and international. International business consists of import and export traffic moving in 20 or 40-foot shipping containers, that mainly pass through West Coast ports served by UP’s extensive terminal network. Domestic business includes container and trailer traffic picked up and delivered within North America for intermodal marketing companies (primarily shipper agents and logistics companies) as well as truckload carriers. 

 

We are the largest automotive carrier west of the Mississippi River and operate or access 38 vehicle distribution centers. The Railroad’s extensive franchise serves five vehicle assembly plants and connects to West Coast ports, all six major Mexico gateways, and the Port of Houston to accommodate both import and export shipments. In addition to transporting finished vehicles, UPRR provides expedited handling of automotive parts in both boxcars and intermodal containers destined for Mexico, the U.S., and Canada.

 

Seasonality – Some of the commodities we carry have peak shipping seasons, reflecting either or both the nature of the commodity and the demand cycle for the commodity (such as certain agricultural and food products that have specific growing and harvesting seasons). The peak shipping seasons for these commodities can vary considerably each year depending upon various factors, including the strength of domestic and international economies and currencies and the strength of harvests and market prices for agricultural products.

 

Proud & Engaged Workforce – We recruit and develop talented individuals dedicated to our mission of service and who are passionate about performing to the best of their abilities while working as one team. We recognize and value that people come from all backgrounds and walks of life, and we value diversity. Union Pacific wants employees from all groups to launch and grow their career within the Company.

 

Attracting, acquiring, and maintaining a diverse workforce provides access to the skills and character we need to foster innovative ideas and drive optimal business growth. Drawing on different experiences and expertise is critical for strategic decision-making, problem-solving, leadership development, and creativity. 

 

Union Pacific’s commitment – today and for the long run, is to further improve and strengthen performance through an inclusive workforce that reflects the diverse markets and communities we serve. Recognizing we still have work to do, we continue to focus on building an inclusive culture and a talented workforce and marketplace with a goal to reach 40% minority and 11% female representation in total for the Company by 2030. As of December 31, 2020, workforce representation of minorities and females was approximately 30% and 6%, respectively. 

 

Safety is Union Pacific’s first priority. We continue to improve technology, enhance processes, and foster a culture focused on operating safely as well as remaining focused on identifying and managing risks and training our employees. Our success is measured by our personal injury rate (the number of reportable injuries for every 200,000 employee-hours worked), and our equipment incident rate (the number of reportable equipment incidents per million train miles). We provide both measures to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). Personal injuries are defined as on duty incidents or occupational illnesses that require employees to lose time away from work, modify their normal duties, or receive certain types of medical treatment. Equipment incidents are defined as any occurrence that causes damage to assets above the monetary reporting threshold regardless of ownership ($10,700 for 2020 and $11,200 for 2021).

 

Our goal is to have every employee return home safely every day. Unfortunately, our 2020 personal injury rate of 0.90 and equipment incident rate of 3.54 illustrates that we have not met our ultimate goal of an incident free environment. Our 2020 personal injury rate was flat and our equipment incident rate improved 17% versus 2019. (See further discussion in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, of this report.) 

 

Providing employees with fulfilling, family-supporting careers is important to us. We offer competitive compensation to our employees and leadership. Our Board of Directors evaluates our compensation plans 

 

 

8

and reviews recommendations from the Compensation and Benefits Committee. The median annual compensation for all our employees who were employed as of December 31, 2020, was $77,778 (excluding the CEO). 

 

Approximately 83% of our full-time employees are represented by 13 major rail unions. Pursuant to the Railway Labor Act (RLA), our collective bargaining agreements are subject to modification every five years. The RLA procedures include mediation, potential arbitration, cooling-off periods, and the possibility of Presidential Emergency Boards and Congressional intervention. The current round of negotiations began on January 1, 2020, related to years 2020-2024. Contract negotiations historically continue for an extended period of time, and work stoppages during negotiations are rare (see “Strikes or Work Stoppages Could Adversely Affect Our Operations” in the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report).

 

Railroad Security – Our security efforts consist of a wide variety of measures, including employee training, engagement with our customers, training of emergency responders, and partnerships with numerous federal, state, and local government agencies. While federal law requires us to protect the confidentiality of our security plans designed to safeguard against terrorism and other security incidents, the following provides a general overview of our security initiatives. 

 

UPRR Security Measures – We maintain a comprehensive security plan designed to both deter and respond to any potential or actual threats as they arise. The plan includes four levels of alert status, each with its own set of countermeasures. We employ our own police force, consisting of commissioned and highly-trained officers. The police are certified state law enforcement officers with investigative and arrest powers. The Union Pacific Police Department has achieved accreditation under the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies, Inc. (CALEA) for complying with the highest law enforcement standards. Our employees also undergo recurrent security and preparedness training as well as federally-mandated hazardous materials and security training. We regularly review the sufficiency of our employee training programs. We maintain the capability to move critical operations to back-up facilities in different locations.

 

We operate an emergency response management center 24 hours a day. The center receives reports of emergencies, dangerous or potentially dangerous conditions, and other safety and security issues from our employees, the public, law enforcement, and other government officials. In cooperation with government officials, we monitor both threats and public events, and, as necessary, we may alter rail traffic flow at times of concern to minimize risk to communities and our operations. We comply with the hazardous materials routing rules and other requirements imposed by federal law. We also design our operating plan to expedite the movement of hazardous material shipments to minimize the time rail cars remain idle at yards and terminals located in or near major population centers. Additionally, in compliance with Transportation Security Agency regulations, we deployed information systems and instructed employees in tracking and documenting the handoff of Rail Security Sensitive Materials with customers and interchange partners.

 

We also have established a number of our own innovative safety and security-oriented initiatives ranging from various investments in technology to The Officer on Train program, which provides local law enforcement officers with the opportunity to ride with train crews to enhance their understanding of railroad operations and risks. Our staff of information security professionals continually assesses cyber security risks and implements mitigation programs that evolve with the changing technology threat environment. To date, we have not experienced any material disruption of our operations due to a cyber threat or attack directed at us. We also evaluated details regarding the SolarWinds supply chain attack, and do not believe our systems were affected.

 

Cooperation with Federal, State, and Local Government Agencies – We work closely on physical and cyber security initiatives with government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), as well as local police departments, fire departments, and other first responders. In conjunction with the Association of American Railroads (AAR), we sponsor Ask Rail, a mobile application which provides first responders with secure links to electronic information, including commodity and emergency response information required by emergency personnel to respond to accidents and other situations. We also participate in the National Joint Terrorism Task Force, a multi-agency effort established by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to combat and prevent terrorism. 

 

We work with the Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), and the Military Transport Management Command, which monitor shipments entering the UPRR rail network at U.S. border crossings and ports. We were the first railroad in the U.S. to be named a partner in CBP’s Customs-Trade Partnership 

 

 

9

Against Terrorism, a partnership designed to develop, enhance, and maintain effective security processes throughout the global supply chain.

 

Cooperation with Customers and Trade Associations – Through TransCAER (Transportation Community Awareness and Emergency Response), we work with the AAR, the American Chemistry Council, the American Petroleum Institute, and other chemical trade groups to provide communities with preparedness tools, including the training of emergency responders. In cooperation with the FRA and other interested groups, we are also working to develop additional improvements to tank car design that will further limit the risk of releases of hazardous materials.

 

Competition – see “We Face Competition from Other Railroads and Other Transportation Providers” in the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report.

 

Key Suppliers – see “We Are Dependent on Certain Key Suppliers of Locomotives and Rail” in the Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report.

 

Available Information – Our Internet website is www.up.com. We make available free of charge on our website (under the “Investors” caption link) our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; our current reports on Form 8-K; our proxy statements; Forms 3, 4, and 5, filed on behalf of our directors and certain executive officers; and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We provide these reports and statements as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We also make available on our website previously filed SEC reports and exhibits via a link to EDGAR on the SEC’s Internet site at www.sec.gov. Additionally, our corporate governance materials, including By-Laws, Board Committee charters, governance guidelines and policies, and codes of conduct and ethics for directors, officers, and employees are available on our website. From time to time, the corporate governance materials on our website may be updated as necessary to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the NYSE or as desirable to promote the effective and efficient governance of our Company. Any security holder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of our SEC filings or corporate governance materials should send a written request to: Secretary, Union Pacific Corporation, 1400 Douglas Street, Omaha, NE 68179.

 

References to our website address in this report, including references in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Item 7, are provided as a convenience and do not constitute, and should not be deemed, an incorporation by reference of the information contained on, or available through, the website. Therefore, such information should not be considered part of this report.

 

GOVERNMENTAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION

 

Governmental Regulation – Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state, and local regulations, generally applicable to all businesses. (See also the discussion of certain regulatory proceedings in Legal Proceedings, Item 3.)

 

The operations of the Railroad are also subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Surface Transportation Board (STB). The STB has jurisdiction over rates charged on certain regulated rail traffic; common carrier service of regulated traffic; freight car compensation; transfer, extension, or abandonment of rail lines; and acquisition of control of rail common carriers. The STB continues its efforts to explore expanding rail regulation and is reviewing proposed rulemaking in various areas, including reciprocal switching, commodity exemptions, and expanding and easing procedures for smaller rate complaints. The STB also continues to develop a methodology for determining railroad revenue adequacy and the possible use of a revenue adequacy constraint in regulating railroad rates. The STB posts quarterly reports on rate reasonableness cases and maintains a database on service complaints, and has the authority to initiate investigations, among other things.

 

The operations of the Railroad also are subject to the regulations of the FRA and other federal and state agencies. In 2010, the FRA issued initial rules governing installation of Positive Train Control (PTC). PTC is a safety technology intended to prevent certain accidents caused by human error, such as train-to-train collisions, derailments caused by overspeed, movement of a train through a misaligned switch, and unauthorized movement of trains into work zones. The Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2015 amended the Rail Safety Improvement Act to require implementation of PTC by the end of 2018, which was extended to December 31, 2020. On December 10, 2018, we received FRA approval for an alternative schedule to implement, test, and refine our PTC system during 2019-2020. As of December 31, 2020, PTC 

 

 

10

has been implemented and installed on 100 percent of our required rail lines, including required passenger train routes, and interoperability has been established with all other PTC host and tenant railroads. Through 2020, we have invested approximately $2.9 billion in the implementation and ongoing development of PTC. We are now moving to further leverage the PTC system through development and implementation of new operating technologies, such as fuel and in-train forces management systems.  

 

DOT, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and DHS, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of safety, movement of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, emissions requirements, and equipment standards. Additionally, various state and local agencies have jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste and seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in ways not preempted by federal law.

 

Environmental Regulation – We are subject to extensive federal and state environmental statutes and regulations pertaining to public health and the environment. The statutes and regulations are administered and monitored by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and by various state environmental agencies. The primary laws affecting our operations are the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, regulating the management and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, regulating the cleanup of contaminated properties; the Clean Air Act, regulating air emissions; and the Clean Water Act, regulating waste water discharges. 

 

Information concerning environmental claims and contingencies and estimated remediation costs is set forth in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies – Environmental, Item 7, and Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.