PART I
United Rentals, Inc., incorporated in Delaware in 1997, is principally a holding company. We primarily conduct our operations through our wholly owned subsidiary, United Rentals (North America), Inc., and its subsidiaries. As used in this report, the term “Holdings” refers to United Rentals, Inc., the term “URNA” refers to United Rentals (North America), Inc., and the terms the “Company,” “United Rentals,” “we,” “us,” and “our” refer to United Rentals, Inc. and its subsidiaries, in each case unless otherwise indicated.
Unless otherwise indicated, the information under Items 1, 1A and 2 is as of January 1, 2021.

Item 1.    Business
United Rentals is the largest equipment rental company in the world, operates throughout the United States and Canada, and has a limited presence in Europe. The table below presents key information about our business as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Our business is discussed in more detail below. The data below should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, our Management’s Discussion and Analysis and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report.
1
Table of Contents
2020		2019	PERFORMANCE MEASURES				Total revenues (in millions)	$8,530		$9,351	Equipment rental revenue percent of total revenues	84%		85%	Equipment rental revenue variance components:				Year-over-year change in average original equipment cost (“OEC”)	(2.2)%		17.7%	Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1)	(1.5)%		(1.5)%	Fleet productivity (2)	(6.9)%		(2.2)%	Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3)	0.3%		0.8%	Total equipment rental revenue variance	(10.3)%		14.8%	Pro forma equipment rentals variance components (4):				Year-over-year change in average OEC			4.9%	Assumed year-over-year inflation impact (1)			(1.5)%	Fleet productivity (2)			0.6%	Contribution from ancillary and re-rent revenue (3)			0.1%	Total equipment rental revenue variance			4.1%	Key account percent of equipment rental revenue	74%		72%	National account percent of equipment rental revenue	44%		43%	FLEET				Fleet OEC (in billions)	$13.78		$14.63	Equipment classes	4,000		4,000	Equipment units	615,000		665,000	Fleet age in months	54.5		49.5	Percent of fleet that is current on manufacturer's recommended maintenance	81%		81%	Equipment rental revenue percent by fleet type:				General construction and industrial equipment	43%		43%	Aerial work platforms	27%		28%	General tools and light equipment	8%		8%	Power and HVAC (heating, ventilating and air conditioning) equipment	9%		8%	Trench safety equipment	6%		6%	Fluid solutions equipment	7%		7%	LOCATIONS/PERSONNEL				Rental locations	1,165		1,175	Approximate range of branches per district	4-11		4-11	Approximate range of districts per region	5-10		4-9	Hourly employees	12,550		13,400	Salaried employees	5,700		5,700	Total employees	18,250		19,100INDUSTRY				Estimated North American market share	13%		13%	Estimated North American equipment rental industry revenue (decline) growth (2)	(12)%		5%2021 projected North American industry equipment rental revenue growth	2%		-CUSTOMERS/SUPPLIERS				Largest customer percent of total revenues	1%		1%	Top 10 customers percent of total revenues	4%		4%	Largest supplier percent of capital expenditures	9%		12%	Top 10 supplier percent of capital expenditures	45%		52% 
2
Table of Contents
(1)Reflects the estimated impact of inflation on the revenue productivity of fleet based on OEC, which is recorded at cost.
(2)Reflects the combined impact of changes in rental rates, time utilization, and mix that contribute to the variance in owned equipment rental revenue. See note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the different types of equipment rentals revenue. Rental rate changes are calculated based on the year-over-year variance in average contract rates, weighted by the prior period revenue mix. Time utilization is calculated by dividing the amount of time an asset is on rent by the amount of time the asset has been owned during the year. Mix includes the impact of changes in customer, fleet, geographic and segment mix. The negative fleet productivity for 2020 includes the impact of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”), which resulted in rental volume declines in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions, as discussed further below. The 2020 decline in North American equipment rental industry revenue also includes the impact of COVID-19 (see "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for further discussion).
(3)Reflects the combined impact of changes in the other types of equipment rentals revenue (see note 3 for further detail), excluding owned equipment rental revenue.
(4)We completed the acquisitions of BakerCorp International Holdings, Inc. (“BakerCorp”) and Vander Holding Corporation and its subsidiaries ("BlueLine") in July 2018 and October 2018, respectively. The pro forma information includes the standalone, pre-acquisition results of BakerCorp and BlueLine. The pro forma components are not reflected above for 2020 versus 2019 because BakerCorp and BlueLine are fully reflected in our results for these periods.
COVID-19
COVID-19 was first identified in people in late 2019. COVID-19 spread rapidly throughout the world and, in March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly disrupted supply chains and businesses around the world. The extent and duration of the COVID-19 impact, on the operations and financial position of United Rentals, and on the global economy, is uncertain. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" below for a discussion of market performance in 2020. The health and safety of our employees and customers remains our top priority, and we have also engaged in extensive contingency planning to manage the business impact of the pandemic.
Prior to mid-March 2020, our results were largely in line with expectations. We began to experience a decline in revenues in March 2020, when rental volume declined in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions. COVID-19 is discussed in more detail throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”
Human Capital
The Company’s key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain and develop talent to deliver on the Company’s strategy. To support these objectives, the Company’s human resources programs are designed to: keep people safe and healthy; enhance the Company’s culture through efforts aimed at making the workplace more inclusive; acquire and retain diverse talent; reward and support employees through competitive pay and benefit programs; develop talent to prepare them for critical roles and leadership positions; and facilitate internal talent mobility to create a high-performing workforce. See “Locations/Personnel” in the table above for information on employee counts.
The Company focuses on the following in managing its human capital:
•Health and safety: We have a safety program that focuses on implementing management systems, policies and training programs and performing assessments to see that workers are trained properly and that injuries and incidents are prevented. All of our employees are empowered with stop-work authority which enables them to immediately stop any unsafe or potentially hazardous working condition or behavior they may observe. We utilize a mixture of indicators to assess the safety performance of our operations, including total recordable injury rate, preventable motor vehicle incidents per million miles, corrective actions and near miss frequency. We also recognize outstanding safety behaviors through our annual awards program. Importantly, during the COVID-19 pandemic, our continuing focus on health and safety enabled us to preserve business continuity without sacrificing our commitment to keeping our colleagues safe.
•Employee wellness: The Company’s Live Well, Safe & Healthy program is a comprehensive approach to wellness that encourages healthy behaviors and is intended to raise morale, productivity and overall employee engagement. The program includes a biometric screening at work or off-site, a health assessment, a paid day off to be used for a wellness exam or day of service, tobacco cessation support, and participation incentives. Additionally, employees and family members can participate in biannual virtual health challenges to encourage daily activity. Approximately 46 percent of eligible employees participated in the program in 2020.
•Inclusion and diversity (“I&D”): We believe that an inclusive and diverse team is key to the success of our culture and aim to drive I&D initiatives through many efforts, including sponsoring three employee-led employee resource groups (“ERGs”) that represent and support the diverse communities that make up our workforce. The ERGs
3
Table of Contents
facilitate networking and connecting with peers, outreach and mentoring, and leadership and skill development. The Company has internal goals for overall workforce diversity and additional goals for specific positions at the Company. In addition, the Company has made hiring and supporting veterans a priority through its veterans ERG and working with organizations that support the veteran community. Importantly, in 2020, one of our ERGs co-hosted a series of internal conversations with senior leadership that focused on racial inequality and injustice to spark dialogue among employees and leaders in an effort to build a more inclusive, diverse and empowered culture at the Company.
•Compensation programs and employee benefits: Our compensation and benefits programs provide a package designed to attract, retain and motivate employees. In addition to competitive base salaries, the Company provides a variety of short-term, long-term and commission-based incentive compensation programs to reward performance relative to key financial, human capital and customer experience metrics. We offer comprehensive benefit options including retirement savings plans, medical insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental insurance, vision insurance, accident and critical illness insurance, life and disability insurance, health savings accounts, flexible spending accounts, legal insurance, auto/home insurance and identity theft insurance. Additionally, we have conducted three company-wide stock grant programs for employees since 2014 – the most recent grant program took place in 2020 and was in recognition of our employees’ special efforts during the COVID-19 pandemic.
•Employee experience and retention: To evaluate our employee experience and retention efforts, we monitor a number of employee measures, such as employee retention, internal promotions and referrals. We also conduct an annual employee experience survey, which provides valuable information on drivers of engagement and areas where we can improve. For instance, we learned through our 2020 survey process that 92 percent of our team members intend to stay with the Company to continue building and growing their careers. To provide an open and frequent line of communication for all employees, we host town hall meetings and quarterly all employee conference calls, and utilize Workplace by Facebook to engage with our full team. The Company also sponsors the United Compassion Fund, an employee-funded 501(c)(3) charity that provides financial assistance to fellow employees in need. In 2020, employees voluntarily donated over $1.4 million to the fund, and employees received 356 grants totaling over $750,000.
•Training and development: The Company is committed to the continued development of its people. We aim for all applicable new hires to attend Center of Excellence training within 90 days of hire, which training was delivered virtually during most of 2020. Additionally, we offer a wide array of training solutions (classroom, hands-on and e-learning) for our people. In 2020, our employees enhanced their skills through approximately 370,000 hours of training, including safety training, sales and leadership training and equipment-related training from our suppliers. Our employee training hours declined significantly relative to prior years because we paused in-person trainings beginning in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. While we were able to resume with virtual trainings in some cases, we did not resume many of those trainings until June and we were unable to provide certain types of training in a virtual format. Additionally, we had fewer new hires and did not gain employees through acquisitions, reducing the need for new hire and acquisition training. We also offer an undergraduate tuition assistance program. Our performance process encourages performance and development check-ins throughout the year to provide for development at all levels across the Company.
Strategy
For the past several years, we have executed a strategy focused on improving the profitability of our core equipment rental business through revenue growth, margin expansion and operational efficiencies. In particular, we have focused on customer segmentation, customer service differentiation, rate management, fleet management and operational efficiency.
We are currently managing the impact of COVID-19, as discussed throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Our general strategy focuses on profitability and return on invested capital, and, in particular, calls for:
•A consistently superior standard of service to customers, often provided through a single lead contact who can coordinate the cross-selling of the various services we offer throughout our network. We utilize a proprietary software application, Total Control®, which provides our key customers with a single in-house software application that enables them to monitor and manage all their equipment needs. Total Control® is a unique customer offering that enables us to develop strong, long-term relationships with our larger customers. Our digital capabilities, including our Total Control® platform, allow our sales teams to provide contactless end-to-end customer service;
•The further optimization of our customer mix and fleet mix, with a dual objective: to enhance our performance in serving our current customer base, and to focus on the accounts and customer types that are best suited to our strategy for profitable growth. We believe these efforts will lead to even better service of our target accounts, primarily large construction and industrial customers, as well as select local contractors. Our fleet team's analyses
4
Table of Contents
are aligned with these objectives to identify trends in equipment categories and define action plans that can generate improved returns;
•A continued focus on “Lean” management techniques, including kaizen processes focused on continuous improvement. We continue to implement Lean kaizen processes across our branch network, with the objectives of: reducing the cycle time associated with renting our equipment to customers; improving invoice accuracy and service quality; reducing the elapsed time for equipment pickup and delivery; and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our repair and maintenance operations;
•The continued expansion of our trench, power and fluid solutions footprint, as well as our tools and onsite services offerings, and the cross-selling of these services throughout our network. We believe that the expansion of our trench, power and fluid solutions business, as well as our tools and onsite services offerings, will further position United Rentals as a single source provider of total jobsite solutions through our extensive product and service resources and technology offerings; and
•The pursuit of strategic acquisitions to continue to expand our core equipment rental business. Strategic acquisitions allow us to invest our capital to expand our business, further driving our ability to accomplish our strategic goals.
Industry Overview and Economic Outlook
United Rentals serves the following three principal end-markets for equipment rental in North America: industrial and other non-construction; commercial (or private non-residential) construction; and residential construction, which includes remodeling. In July 2018, we completed the acquisition of BakerCorp, which allowed for our entry into select European markets (the acquisition added 11 European locations in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands to our branch network). In 2020, based on an analysis of our charge account customers’ Standard Industrial Classification (“SIC”) codes:
•Industrial and other non-construction rentals represented approximately 49 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals to manufacturers, energy companies, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, shipbuilders, utilities, retailers and infrastructure entities;
•Commercial construction rentals represented approximately 47 percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals related to the construction and remodeling of facilities for office space, lodging, healthcare, entertainment and other commercial purposes; and
•Residential rentals represented approximately four percent of our rental revenue, primarily reflecting rentals of equipment for the construction and renovation of homes.
We estimate that, based on industry estimates from the American Rental Association ("ARA"), 2020 North American equipment rental industry revenue decreased approximately 12 percent year-over-year, with similar declines in the U.S. and Canada. In 2020, our full year rental revenue decreased by 10.3 percent year-over-year. We estimate that our North American market share of approximately 13 percent increased slightly in 2020. As discussed in more detail throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, the decline in rental revenue includes the impact of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”), which resulted in rental volume declines in response to shelter-in-place orders and other market restrictions.
In 2021, based on our analyses of industry forecasts and macroeconomic indicators, we expect modest market recovery following the declines experienced in 2020, which included the pronounced impact of COVID-19. Specifically, we expect that North American industry equipment rental revenue will increase approximately 2 percent, with higher growth expected in Canada than the U.S.
Competitive Advantages
We believe that we benefit from the following competitive advantages:
Large and Diverse Rental Fleet. Our large and diverse fleet allows us to serve large customers that require substantial quantities and/or wide varieties of equipment. We believe our ability to serve such customers should allow us to improve our performance and enhance our market leadership position.
We manage our rental fleet, which is the largest and most comprehensive in the industry, utilizing a life-cycle approach that focuses on satisfying customer demand and optimizing utilization levels. As part of this life-cycle approach, we closely monitor repair and maintenance expense and can anticipate, based on our extensive experience with a large and diverse fleet, the optimum time to dispose of an asset.
5
Table of Contents
Significant Purchasing Power. We purchase large amounts of equipment, contractor supplies and other items, which enables us to negotiate favorable pricing, warranty and other terms with our vendors.
National Account Program. Our national account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large companies, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. National accounts are generally defined as customers with potential annual equipment rental spend of at least $500,000 or customers doing business in multiple states. We offer our national account customers the benefits of a consistent level of service across North America, a wide selection of equipment and a single point of contact for all their equipment needs. National accounts are a subset of key accounts, which are our accounts that are managed by a single point of contact. Establishing a single point of contact for our key accounts helps us provide customer service management that is more consistent and satisfactory.
Operating Efficiencies. We benefit from the following operating efficiencies:
•Equipment Sharing Among Branches. Each branch within a region can access equipment located elsewhere in the region. This fleet sharing increases equipment utilization because equipment that is idle at one branch can be marketed and rented through other branches. Additionally, fleet sharing allows us to be more disciplined with our capital spend.
•Customer Care Center. We have a Customer Care Center ("CCC") in Charlotte, North Carolina that handles all telephone calls to our customer service telephone line, 1-800-UR-RENTS. The CCC handles many of the 1-800-UR-RENTS telephone calls without having to route them to individual branches, and allows us to provide a more uniform quality experience to customers, manage fleet sharing more effectively and free up branch employee time.
•Consolidation of Common Functions. We reduce costs through the consolidation of functions that are common to our branches, such as accounts payable, payroll, benefits and risk management, information technology and credit and collection.
Our information technology systems, some of which are proprietary and some of which are licensed, support our operations. Our information technology infrastructure facilitates our ability to make rapid and informed decisions, respond quickly to changing market conditions and share rental equipment among branches. We have an in-house team of information technology specialists that supports our systems.
Our information technology systems are accessible to management, branch and call center personnel. Leveraging information technology to achieve greater efficiencies and improve customer service is a critical element of our strategy. Each branch is equipped with one or more workstations that are electronically linked to our other locations and to our data center. Rental transactions can be entered at these workstations, or through various mobile applications, to be processed on a real-time basis.
Our information technology systems:
•    enable branch personnel to (i) determine equipment availability, (ii) access all equipment within a geographic region and arrange for equipment to be delivered from anywhere in the region directly to the customer, (iii) monitor business activity on a real-time basis and (iv) obtain customized reports on a wide range of operating and financial data, including equipment utilization, rental rate trends, maintenance histories and customer transaction histories;
•    allow our mobile sales and service team members to support our customers efficiently while in the field;
•    permit customers to access their accounts online; and
•    allow management to obtain a wide range of operational and financial data.
We have a fully functional back-up facility designed to enable business continuity for our core rental and financial systems in the event that our main computer facility becomes inoperative. This back-up facility also allows us to perform system upgrades and maintenance without interfering with the normal ongoing operation of our information technology systems.
Strong Brand Recognition. As the largest equipment rental company in the world, we have strong brand recognition, which helps us attract new customers and build customer loyalty.
Geographic and Customer Diversity. We have 1,165 rental locations in the U.S., Canada and Europe. Our North American network operates in 49 U.S. states and every Canadian province, and serves customers that range from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. The acquisition of BakerCorp in July 2018 added 11 European locations in France, Germany, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands to our branch network. We believe that our geographic and customer diversity provides us with many advantages including:
•enabling us to better serve national account customers with multiple locations;
6
Table of Contents
•helping us achieve favorable resale prices by allowing us to access used equipment resale markets across North America; and
•reducing our dependence on any particular customer.
 Our foreign operations are subject to the risks normally associated with international operations. These include (i) the need to convert currencies, which could result in a gain or loss depending on fluctuations in exchange rates and (ii) the need to comply with foreign laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations applicable to our operations in foreign jurisdictions. For additional financial information regarding our geographic diversity, see note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.
Strong and Motivated Branch Management. Each of our full-service branches has a manager who is supervised by a district manager. We believe that our managers are among the most knowledgeable and experienced in the industry, and we empower them, within budgetary guidelines, to make day-to-day decisions concerning branch matters. Each regional office has a management team that monitors branch, district and regional performance with extensive systems and controls, including performance benchmarks and detailed monthly operating reviews.
Risk Management and Safety Programs. Our risk management department is staffed by experienced professionals directing the procurement of insurance, managing claims made against the Company, and developing loss prevention programs to address workplace safety, driver safety and customer safety. The department’s primary focus is on the protection of our employees and assets, as well as protecting the Company from liability for accidental loss.
Segment Information
We have two reportable segments– (i) general rentals and (ii) trench, power and fluid solutions. Segment financial information is presented in note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.
The general rentals segment includes the rental of construction, aerial and industrial equipment, general tools and light equipment, and related services and activities. The general rentals segment’s customers include construction and industrial companies, manufacturers, utilities, municipalities and homeowners. The general rentals segment comprises eleven geographic regions—Carolinas, Gulf South, Industrial (which serves the geographic Gulf region and has a strong industrial presence), Mid-Atlantic, Mid Central, Midwest, Northeast, Pacific West, South, Southeast and Western Canada—and operates throughout the United States and Canada. We periodically review the size and geographic scope of our regions, and have occasionally reorganized the regions to create a more balanced and effective structure. 
The trench, power and fluid solutions segment includes the rental of specialty construction products and related services. The trench, power and fluid solutions segment is comprised of (i) the Trench Safety region, which rents trench safety equipment such as trench shields, aluminum hydraulic shoring systems, slide rails, crossing plates, construction lasers and line testing equipment for underground work, (ii) the Power and HVAC region, which rents power and HVAC equipment such as portable diesel generators, electrical distribution equipment, and temperature control equipment including heating and cooling equipment, and (iii) the Fluid Solutions and (iv) Fluid Solutions Europe regions, both of which rent equipment primarily used for fluid containment, transfer and treatment. The trench, power and fluid solutions segment’s customers include construction companies involved in infrastructure projects, municipalities and industrial companies. This segment operates throughout the United States and in Canada and Europe.
Products and Services
Our principal products and services are described below.
Equipment Rental. We offer for rent approximately 4,000 classes of rental equipment on an hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis. The types of equipment that we offer include general construction and industrial equipment; aerial work platforms; trench safety equipment; power and HVAC equipment; fluid solutions equipment; and general tools and light equipment.
Sales of Rental Equipment. We routinely sell used rental equipment and invest in new equipment in order to manage repairs and maintenance costs, as well as the composition and size of our fleet. We also sell used equipment in response to customer demand for the equipment. Consistent with the life-cycle approach we use to manage our fleet, the rate at which we replace used equipment with new equipment depends on a number of factors, including changing general economic conditions, growth opportunities, the market for used equipment, the age of our fleet and the need to adjust fleet composition to meet customer demand.
7
Table of Contents
We utilize many channels to sell used equipment: through our national and export sales forces, which can access many resale markets across our network; at auction; through brokers; and directly to manufacturers. We also sell used equipment through our website, which includes an online database of used equipment available for sale.
Sales of New Equipment. We sell equipment such as aerial lifts, reach forklifts, telehandlers, compressors and generators from many leading equipment manufacturers. The type of new equipment that we sell varies by location.
Contractor Supplies Sales. We sell a variety of contractor supplies including construction consumables, tools, small equipment and safety supplies.
Service and Other Revenues. We offer repair and maintenance services and sell parts for equipment that is owned by our customers.
Customers
Our customer base is highly diversified and ranges from Fortune 500 companies to small businesses and homeowners. Our customer base varies by branch and is determined by several factors, including the equipment mix and marketing focus of the particular branch as well as the business composition of the local economy, including construction opportunities with different customers. Our customers include:
•construction companies that use equipment for constructing and renovating commercial buildings, warehouses, industrial and manufacturing plants, office parks, airports, residential developments and other facilities;
•industrial companies—such as manufacturers, chemical companies, paper mills, railroads, ship builders and utilities—that use equipment for plant maintenance, upgrades, expansion and construction;
•municipalities that require equipment for a variety of purposes; and
•homeowners and other individuals that use equipment for projects that range from simple repairs to major renovations.
Our business is seasonal, with demand for our rental equipment tending to be lower in the winter months.
Sales and Marketing
We market our products and services through multiple channels as described below.
Sales Force. Our sales representatives work in our branches and at our customer care center, and are responsible for calling on existing and potential customers as well as assisting our customers in planning for their equipment needs. We have ongoing programs for training our employees in sales and service skills and on strategies for maximizing the value of each transaction.
National Account Program. Our national account sales force is dedicated to establishing and expanding relationships with large customers, particularly those with a national or multi-regional presence. Our national account team closely coordinates its efforts with the local sales force in each area.
Online Rental Platform (UROne®). Our customers can check equipment availability and pricing, and reserve equipment online, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by accessing our equipment catalog and used equipment listing, which can be found at www.unitedrentals.com. Our customers can also use our UR Control® application to actively manage their rental process and access real-time reports on their business activity with us.
Total Control®. We utilize a proprietary software application, Total Control®, which provides our key customers with a single in-house software application that enables them to monitor and manage all their equipment needs. This software can be integrated into the customers' enterprise resource planning system. Total Control® is a unique customer offering that enables us to develop strong, long-term relationships with our larger customers.
Advertising. We promote our business through local and national advertising in various media, including television, trade publications, yellow pages, the internet, radio and direct mail. We also regularly participate in industry trade shows and conferences and sponsor a variety of local and national promotional events.
Suppliers
Our strategic approach with respect to our suppliers is to maintain the minimum number of suppliers per category of equipment that can satisfy our anticipated volume and business requirements. This approach is designed to ensure that the terms
8
Table of Contents
we negotiate are competitive and that there is sufficient product available to meet anticipated customer demand. We utilize a comprehensive selection process to determine our equipment vendors. We consider product capabilities and industry position, the terms being offered, product liability history, customer acceptance and financial strength. We believe we have sufficient alternative sources of supply available for each of our major equipment categories.
Competition
The North American equipment rental industry is highly fragmented and competitive. As the largest equipment rental company in the industry, we estimate that we have an approximate 13 percent market share in North America based on 2020 total equipment rental industry revenues as measured by the ARA. Estimated market share is calculated by dividing our total 2020 North American rental revenue by ARA’s forecasted 2020 industry revenue. Our competitors primarily include small, independent businesses with one or two rental locations; regional competitors that operate in one or more states; public companies or divisions of public companies that operate nationally or internationally; and equipment vendors and dealers who both sell and rent equipment directly to customers. We believe we are well positioned to take advantage of this environment because, as a larger company, we have more resources and certain competitive advantages over our smaller competitors. These advantages include greater purchasing power, the ability to provide customers with a broader range of equipment and services, and greater flexibility to transfer equipment among locations in response to, and in anticipation of, customer demand. The fragmented nature of the industry and our relatively small market share, however, may adversely impact our ability to mitigate rental rate pressure. See "Industry Overview and Economic Outlook" above for a discussion of market performance in 2020, which included the pronounced impact of COVID-19, as well as projected performance in 2021.
Environmental and Safety Regulations
Our operations are subject to numerous laws governing environmental protection and occupational health and safety matters. These laws regulate issues such as wastewater, stormwater, solid and hazardous wastes and materials, and air quality. Our operations generally do not raise significant environmental risks, but we use and store hazardous materials as part of maintaining our rental equipment fleet and the overall operations of our business, dispose of solid and hazardous waste and wastewater from equipment washing, and store and dispense petroleum products from storage tanks at certain locations. Under environmental and safety laws, we may be liable for, among other things, (i) the costs of investigating and remediating contamination at our sites as well as sites to which we send hazardous wastes for disposal or treatment, regardless of fault, and (ii) fines and penalties for non-compliance. We incur ongoing expenses associated with the performance of appropriate investigation and remediation activities at certain locations.
Employees
Approximately 5,700 of our employees are salaried and approximately 12,550 are hourly. Collective bargaining agreements relating to approximately 117 separate locations cover approximately 1,330 of our employees. We monitor employee satisfaction through ongoing surveys and consider our relationship with our employees to be good.
Available Information
We make our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports, as well as our other SEC filings, available on our website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Our website address is www.unitedrentals.com. The information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference in this document.