ITEM 1.    BUSINESS.

V.F. Corporation, founded in 1899, is one of the world's largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies connecting people to the lifestyles, activities and experiences they cherish most through a family of iconic outdoor, active and workwear brands. Unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms “VF,” the "Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” used herein refer to V.F. Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise noted, all discussion below, including amounts and percentages for all periods, reflect the results of operations and financial condition from VF’s continuing operations. As such, both the Jeans business subject to the spin-off completed May 22, 2019 and the Occupational Workwear business that met the held-for-sale and discontinued operations criteria during the three months ended March 28, 2020 have been excluded.
VF’s diverse portfolio meets consumer needs across a broad spectrum of activities and lifestyles. Our ability to connect with consumers, as diverse as our brand portfolio, creates a unique platform for sustainable, long-term growth. Our long-term growth strategy is focused on four strategic choices:
•
Drive and optimize our portfolio. Investing in our brands to realize their full potential, while ensuring the composition of our portfolio positions us to win in evolving market conditions;
•
Distort investments to Asia. Investing in and scaling our business across the Asia-Pacific region, especially China, to unlock growth opportunities for our brands in this fast-growing region;
•
Elevate direct channels. Investing in our direct-to-consumer business to make it the pinnacle expression of our brands, and prioritizing serving consumers through e-commerce and digitally enabled transactions; and,
•
Accelerate our consumer-minded, retail-centric, hyper-digital business model transformation. Becoming consumer- and retail-centric to meet and exceed consumers' needs across all channels, and operate our business differently - from the design studio to the factory floor to the point of sale - by thinking and acting more like a vertical retailer.
 
VF is diversified across brands, product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer demographics. We own a
broad portfolio of brands in the outerwear, footwear, apparel, backpack, luggage and accessories categories. Our largest brands are Vans®, The North Face®, Timberland® and Dickies®.
Our products are marketed to consumers through our wholesale channel, primarily in specialty stores, department stores, national chains, mass merchants, independently-operated partnership stores and with strategic digital partners. Our products are also marketed to consumers through our own direct-to-consumer operations, which include VF-operated stores, concession retail stores, brand e-commerce sites and other digital platforms. Revenues from the direct-to-consumer business represented 41% of VF’s total Fiscal 2020 revenues. In addition to selling directly into international markets, many of our brands also sell products through licensees, agents and distributors. In Fiscal 2020, VF derived 59% of its revenues from the Americas region, 28% from the Europe region and 13% from the Asia-Pacific region.
To provide diversified products across multiple channels of distribution in different geographic areas, we primarily rely on our global sourcing of finished goods from independent contractors. We utilize state-of-the-art supply chain technologies for inventory replenishment that enable us to effectively and efficiently get the right assortment of products that match consumer demand.
The chief operating decision maker allocates resources and assesses performance based on a global brand view which represents VF's operating segments. Global brands have been combined into reportable segments based on similar economic characteristics and qualitative factors. The reportable segments for financial reporting purposes have been identified as: Outdoor, Active and Work.


VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K 1
Table of Contents


The following table summarizes VF’s brands by reportable segment:
REPORTABLE SEGMENT
 
BRANDS
 
PRIMARY PRODUCTS
Outdoor
 
The North Face®
 
High performance outdoor apparel, footwear, equipment, accessories
 
 
Timberland®
 
Outdoor lifestyle footwear, apparel, accessories
 
 
Icebreaker®
 
High performance apparel based on natural, plant-based and recycled fibers
 
 
Smartwool®
 
Performance merino wool and other natural fibers-based apparel and accessories
 
 
Altra®
 
Performance-based footwear
Active
 
Vans®
 
Youth culture/action sports-inspired footwear, apparel, accessories
 
 
Kipling®
 
Handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes, accessories
 
 
Napapijri®
 
Premium outdoor apparel, footwear, accessories
 
 
Eastpak®
 
Backpacks, luggage
 
 
JanSport®
 
Backpacks, luggage
 
 
Eagle Creek®
 
Luggage, backpacks, travel accessories
Work
 
Dickies®
 
Work and work-inspired lifestyle apparel and footwear
 
 
Timberland PRO®
 
Protective work footwear, work and work-inspired lifestyle apparel
Financial information regarding VF’s reportable segments is included in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
OUTDOOR SEGMENT

Our Outdoor segment is a group of authentic outdoor-based lifestyle brands. Product offerings include performance-based and outdoor apparel, footwear and equipment.
The North Face® is the largest brand in our Outdoor segment. The North Face® brand features performance-based apparel, outerwear, sportswear and footwear for men, women and children. Its equipment line includes tents, sleeping bags, backpacks and accessories. Many of The North Face® products are designed for extreme winter sport activities, such as high altitude mountaineering, skiing, snowboarding, and ice and rock climbing. The North Face® products are marketed globally, primarily through specialty outdoor and premium sporting goods stores, independent distributors, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, over 200 VF-operated stores, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.thenorthface.com.
The Timberland® brand offers outdoor, adventure-inspired lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories that combine performance benefits and versatile styling for men, women and children. We sell Timberland® products globally through chain, department and specialty stores, independent distributors and licensees, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, over 230 VF-operated stores, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.timberland.com.
 
The Icebreaker® brand specializes in performance apparel and accessories based on natural fibers, including Merino wool and other plant-based fibers. Icebreaker® products are sold globally through premium outdoor and specialty stores, independent distributors, over 30 VF-operated stores, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.icebreaker.com.
The Smartwool® brand offers active outdoor consumers a premium, technical layering system of merino wool socks, apparel and accessories that are designed to work together in fit, form and function. Smartwool® products are sold globally through premium outdoor and specialty stores, independent distributors, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.smartwool.com.
Altra® is a performance-based footwear brand primarily in the road and trail running categories. Altra® products are sold through premium outdoor and specialty stores, independent distributors, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.altrarunning.com.
We expect continued long-term growth in our Outdoor segment as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, grow our direct-to-consumer business including our digital presence, expand wholesale channel partnerships, develop geographically and acquire additional brands.


2 VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K
Table of Contents


ACTIVE SEGMENT

Our Active segment is a group of activity-based lifestyle brands. Product offerings include active apparel, footwear and accessories.
Vans® is the largest brand in our Active segment. The Vans® brand offers performance and casual footwear and apparel targeting younger consumers that sit at the center of action sports, art, music and street fashion. Vans® products are available globally through chain stores, specialty stores, independent distributors and licensees, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, more than 700 VF-operated stores, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.vans.com.
Kipling® branded handbags, luggage, backpacks, totes and accessories are sold globally through department, specialty and luggage stores, independently-operated partnership stores, independent distributors, concession retail stores, more than 75  VF-operated stores, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.kipling.com.
The Napapijri® brand offers outdoor-inspired casual outerwear, sportswear and accessories at a premium price. Products are marketed to men, women and children primarily in Europe. Products are sold in department and specialty stores, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, independent distributors, more than 25 VF-operated stores,
 
on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.napapijri.com.
Eastpak® backpacks, travel bags and luggage are sold primarily through department and specialty stores across Europe, on brand websites with strategic digital partners, throughout Asia by distributors and online at www.eastpak.com.
JanSport® backpacks and accessories are sold in North America, through department, office supply and chain stores, as well as sports specialty stores and independent distributors. JanSport® products are also sold on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.jansport.com.
Eagle Creek® adventure travel gear products include luggage, backpacks and accessories sold through specialty luggage, outdoor and department stores primarily in North America, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.eaglecreek.com.
We expect continued long-term growth in our Active segment as we focus on product innovation, extend our brands into new product categories, grow our direct-to-consumer business including our digital presence, expand wholesale channel partnerships, develop geographically and acquire additional brands.
WORK SEGMENT

Our Work segment consists of work and work-inspired lifestyle brands with product offerings that include apparel, footwear and accessories.
Dickies® is the largest brand in our Work segment. The Dickies® brand is a leader in authentic, functional, durable and affordable workwear and has expanded to produce work-inspired, casual-use products. Dickies® products are available globally through mass merchants, specialty stores, independent distributors and licensees, independently-operated partnership stores, concession retail stores, more than 25 VF-operated stores, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.dickies.com.
The Timberland PRO® brand offers work and work-inspired products that provide comfort, durability and performance.
 
Timberland PRO® products are available through specialty stores, chain stores, independent distributors, on brand websites with strategic digital partners and online at www.timberland.com. Timberland PRO® products are also available in most domestic VF-operated Timberland® stores.
We believe there is a strategic opportunity for growth in our Work segment in both existing and future markets and all channels and geographies by introducing innovative products that address workers’ desires for increased comfort and performance, combined with our increased presence in the retail workwear market and work-inspired lifestyle product offerings.
DIRECT-TO-CONSUMER OPERATIONS

Our direct-to-consumer business includes retail stores, brand e-commerce sites, concession retail locations and other digital platforms. Direct-to-consumer revenues were 41% of total VF revenues in the year ended March 2020.
Our full-price retail stores allow us to display a brand’s full line of products with fixtures and imagery that support the brand’s positioning and promise to consumers. These experiences provide high visibility for our brands and products and enable us to stay close to the needs and preferences of our consumers. The complete and impactful presentation of products in our stores also helps to increase sell-through of VF products at our wholesale customers due to increased brand awareness, education and visibility. VF-operated full-price stores generally provide gross margins that are well above VF averages.
 
In addition, VF operates outlet stores in both premium outlet malls and more traditional value-based locations. These outlet stores carry merchandise that is specifically designed for sale in our outlet stores and serve an important role in our overall inventory management and profitability by allowing VF to sell a significant portion of excess, discontinued and out-of-season products at better prices than otherwise available from outside parties, while maintaining the integrity of our brands.
Our growing global direct-to-consumer operations included 1,379 stores at the end of Fiscal 2020. We operate retail store locations for the following brands: Vans®, Timberland®, The North Face®, Kipling®, Dickies®, Napapijri® and Icebreaker®. Approximately 56% of our stores are located in the Americas region (50% in the U.S.), 25% in the Europe region and 19% in the Asia-Pacific region. We


VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K 3
Table of Contents


opened 102 stores during Fiscal 2020, concentrating on the brands with the highest retail growth potential: Vans® and The North Face®. Additionally, we have approximately 800 concession retail stores located principally in Europe and Asia.
E-commerce represented approximately 28% of our direct-to-consumer business in the year ended March 2020. All VF brands are marketed online. We continue to expand our e-commerce initiatives by rolling out additional, country-specific brand sites in Europe and Asia, which enhances our ability to deliver a superior, localized consumer experience. We also continue to increase focus on digital innovation and growth across other digital platforms.
We expect our direct-to-consumer business to continue growing as we accelerate our consumer-minded, retail-centric, hyper-digital business model transformation.
 
In addition to our direct-to-consumer operations, our licensees, distributors and other independent parties own and operate approximately 3,000 partnership stores. These are primarily mono-brand retail locations selling VF products that have the appearance of VF-operated stores. Most of these partnership stores are located in Europe and Asia, and are concentrated in the Timberland®, The North Face®, Vans®, Dickies®, Kipling® and Napapijri® brands.
LICENSING ARRANGEMENTS

As part of our strategy of expanding market penetration of VF-owned brands, we enter into licensing agreements with independent parties for specific apparel and complementary product categories when such arrangements provide more effective manufacturing, distribution and marketing than could be achieved internally. We provide support to these business partners and ensure the integrity of our brand names by taking an active role in the design, quality control, advertising, marketing and distribution of licensed products.
 
Licensing arrangements relate to a broad range of VF brands. License agreements are for fixed terms of generally 3 to 5 years, with conditional renewal options. Each licensee pays royalties to VF based on its sales of licensed products, with most agreements providing for a minimum royalty requirement. Royalties generally range from 4% to 10% of the licensing partners’ net licensed products sales. Royalty income was $57.4 million in the year ended March 2020 (less than 1% of total revenues), primarily from the Vans®, Dickies® and Timberland® brands.
MANUFACTURING, SOURCING AND DISTRIBUTION
Product design and innovation, including fit, fabric, finish and quality, are important elements across our businesses. These functions are performed by employees located in our global supply chain organization and our branded business units across the globe.
VF’s centralized global supply chain organization is responsible for producing, procuring and delivering products to our customers. VF is highly skilled in managing the complexities associated with our global supply chain. In the year ended March 2020, VF sourced or produced approximately 364 million units spread across our brands. Our products were obtained from approximately 300 independent contractor manufacturing facilities in approximately 40 countries and from 4 VF-operated manufacturing facilities. Additionally, we operate 23 distribution centers and 1,379 retail stores. Managing this complexity is made possible by the use of a network of information systems for product development, forecasting, order management and warehouse management, along with our core enterprise resource management platforms.
In the year ended March 2020, 94% of our units were obtained from independent contractors and 6% were manufactured in VF-owned facilities. Products obtained from contractors in the Western Hemisphere generally have a higher cost than products obtained from contractors in Asia. However, contracting in the Western Hemisphere gives us greater flexibility, shorter lead times and allows for lower inventory levels for the U.S. market. The use of contracted production with different geographic regions and cost structures, provides a flexible approach to product sourcing. We will continue to manage our supply chain from a global perspective and adjust as needed to changes in the global production environment.
 
Independent contractors generally own the raw materials and ship finished, ready-for-sale products to VF. These contractors are engaged through VF sourcing hubs in Hong Kong (with satellite offices across Asia) and Panama. These hubs are responsible for managing the manufacturing and procurement of product, supplier oversight, product quality assurance, sustainability within the supply chain, responsible sourcing and transportation and shipping functions. In addition, our hubs leverage proprietary knowledge and technology to enable certain contractors to more effectively control costs and improve labor efficiency.
Management continually monitors political risks and developments related to duties, tariffs and quotas. We limit VF’s sourcing exposure through, among other measures: (i) diversifying production among countries and contractors, (ii) sourcing production to merchandise categories where product is readily available, and (iii) sourcing from countries with tariff preference and free trade agreements. VF does not directly or indirectly source products from suppliers in countries that are prohibited by the U.S. State Department.
No single supplier represented more than 7% of our total cost of goods sold during Fiscal 2020.
VF operates manufacturing facilities in Mexico, Honduras and the Dominican Republic, which are used to produce a portion of footwear and other products. For these owned production facilities, we purchase raw materials from numerous U.S. and international suppliers to meet our production needs. Raw materials include products made from cotton, leather, rubber, wool, synthetics and blends of cotton and synthetic yarn, as well as thread and trim (product identification, buttons, zippers, snaps, eyelets and laces).


4 VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K
Table of Contents


In some instances, we contract the sewing of VF-owned raw materials into finished product with independent contractors. Fixed price commitments for fabric and certain supplies are generally set on a quarterly basis for the next quarter’s purchases.
The VF-operated production facilities, as well as all independent contractor facilities that manufacture VF products, must comply with VF’s Global Compliance Principles. These principles, established in 1997 and consistent with international labor standards, are a set of strict standards covering legal and ethical business practices, worker age, work hours, health and safety conditions, environmental standards and compliance with local laws and regulations. In addition, our owned factories must also undergo certification by the independent, nonprofit organization, Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (“WRAP”), which promotes global ethics in manufacturing.
VF, through its contractor monitoring program, audits the activities of the independent businesses and contractors that produce VF products at locations across the globe. Each of the approximately 300 independent contractor facilities, including those serving our independent licensees, must be pre-certified before producing VF products. This pre-certification includes passing a factory inspection and signing a VF Terms of Engagement agreement. We maintain an ongoing audit program to ensure compliance with these requirements by using dedicated internal staff and externally contracted firms. Additional information about VF’s Code of
 
Business Conduct, Global Compliance Principles, Terms of Engagement and Environmental Compliance Guidelines, along with a Global Compliance Report, is available on the VF website at www.vfc.com.
VF did not experience difficulty in fulfilling its raw material and contracting production needs during Fiscal 2020. Absent any material changes, VF believes it would be able to largely offset any increases in product costs through (i) the continuing shift in the mix of its business to higher margin brands, geographies and channels of distribution, (ii) increases in the prices of its products, and (iii) cost reduction efforts. The loss of any one supplier or contractor would not have a significant adverse effect on our business.
Product is shipped from our independent suppliers and VF-operated manufacturing facilities to distribution centers around the world. In some instances, product is shipped directly to our customers. Most distribution centers are operated by VF, and some support more than one brand. A portion of our distribution needs are met by contract distribution centers.
Our largest distribution centers are located in Visalia, California and Prague, Czech Republic. Additionally, we operate 21 other owned or leased distribution centers primarily in the U.S., but also in Belgium, Canada, China, Mexico, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
SEASONALITY

VF’s quarterly operating results vary due to the seasonality of our individual brands, and are historically stronger in the second half of the calendar year. On a quarterly basis in Fiscal 2020, revenues ranged from a low of 20% of full year revenues in the first fiscal quarter to a high of 30% in the second fiscal quarter, while operating margin ranged from a low of -12% in the fourth fiscal quarter to a high of 17% in the second fiscal quarter. This variation results primarily from the seasonal influences on revenues of our Outdoor segment, where 13% of the segment’s revenues occurred in the first fiscal quarter compared to 33% in the second fiscal quarter of Fiscal 2020. The fourth fiscal quarter results were also negatively impacted by the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") global pandemic. With changes in our mix of business and the growth of our retail
 
operations, historical quarterly revenue and profit trends may not be indicative of future trends.
Working capital requirements vary throughout the year. Working capital typically increases early in the calendar year as inventory builds to support peak shipping periods and then moderates later in the year as those inventories are sold and accounts receivable are collected. Cash provided by operating activities is substantially higher in the second half of the calendar year due to higher net income during that period and reduced working capital requirements, particularly during the fourth quarter of the calendar year.
ADVERTISING, CUSTOMER SUPPORT AND COMMUNITY OUTREACH

During the year ended March 2020, our advertising and promotion expense was $756.3 million, representing 7% of total revenues. We advertise in consumer and trade publications, on radio and television and through digital initiatives including social media and mobile platforms on the Internet. We also participate in cooperative advertising on a shared cost basis with major retailers in print and digital media, radio and television. We sponsor sporting, musical and special events, as well as athletes and personalities who promote our products. We employ marketing sciences to optimize the impact of advertising and promotional spending, and to identify the types of spending that provide the greatest return on our marketing investments.
We provide advertising support to our wholesale customers, including independent partnership stores, in the form of point-of-sale fixtures and signage to enhance the presentation and brand image of our products. We also participate in shop-in-shops and
 
concession retail arrangements, which are separate sales areas dedicated to a specific VF brand within our customers' stores and other locations, to help differentiate and enhance the presentation of our products.
We contribute to incentive programs with our wholesale customers, including cooperative advertising funds, discounts and allowances. We also offer sales incentive programs directly to consumers in the form of discounts, rebates and coupon offers that are eligible for use in certain VF-operated stores, brand e-commerce sites and concession retail locations.
In addition to sponsorships and activities that directly benefit our products and brands, VF and its associates actively support our communities and various charities. For example, The North Face® brand has committed to programs that encourage and enable outdoor participation, such as The North Face Endurance Challenge® and The North Face Explore Fund™ programs.


VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K 5
Table of Contents


The Timberland® brand has a strong heritage of volunteerism, including the Path of Service™ program that offers full-time employees up to 40 hours of paid time off a year to serve their local communities through global service events such as Earth Day in
 
the spring and Serv-a-palooza in the fall. The Vans® brand has hosted Vans® Gives Back Day events in which all employees at the brand's headquarters spend the day volunteering in the community.
SUSTAINABILITY

VF is one of the world’s largest apparel, footwear and accessories companies. As such, we have both an opportunity and responsibility to make a positive impact on our industry and planet through advancing sustainable business practices. VF plans to achieve significant progress in several key areas of sustainability, including people, products, supply chains, materials and facilities, to create a positive global impact.
VF’s Sustainability & Responsibility strategy, Made for Change, targets three key pillars to drive transformational change and create value for our business. The strategy is focused on new circular and sustainable business models to (i) harness retail opportunities in new sectors, (ii) scale foundational social and environmental programs to lead the industry toward greater progress at a faster rate, and (iii) empower our brands, associates, and consumers to act with purpose and impact with intention.
VF has committed to measurably improve the lives of two million supply chain workers and others within their communities annually, by 2030. As a result, VF launched a Worker and Community Development Program with strategic initiatives focused on (i) water and sanitation, (ii) health and nutrition, and (iii) childcare and education. These programs have already impacted more than three hundred thousand people in more than 30 factories and communities. We are also prioritizing transparency to ensure our global supply chain improves the lives of people and the planet. In 2018, VF successfully launched traceability maps to demonstrate the end-to-end (farm-to-front door) traceability of nine iconic VF-brand products. In 2019, VF increased the number of published maps to 42, and will continue to scale traceability efforts over the next two years with a plan to enhance visibility across all VF brands.
Aligned with our scale for good ideology, in 2019, VF announced some of the industry’s most ambitious science-based targets. The new science-based carbon emissions targets include (i) an absolute reduction of Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions of 55 percent by 2030, from a 2017 baseline year; and, (ii) an absolute
 
reduction of Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions of 30 percent by 2030, from a 2017 baseline year focusing on farm-to-retail materials, sourcing operations and logistics.
Dedication to continued sustainability progress is particularly focused in the realm of VF product materials. VF set a goal of sourcing 50% recycled nylon and polyester for products by 2025, with a targeted 35% reduction in negative impact of key materials. VF also pledged to not use fur in any of our products, in support of newly released Animal Derived Materials & Forest Derived Materials policies. In December 2019, the Company created a new sustainable materials vision which establishes a clear path for environmental impact reduction through yet another bold commitment: by 2030, VF commits that 100 percent of its top nine materials, which account for approximately 90 percent of its materials-related carbon emissions, will originate from regenerative, responsibly sourced renewable, or recycled sources.
VF has set goals for internal facilities that include (i) the sourcing of 100% of electricity from renewable sources within VF-owned and operated facilities by 2025, in line with the enterprise commitment to RE100, and (ii) achieving Zero Waste at 100% of VF internal distribution center locations by 2020, with 12 facilities already verified.
VF brands are equally committed to sustainability action in their sectors. The Vans® brand has launched a shoe recycling pilot at certain southern California stores. The Timberland® brand used 97% "Leather Working Group" certified leather, 78% certified BCI or organic cotton, and produced 68% recycled, organic, or renewable products during 2019. The North Face® brand has expanded its Climate Beneficial Wool collection by selling products made in the U.S. from sustainable farms. The North Face® brand also continued its 'Renewed' collection, selling previously owned, damaged-and-repaired or used products. The recommerce model addresses one of the apparel industry’s biggest challenges, textile waste, and offers our products at a lower price point, which allows new consumers to experience our brands.
OTHER MATTERS

Competitive Factors
Our business depends on our ability to stimulate consumer demand for VF’s brands and products. VF is well-positioned to compete in the apparel, footwear and accessories sector by developing high quality, innovative products at competitive prices that meet consumer needs, providing high service levels, ensuring the right products are on the retail sales floor to meet consumer demand, investing significant amounts into existing brands and managing our brand portfolio through acquisitions and dispositions. Many of VF’s brands have long histories and enjoy strong recognition within their respective consumer segments.
Intellectual Property
Trademarks, trade names, patents and domain names, as well as related logos, designs and graphics, provide substantial value in
 
the development and marketing of VF’s products, and are important to our continued success. We have registered this intellectual property in the U.S. and in other countries where our products are manufactured and/or sold. We vigorously monitor and enforce VF’s intellectual property against counterfeiting, infringement and violations of other rights where and to the extent legal, feasible and appropriate. In addition, we grant licenses to other parties to manufacture and sell products utilizing our intellectual property in product categories and geographic areas in which VF does not operate.
Customers
VF products are sold on a wholesale basis to specialty stores, mid-tier and traditional department stores, national chains and mass merchants. In addition, we sell products on a direct-to-consumer


6 VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K
Table of Contents


basis through VF-operated stores, concession retail stores, brand e-commerce sites and other digital platforms. Our sales in international markets are growing and represented 47% of our total revenues in the year ended March 2020, the majority of which were in Europe.
Sales to VF’s ten largest customers amounted to 17% of total revenues in the year ended March 2020. Sales to the five largest customers amounted to approximately 11% of total revenues in the year ended March 2020. Sales to VF’s largest customer totaled 3% of total revenues in the year ended March 2020.
 
Employees
VF had approximately 48,000 employees at the end of Fiscal 2020, of which approximately 43% were located in the U.S. In international markets, a significant percentage of employees are covered by trade-sponsored or governmental bargaining arrangements. Employee relations are considered to be good.
Backlog
The dollar amount of VF’s order backlog as of any date may not be indicative of actual future shipments and, accordingly, is not material to an understanding of the business taken as a whole.
INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following are the executive officers of VF Corporation as of May 27, 2020. The executive officers are generally elected annually and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. None of the VF Corporation executive officers have any family relationship with one another or with any of the directors of VF Corporation.
Steven E. Rendle, 60, has been Executive Chairman of the Board since November 2017, President and Chief Executive Officer of VF since January 2017 and a Director of VF since June 2015. Mr. Rendle served as President and Chief Operating Officer from June 2015 to December 2016, Senior Vice President — Americas from April 2014 until June 2015, Vice President and Group President — Outdoor & Action Sports Americas from May 2011 until April 2014, President of VF’s Outdoor Americas businesses from 2009 to 2011, President of The North Face® brand from 2004 to 2009 and Vice President of Sales of The North Face® brand from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Rendle joined VF in 1999.
Scott A. Roe, 55, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VF since March 2019. He served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VF from April 2015 to February 2019, Vice President — Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of VF from February 2013 until March 2015, Vice President — Finance of VF from 2012 to 2013, Vice President — Chief Financial Officer of VF International from 2006 to 2012 and Vice President — Chief Financial Officer of VF’s former intimate apparel business from 2002 to 2006. Mr. Roe joined VF in 1996.
Kevin D. Bailey, 59, has been Executive Vice President and Group President — APAC since January 2018. He served as President, APAC from January 2017 until December 2017, President Action Sports & VF CASA from March 2016 to December 2016, President Action Sports & the Vans® brand from April 2014 to February 2016, Global President of the Vans® brand from June 2009 to March 2014 and Vice President Direct-to-Consumer for the Vans® brand from June 2002 to November 2007. Mr. Bailey joined VF in 2004.
Martino Scabbia Guerrini, 55, has been Executive Vice President and Group President — EMEA since January 2018. He served as President — VF EMEA from April 2017 until December 2017, Coalition President — Jeanswear, Sportswear and Contemporary International from January 2013 to November 2017, President —
 
Sportswear and Contemporary EMEA from February 2009 to December 2012 and President — Sportswear and Packs from August 2006 to January 2009. Mr. Guerrini joined VF in 2006.
Curtis A. Holtz, 57, has been Executive Vice President and Group President, Workwear since March 2019. He served as Group President — Americas East from January 2018 to February 2019, Group President — Workwear, Jeans and Sportswear from January 2017 until December 2017, President — Imagewear from July 2015 to December 2016, Chief Financial Officer of VF Imagewear and International from 2010 to 2015 and President — VF’s former intimate apparel business from 2005 to 2007. Mr. Holtz joined VF in 1990.
Bryan H. McNeill, 58, has been Vice President — Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since April 2015. He served as Controller and Supply Chain Chief Financial Officer of VF International from January 2012 until March 2015 and Controller of VF International from May 2010 until December 2011. Mr. McNeill joined VF in 1993.
Laura C. Meagher, 60, has been Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since March 2019. She served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 2012 to February 2019. She served as Vice President — Deputy General Counsel from 2008 to 2012 and Assistant General Counsel from 2004 to 2008. Ms. Meagher joined VF in 2004.
Stephen M. Murray, 59, has been Executive Vice President and Group President — Americas since November 2019. He served as Executive Vice President — Strategic Projects from April 2018 until October 2019. Earlier in his career, he served as President — Action Sports Coalition from 2009 until 2010 and President of the Vans® brand from August 2004 until 2009. Mr. Murray originally joined VF in 2004.
Additional information is included under the caption “Election of Directors” in VF’s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held July 28, 2020 (“2020 Proxy Statement”) that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of our fiscal year ended March 28, 2020, which information is incorporated herein by reference.


VF Corporation Fiscal 2020 Form 10-K 7
Table of Contents


