ITEM 1.BUSINESS
OVERVIEW
We are a global biotechnology company that invests in scientific innovation to create transformative medicines for people with serious diseases with a focus on specialty markets.
Cystic Fibrosis
Our goal is to develop treatment regimens that will provide benefits to all people with cystic fibrosis, or CF, and will enhance the benefits currently provided to people taking our medicines. Our marketed medicines are TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO (elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor/ivacaftor) and KALYDECO (ivacaftor). Our triple combination regimen, TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, was approved in 2019 in the United States, or U.S., and in 2020 in the European Union, or E.U. Collectively, our four medicines are approved to treat the majority of the approximately 83,000 people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia. We are evaluating our medicines, including our triple combination regimen, in additional patient populations, including younger children, with the goal of having small molecule treatments for up to 90% of people with CF. We are pursuing genetic therapies to address the remaining 10% of people with CF.
Research and Development
Our goal is to identify and develop innovative medicines by combining transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and in the science of therapeutics to advance human health. Our research and early development strategy includes advancing multiple compounds from each program into early clinical trials and evaluating the resulting data to inform drug discovery and development, with the goal of bringing best-in-class therapies to patients. This strategy and approach is intended to increase the likelihood of successfully bringing transformative medicines to patients.
Small Molecule Programs
Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency. We are focused on identifying and developing multiple drug candidates with the potential to increase the levels of functional alpha-1 antitrypsin, or AAT, in the blood, to address the lung and liver manifestations of AAT deficiency. Enrollment is ongoing in a Phase 2 proof-of-concept trial for VX-864, an investigational small molecule corrector for the treatment of AAT deficiency. We expect data from this clinical trial in the first half of 2021.
APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases. We are evaluating inhibitors of APOL1 function to reduce levels of protein in the urine, or proteinuria, in people with serious kidney diseases, including focal segmental glomerulosclerosis, or FSGS, and other APOL1-mediated kidney diseases. In 2020, we initiated a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial designed to evaluate the reduction in proteinuria in people with APOL1-mediated FSGS after treatment with VX-147. Enrollment in this clinical trial is ongoing and we expect data in 2021.
Pain. We believe that NaV1.8 inhibitors have the potential to provide an effective non-opioid treatment for pain. We are advancing a portfolio of NaV1.8 inhibitors through pre-clinical and early clinical development.
Cell and Genetic Therapies
Sickle cell disease and transfusion-dependent beta thalassemia. We are co-developing CTX001, an investigational CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy for sickle cell disease, or SCD, and transfusion-dependent beta thalassemia, or TDT, with CRISPR Therapeutics AG, or CRISPR. Enrollment and dosing are ongoing in two Phase 1/2 clinical trials to evaluate CTX001 as a potential one-time curative therapy for people with severe SCD and TDT. In December 2020, we announced positive interim data from 10 people treated with CTX001 and that a total of thirteen people with TDT and seven people with severe SCD have been dosed with CTX001. We expect to complete enrollment in both clinical trials in 2021.
Type 1 Diabetes. In 2019, we acquired Semma Therapeutics, Inc., or Semma, and established preclinical cell therapy programs for type 1 diabetes, or T1D. We are pursuing two programs for the transplant of functional islets into patients: transplantation of islet cells alone, using immunosuppression to protect the implanted cells, and implantation of the islet cells inside a novel immunoprotective device. The FDA has cleared our Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for

1

VX-880, the first program (transplantation of islet cells alone), and we expect to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating VX-880 in the first half of 2021.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, and myotonic dystrophy type 1, or DM1. In 2019, we acquired Exonics Therapeutics, Inc., or Exonics, and expanded our collaboration with CRISPR enabling the establishment of preclinical genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1.
We plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and fostering scientific innovation by continuing to identify additional drug candidates through our internal research efforts and investing in business development transactions to access emerging technologies, drugs and drug candidates.

CYSTIC FIBROSIS
Background
CF is a life-shortening genetic disease caused by a defective or missing CFTR protein resulting from mutations in the CFTR gene. To develop CF, children must inherit two defective CFTR genes, which are referred to as alleles; one allele is inherited from each parent. The vast majority of patients with CF carry at least one of the two most prevalent mutations, the F508del mutation and the G551D mutation. The F508del mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the CFTR protein does not reach the surface of the cells in sufficient quantities and does not adequately transport chloride ions. The G551D mutation results in a defect in the CFTR protein in which the defective protein reaches the surface of a cell but does not adequately transport chloride ions across the cell membrane.
The absence of working CFTR proteins results in poor flow of salt and water into and out of cells in a number of organs, including the lungs. As a result, thick, sticky mucus builds up and blocks the passages in many organs, leading to a variety of symptoms. In particular, mucus builds up and clogs the airways in the lungs, causing chronic lung infections and progressive lung damage. CFTR potentiators such as ivacaftor and VX-561 increase the probability that the CFTR protein channels open on the cell surface, increasing the flow of salt and water into and out of the cell. Our CFTR correctors, such as lumacaftor, tezacaftor, and elexacaftor, help CFTR proteins reach the cell surface.

2

Our Medicines
Our medicines, TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO, are collectively approved to treat the majority of people with CF in North America, Europe and Australia. Our approved medicines, including information regarding the indication and age groups for which the medicine is approved, are set forth in the table below.
Product	Scientific Name	Region/Initial Approval	Indication	Eligible Age Group	
vrtx-20201231_g1.jpg
elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor	U.S.
(2019)	
People with CF with (i) at least one F508del mutation, or (ii) another mutation that is responsive to elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor
12 years of age and older	
vrtx-20201231_g2.jpg
elexacaftor/tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor	E.U. (2020)	
People with CF with (i) at least one F508del mutation and one minimal function mutation, or (ii) two F508del mutations
12 years of age and older	
vrtx-20201231_g3.jpg
tezacaftor/ivacaftor and ivacaftor	U.S.
(2018)	
People with CF (i) homozygous for the F508del mutation or (ii) with at least one mutation that is responsive to tezacaftor/ivacaftor

6 years of age and older	
vrtx-20201231_g4.jpg
tezacaftor/ivacaftor	E.U.
(2018)	
People with CF (i) homozygous for the F508del mutation or (ii) with one copy of the F508del mutation and one copy of certain mutations that result in residual CFTR activity
6 years of age and older	
vrtx-20201231_g5.jpg
lumacaftor/ivacaftor	U.S.
(2015)	
People with CF homozygous for the F508del mutation
2 years of age and older	lumacaftor/ivacaftor	E.U.
(2015)	
People with CF homozygous for the F508del mutation
2 years of age and older	
vrtx-20201231_g6.jpg
ivacaftor	U.S.
(2012)	
People with CF with G551D and other specified mutations
4 months of age and older	ivacaftor	E.U.
(2012)	
People with CF with G551D and other specified mutations
4 months of age and older 
In addition to the E.U. and the U.S., we market our products in additional countries, including the United Kingdom, Australia, Switzerland, Israel, and Canada. Currently, our medicines treat almost half of the people with CF in these geographies. We continuously seek to increase the number of patients eligible and able to receive our current medicines through label expansions, approval of new medicines and expanded reimbursement. Since the beginning of 2020, activities in support of these efforts include:
TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO
•In August, the European Commission granted marketing authorization for KAFTRIO to treat people with CF 12 years of age and older with one F508del mutation and one minimal function mutation, or two F508del mutations.
•The FDA expanded the eligibility for TRIKAFTA to include people with CF 12 years of age and older with certain mutations that are responsive to TRIKAFTA based on in vitro data.
•In January 2021, the FDA accepted our supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, for TRIKAFTA for the treatment of children 6 to 11 years of age with at least one F508del mutation or have certain mutations that are responsive to TRIKAFTA based on in vitro data. The FDA granted Priority Review of the sNDA.

3

•Swissmedic, the Swiss Agency for Therapeutic Products, granted marketing authorization and a reimbursement agreement was reached for TRIKAFTA in Switzerland for the treatment of people with CF 12 years of age and older who have two copies of the F508del mutation, or one F508del mutation and one minimal function mutation.
•Health Canada accepted for Priority Review a New Drug Submission for TRIKAFTA for the treatment of people with CF 12 years of age and older.
SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI
•The European Commission approved SYMKEVI for the treatment of people with CF 6 years of age and older with two copies of the F508del mutation, or one F508del mutation and certain residual function mutations.
•The FDA approved SYMDEKO for additional responsive mutations in people with CF 6 years of age and older.
ORKAMBI
•We entered into a reimbursement agreement with the Swiss government for ORKAMBI for the treatment of people with CF 2 years of age and older, and for SYMDEKO for the treatment of people 12 years of age and older in Switzerland.
KALYDECO
•The FDA approved KALYDECO for treatment of infants with CF four months of age and older who have at least one mutation in their CFTR gene that is responsive to KALYDECO.
•The European Commission approved KALYDECO for treatment of infants with CF four months of age and older who have the R117H mutation or certain gating mutations.
•The FDA approved KALYDECO for treatment of infants with CF four months of age and older with additional responsive mutations.
CF PIPELINE
•VX-561, a CFTR potentiator we acquired from Concert Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and VX-121, a CFTR corrector, are being evaluated in Phase 2 clinical development.
•We continue to identify and develop additional CFTR modulators with the goal of achieving carrier levels of CFTR activity for the 90% of people with CF who respond to CFTR modulators.
•We continue to research genetic therapies, such as messenger ribonucleic acid, or mRNA, and gene-editing approaches, to treat the remaining 10% of people who do not make CFTR protein and, as a result, are not eligible for CFTR modulators.
•We extended our collaboration with Moderna, Inc., or Moderna, aimed at the discovery and development of mRNA therapeutics for the treatment of CF. In addition, we entered into a new collaboration with Moderna for the discovery and development of lipid nanoparticles and mRNAs that can deliver gene-editing therapies to lung cells for the treatment of CF.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
We invest in research and development in order to discover and develop transformative medicines for people with serious diseases with a focus on specialty markets. Our strategy is to combine transformative advances in the understanding of human disease and the science of therapeutics in order to discover and develop new medicines. Our approach to drug discovery has been validated through our success in moving novel small molecule drug candidates into clinical trials and obtaining marketing approvals for TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, KALYDECO, ORKAMBI and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI for the treatment of CF and INCIVEK (telaprevir) for the treatment of hepatitis C infection. In addition, we have achieved clinical proof of concept for Nav1.8 inhibition in the treatment of three different pain models, and for gene-editing of BCL11A for the treatment of beta thalassemia and SCD.

4

We continue to research and develop small molecule drug candidates for the treatment of serious diseases, including CF, AAT deficiency, APOL1-mediated kidney diseases, and pain. Our research and development approach includes advancing multiple small molecules into clinical trials, pursuing multiple modalities and evaluating clinical and non-clinical data to inform drug discovery and development, with the goal of bringing best-in-class therapies to patients.
Over the last several years, we have expanded our capabilities to include additional innovative therapeutic approaches with a focus on cell and genetic therapies, which have the potential to treat, and in some cases, cure diseases by addressing the underlying cause of the disease. We have expanded our capabilities by increasing our internal investment in cell and genetic therapies, including plans to establish a new research and development site in Boston that will focus primarily on cell and genetic therapies. In addition, we have made several significant investments in external innovation, including:
•our collaboration with CRISPR to access and develop therapeutics based on the CRISPR gene-editing technology;
•our establishment of cell therapy programs for T1D through our acquisition of Semma;
•our establishment of genetic therapy programs for DMD and DM1, through our acquisition of Exonics;
•our collaboration with Moderna for the discovery and development of lipid nanoparticles and mRNAs that can deliver gene-editing therapies; and
•our collaboration with Affinia Therapeutics, Inc., or Affinia, to engineer novel adeno-associated virus (AAV) capsids to deliver gene therapies.
The experience we gained developing medicines for CF and our analysis of research and development programs conducted by other companies in our industry have shaped a disciplined strategy that guides our investments in research and development and external innovation that focuses on:
•    transformative treatments for life-threatening diseases with a high unmet medical need;
•    targets validated as playing a causal role in the human biology of a disease;
•innovative therapeutic approaches to addressing those targets;
•biological assays and clinical biomarkers that we believe will be predictive of clinical responses; and
•    efficient clinical and regulatory paths to bring new medicines to patients.
To augment our internal programs, we plan to continue acquiring businesses and technologies and collaborating with biopharmaceutical and technology companies, leading academic research institutions, government laboratories, foundations and other organizations to advance research in our areas of therapeutic interest as well as to access technologies needed to execute on our strategy. We have established such relationships with organizations around the world and intend to extend and leverage that experience to further our research efforts to discover transformational medicines for serious diseases. We will continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions and collaborations that may be similar to or different from the transactions that we have engaged in previously.
Small Molecule Programs
Alpha-1 Antitrypsin Deficiency
AAT deficiency is caused by mutations in the SERPINA1 gene that encodes the AAT protein. People who inherit two mutant SERPINA1 alleles (one from each parent) develop AAT deficiency. Most people who develop AAT deficiency have two copies of the mutant Z allele. The mutations result in a defect in the AAT protein in which the protein does not fold correctly. This folding defect causes the AAT protein to accumulate in the liver (where it is produced at high levels), which can cause liver damage. As a result, the protein fails to reach other organs in adequate quantity and function, particularly in the lungs, where its normal role is to protect them from the digestive effects of certain proteases. The unchecked activity of these proteases can cause auto-digestion of lung tissue and may lead to emphysema or chronic pulmonary obstructive disease, and lung infections over time. Currently, there is no cure or treatment that targets the underlying cause of the disease in both the liver and the lung. Available treatments are aimed at transiently increasing levels of AAT in the blood but have no effect

5

in the liver. Patients living with AAT deficiency typically experience recurring hospital visits and a shortened life expectancy.
We seek to develop medicines that treat the underlying cause of AAT deficiency. In the laboratory, we have discovered multiple small molecule correctors that restore folding of the mutant AAT protein, with the potential to affect both the liver and lung diseases caused by AAT deficiency, and we are focused on identifying and developing multiple drug candidates with the potential to correct the misfolded protein. In 2020, we advanced two Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trials evaluating two investigational oral small molecule correctors, VX-814 and VX-864, for the treatment of people with AAT deficiency who have two copies of the Z mutation. In October 2020, we discontinued development of VX-814 based on the safety and pharmacokinetic profile observed in the clinical trial. Enrollment is ongoing in the clinical trial evaluating VX-864, and we expect data from this clinical trial in the first half of 2021. In addition, we continue to discover and develop additional molecules with the potential to correct AAT deficiency.
APOL1-Mediated Kidney Diseases
Inherited mutations in the APOL1 gene play a causal role in the biology of FSGS as well as other kidney diseases. FSGS is a rare disease that attacks the kidney’s filtering units, causing leakage of protein into the urine followed by deterioration in kidney function, scarring, and, ultimately, permanent kidney damage. FSGS is a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome in children and kidney failure in adults. We are evaluating multiple novel small molecules that inhibit the function of APOL1 protein with the potential to treat APOL1-mediated FSGS. In 2020, we initiated a Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial for VX-147, our first investigational oral small molecule medicine for the treatment of FSGS and other serious kidney diseases. Enrollment is ongoing in this Phase 2 clinical trial and we expect data from the trial in 2021.
Pain
Pain can develop from a variety of pathophysiological and psychological conditions. Patients with pain can suffer from acute pain (for example, following surgery or an injury), neuropathic pain (when there is damage to a nerve), and musculoskeletal pain. Current treatments may not work well and can cause significant side effects. In addition, there is the potential for addiction and the practice of over- and mis-utilization, as well as underutilization of current pain medicines.
Vertex has discovered multiple inhibitors of the voltage-gated sodium channel 1.8, or NaV1.8, as potential treatments for pain. Consistent with our research strategy, the Nav1.8 channel is a validated target for pain based both on inherited mutations that cause pain syndromes as well as our own clinical trial data. Specifically, we have obtained positive results from three separate Phase 2 clinical trials evaluating VX-150, a NaV1.8 inhibitor, in patients with three different pain conditions: acute post-surgical, chronic neuropathic and chronic musculoskeletal pain. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on discovering, developing and advancing a portfolio of multiple inhibitors of NaV1.8 as potential treatments for pain.
Cell and Genetic Therapies
Sickle Cell Disease and Beta Thalassemia
SCD and beta thalassemia are hemoglobinopathies, a group of inherited blood disorders that result from gene mutations that alter hemoglobin, a protein in red blood cells that delivers oxygen throughout the body.
SCD is caused by the change of a single amino acid in the hemoglobin gene that causes red cells to change shape in settings of low oxygen. These sickled cells block blood flow and can lead to severe pain, organ damage and shortened life span. Treatment is typically focused on relieving pain and minimizing organ damage, requiring medication and, for some patients, monthly blood transfusions and frequent hospital visits. We believe there are approximately 25,000 patients with severe SCD in the U.S. and E.U.
Beta thalassemia is caused by loss-of-function mutations in hemoglobin that lead to severe anemia in patients, which causes fatigue and shortness of breath. In infants, beta thalassemia causes failure to thrive, jaundice and feeding problems. Complications of beta thalassemia can lead to an enlarged spleen, liver and/or heart, misshapen bones and delayed puberty. Treatment for beta thalassemia varies depending on the disease severity for each patient. Patients with TDT, the most severe form of the disease, require regular blood transfusions, as frequently as every two to four weeks. Repeated blood transfusions eventually cause an unhealthy buildup of iron in the patient, leading to organ damage. We believe that there are approximately 7,000 patients with TDT in the U.S. and E.U.

6

In collaboration with CRISPR, we are co-developing CTX001, an investigational CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy, for the treatment SCD and TDT. Our therapeutic approach involves isolating hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells, or HSPCs, which give rise to red blood cells, from a patient, treating those cells ex vivo with CRISPR/Cas9 in order to modify the erythroid-specific enhancer in the BCL11A gene, and reintroducing the edited cells back into the patient. This approach has the potential to increase levels of fetal hemoglobin in erythrocytes and reduce or eliminate symptoms associated with disease.
We and CRISPR are investigating CTX001 in two Phase 1/2 open-label clinical trials designed to assess the safety and efficacy of a single dose of CTX001 in patients ages 12 to 35 with TDT (CLIMB THAL-111) and severe SCD (CLIMB SCD-121), respectively. Patients enrolled in the clinical trial first undergo a treatment which mobilizes a population of HSPCs from the bone marrow into the bloodstream. Blood cells are collected from the patient’s bloodstream and sent to a manufacturing facility where the HSPCs are purified and CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing is performed. Following manufacturing, the edited cells, now called CTX001, are sent back to the clinical site. Patients are preconditioned with a treatment that ablates their bone marrow prior to infusion of CTX001.
In December 2020, we announced positive interim data from 10 people treated with CTX001 and that 20 people with severe hemoglobinopathies have been dosed with CTX001 in the ongoing Phase 1/2 clinical trials. All seven people with TDT were transfusion independent at last follow-up and all three people with SCD were free of vaso-occlusive crises from CTX001 infusion through the last follow-up. Enrollment and dosing are ongoing, and completion of enrollment for both clinical trials is expected in 2021.
Type 1 Diabetes
T1D is a chronic, metabolic disorder caused by an absence of insulin secretion by the beta cells in the pancreas. In patients with T1D, the person’s own immune system attacks the insulin-producing islet cells of the pancreas, resulting in a complete lack of insulin. While insulin therapy allows patients to live for decades with the disease, challenges of insulin therapy include inadequate control of blood sugar (both hyper- and hypo-glycemia), burden of care on patients and families, and long-term vascular complications.
In 2019, we acquired Semma and established programs to develop cell-based therapies designed to replace insulin-producing islet cells in people with T1D. We are pursuing two programs for the transplant of functional islets into patients: transplantation of islet cells alone, using immunosuppression to protect the implanted cells, and implantation of the islet cells inside an immunoprotective device. The FDA has cleared our IND for VX-880, the first program (transplantation of islet cells alone), and we expect to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating VX-880 in the first half of 2021. This clinical trial will involve an infusion of fully differentiated, functional islet cells, and chronic administration of concomitant immunosuppressive therapy, to protect the islet cells from immune rejection.
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy
DMD and DM1 are inherited diseases that result in the weakening and breakdown of skeletal muscles over time. In 2019, we acquired Exonics and expanded our collaboration with CRISPR establishing preclinical programs to develop gene-editing therapies for DMD and DM1. We are focused on advancing gene-editing therapies aimed at treating the underlying cause of DMD by restoring expression of near-full length dystrophin protein, and in DM1 by addressing the repeat expansion that causes the disease. Our collaboration with Affinia enables access to a novel library of AAV capsids to support our ongoing research and development efforts in genetic therapies, including DMD and DM1.

COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR MEDICINES
Commercial Organization
Our commercial organization focuses on supporting sales of TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI, ORKAMBI and KALYDECO in the markets where these products have been approved. Our sales and marketing organizations are responsible for promoting products to health care providers and obtaining reimbursement for our products from third-party payors, including governmental organizations in the U.S. and ex-U.S. markets.
Our U.S. field-based CF commercial team is comprised of a small number of individuals to support commercialization of our medicines for CF. We focus our CF marketing efforts in the U.S. on a relatively small number of physicians and health

7

care professionals who write most of the prescriptions for CF medicines. Many of these physicians and health care professionals are located at a limited number of accredited centers in the U.S. focused on the treatment of CF. In international markets, we have small sales forces that support KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI and TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO in jurisdictions where these products are approved.
We market our products through personal interactions with physicians and allied health care professionals. In addition, our government affairs and public policy group advocates for policies that promote life sciences innovation and increase awareness of the diseases on which we are focusing with state and federal legislatures, government agencies, public health officials and other policymakers. We also have established programs in the U.S. that provide our products to qualified uninsured or underinsured patients at no charge or at a reduced charge, based on specific eligibility criteria.
Reimbursement
Sales of our products depend, to a large degree, on the extent to which our products will be reimbursed by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed health care organizations. Increasingly, these third-party payors are becoming stricter in the ways they evaluate medical products and services. Additionally, the containment of health care costs has become a priority of federal and state governments, and the prices of drugs have been a focus in this effort. The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit our revenues. Decisions by third-party payors to not cover a product could reduce physician usage of the product.
The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities, which provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutics committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan likely will be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors.
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provided funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. A plan for the research was to be developed by the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes of Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures were to be made to the U.S. Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of our products. In the future, it is possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits of a competitor’s product could adversely affect the sales of our products. If third-party payors do not consider our products to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our products as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis.
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, was enacted in March 2010 and was designed to expand coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall health care costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, among other things, the ACA was designed to expand and increase industry rebates for drugs covered under Medicaid programs, impose an annual fee on branded pharmaceutical manufacturers and make changes to the coverage requirements under the Medicare Part D program.
In Europe and other foreign jurisdictions, the success of our products depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because many patients are unable to access prescription pharmaceutical products that are not

8

reimbursed by their governments. Negotiating reimbursement agreements in foreign countries can delay the commercialization of a pharmaceutical product and can result in a reimbursement price that is lower than the net price that companies can obtain for the product in the U.S.
In some countries, such as Germany, commercial sales of a new product may begin while the reimbursement rate that a company will receive is under discussion. In other countries, a company must complete reimbursement negotiations prior to the commencement of commercial supply of the pharmaceutical product. The requirements governing drug pricing vary widely from country to country. For example, the member states of the E.U. can restrict the range of drugs for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and can control the prices of prescription drugs. In addition, many ex-U.S. government payers require companies to provide health economic assessments of products, which are evaluated by government agencies set up for this purpose. A member state may approve a specific price for the drug or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the total amount of money that a company may receive for supply of a drug. Countries also may consider increasing mandatory discounts in an attempt to manage increased demands on healthcare budgets. Reimbursement for our products cannot be assured. In addition, it is possible that a country may only provide for reimbursement on terms that we do not deem adequate. Additionally, reimbursement discussions in ex-U.S. markets may take a significant period of time.

STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS AND COLLABORATIONS
As part of our business strategy, we seek to license or acquire drugs, drug candidates, businesses and other technologies that have the potential to complement our ongoing research and development efforts. In addition, we establish business relationships with collaborators to support our research activities and to lead or support development and/or commercialization of certain drug candidates. We expect to continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisitions, licenses and collaborations that may be similar or different from the transactions that we have engaged in previously.
Strategic Transactions
Acquisitions
In 2019, we acquired Semma, a privately-held company focused on the use of stem cell-derived human islets as a potentially curative treatment for T1D. Our acquisition of Semma advanced our cell therapy capabilities and supports the development of transformative therapies for T1D. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Semma for approximately $950.0 million in cash.
In 2019, we acquired Exonics, a privately held company focused on creating transformative gene-editing therapies to repair mutations that cause DMD and other severe neuromuscular diseases, including DM1. Our acquisition of Exonics enhanced our gene-editing capabilities and supports the potential development of novel therapies for DMD and DM1. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Exonics for an upfront payment of approximately $245.0 million plus customary working capital adjustments in cash, and certain potential future payments based primarily upon the successful achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones for the DMD and DM1 programs.
Collaboration and Licensing Arrangements
Joint Development and Commercialization Agreement with CRISPR
In December 2017, we entered into a joint development and commercialization agreement, or JDA, with CRISPR pursuant to which we are co-developing and preparing to co-commercialize CTX001 for TDT and SCD. This JDA was entered into following our exercise of an option to co-develop and co-commercialize the hemoglobinopathies program that was contained in the collaboration agreement that we entered into with CRISPR in 2015. The net profits and net losses, as applicable, incurred under the JDA will be shared equally by the parties. Under the JDA, CRISPR will be responsible for commercialization activities in the U.S. and we will be responsible for commercialization activities outside of the U.S. There is a joint committee to provide high-level oversight and decision-making regarding the activities covered by the JDA. The committee contains an equal number of representatives from us and CRISPR.
Either party can terminate the JDA upon the other party’s material breach, subject to specified notice and cure provisions, or, in our case, in the event that CRISPR becomes subject to specified bankruptcy, winding up or similar

9

circumstances. Either party may terminate the JDA in the event the other party commences or participates in any action or proceeding challenging the validity or enforceability of any patent that is licensed to such challenging party pursuant to the JDA. We also have the right to terminate the JDA for convenience at any time after giving prior written notice. If circumstances arise pursuant to which a party would have the right to terminate the JDA on account of an uncured material breach, such party may elect to keep the JDA in effect and cause such breaching party to be treated as if it had exercised its opt-out rights with respect to the products associated with such uncured material breach and the royalties payable to the breaching party would be reduced by a specified percentage.
Either party may opt of out of the development of a product candidate under the JDA after predetermined points in the development of the product candidate, on a candidate-by-candidate basis. In the event of such opt-out, the party opting-out will no longer share in the net profits and net losses associated with such product candidate and, instead, the opting out party will be entitled to high single to mid- teen percentage royalties on the net sales of such product, if commercialized.
In-License Agreements
We have entered into various agreements pursuant to which we have obtained access to technologies from third parties and are conducting research and development activities with collaborators. Pursuant to these arrangements, we have obtained development and commercialization rights to resulting drug candidates. Depending on the terms of the arrangements, we may be responsible for the costs of research activities, required to make upfront payments and/or milestone payments upon the achievement of certain research and development objectives, and/or pay royalties on future sales, if any, of commercial products resulting from the collaboration. Our current in-license agreements include:
•Affinia Therapeutics, Inc. In 2020, we entered into a collaboration with Affinia to gain access to a novel library of AAV capsids to support on our ongoing research and development efforts in genetic therapies, including DMD, DM1 and CF.
•Arbor Biotechnologies, Inc. In 2018, we entered into a collaboration with Arbor Biotechnologies, pursuant to which we are focusing on the discovery of novel proteins, including DNA endonucleases, to advance the development of new gene-editing therapies.
•CRISPR Therapeutics AG. In 2015, we entered into a collaboration with CRISPR for the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using CRISPR-Cas9 gene-editing technology. As described above, we currently are co-developing CTX001 for the treatment of SCD and beta thalassemia and, if successful, have agreed to co-commercialize CTX001. In addition, we have exercised options to exclusively license treatments for specific targets, including CF, that were subject to the research program. In 2019, we obtained exclusive worldwide rights to CRISPR’s intellectual property for DMD and DM1 gene-editing products through a new agreement with CRISPR.
•Kymera Therapeutics, Inc. In 2019, we entered into a collaboration with Kymera Therapeutics for the research and development of small molecule protein degraders. Under the collaboration, Kymera Therapeutics conducts research activities in multiple targets, and upon designation of a clinical development candidate for a target, we have the option to exclusively license molecules against the target.
•Moderna, Inc. In 2016, we entered into a collaboration with Moderna, pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop mRNA therapeutics for the treatment of CF. In 2020, we entered into a new strategic collaboration with Moderna aimed at the discovery and development of lipid nanoparticles and mRNAs that can deliver gene-editing therapies to lung cells for the treatment of CF.
•Skyhawk Therapeutics, Inc. In December 2020, we entered into a collaboration with Skyhawk Therapeutics, for the discovery and development of novel small molecules that modulate RNA splicing for the treatment of serious diseases.
•Other Arrangements. In 2019, we entered into collaborations with Molecular Templates, Inc. and Ribometrix, Inc. In 2018, we entered into agreements with Genomics plc, Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, and X-Chem, Inc. in order to support our research and development efforts.

10

Out-license Agreements
We have entered into various agreements pursuant to which we have out-licensed rights to certain drug candidates to third-party collaborators. Pursuant to these out-license arrangements, our collaborators are responsible for all costs related to the continued development of such drug candidates and obtain development and commercialization rights to these drug candidates. Depending on the terms of the arrangements, our collaborators may be required to make upfront payments, milestone payments upon the achievement of certain research and development objectives and/or pay royalties on future sales, if any, of commercial products licensed under the agreement. Our current out-license agreements include a Strategic Collaboration and License Agreement with Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany, that we entered into in 2017, pursuant to which we granted an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop and commercialize four oncology research and development programs.
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics Incorporated
In 2004, we entered into a collaboration agreement with the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, or CFF, as successor in interest to the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc., to support research and development activities. Pursuant to the collaboration agreement, as amended, we have agreed to pay tiered royalties ranging from single digits to sub-teens on covered compounds first synthesized and/or tested during a research term on or before February 28, 2014, including KALYDECO (ivacaftor), ORKAMBI (lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) and SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI (tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor) and royalties ranging from low-single digits to mid-single digits on potential net sales of certain compounds first synthesized and/or tested between March 1, 2014 and August 31, 2016, including elexacaftor. For combination products, such as ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI and TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO (elexacaftor, tezacaftor, and ivacaftor), sales are allocated equally to each of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in the combination product.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Patents and other proprietary rights such as trademarks, trade secrets, and copyrights are critical to our business. We actively seek protection for our products and proprietary information by means of U.S. and foreign patents, trademarks and copyrights, as appropriate. In addition, we rely upon trade secret protection and contractual arrangements to protect certain of our proprietary information and products.
Patents provide a period of exclusivity that can make it more difficult for competitors to market and use our technology. We own patents and pending patent applications that relate to compounds, formulations, treatment of diseases, synthetic routes, intermediates and other inventions.
To protect our intellectual property, we typically apply for patents several years before a product receives marketing approval. Under current law, a patent expires 20 years from its first effective filing date. Since the drug development process may last for many years, there may be a period of time in which we have an issued patent but not marketing approval to sell the drug. To compensate for patent term lost while a product is in clinical trials and undergoing review for marketing approval, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions or supplementary protection certificates in some countries. In addition to patent protection, we have regulatory exclusivity from U.S. and European regulatory agencies for the active pharmaceutical agents and, where applicable, their approved orphan indications for a certain time period. Regulatory exclusivity runs concurrently with patent exclusivity and provides complementary protection.
We own or hold exclusive licenses to several hundred patents in the U.S. Upon approval of an NDA or a supplement thereto, NDA sponsors are required to list with the FDA each patent with claims that cover the applicant’s product or a method of using the product. Each of the patents listed by the NDA sponsor is published in the FDA’s Orange Book. We have ten issued U.S. patents listed in the Orange Book that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in KALYDECO, its marketed formulations, and/or its approved indication. We have 19 issued U.S. patents listed in the Orange Book that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in ORKAMBI, its marketed formulations, and/or its approved indication. We have 21 issued U.S. patents listed in the Orange Book that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in SYMDEKO, its marketed formulation, and/or its approved indication. We have 21 issued U.S. patents listed in the Orange Book that cover the active pharmaceutical ingredients in TRIKAFTA, its marketed formulation, and/or its approved indication.
The table below sets forth the year of projected expiration for the basic product patents covering each of our approved products. For products that are combinations of two or more active ingredients, the table lists the projected expiration of the

11

latest expiring patent covering any of the active pharmaceutical ingredients (lumacaftor for ORKAMBI, tezacaftor for SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI and elexacaftor for TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO). Patent term extensions, supplementary protection certificates, and pediatric exclusivity periods are not reflected in the expiration dates listed in the table below and may extend protection. In some instances, we also own later-expiring patents and applications relating to solid forms, formulations, methods of manufacture, or the use of these drugs in the treatment of particular diseases or conditions. In some cases, however, such patents may not protect our drug from generic competition after the expiration of the basic patent.
Product	Projected Expiration of U.S. Patent	Projected Status of European Patent	KALYDECO	2027	
 2025 1
ORKAMBI	2030	
2026 2
SYMDEKO/SYMKEVI	2027	
2028 3
TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO	2037	2037 
1 Certain European countries have granted supplementary protection certificates for KALYDECO, which expire in 2027.
2 Certain European countries have granted supplementary protection certificates for ORKAMBI, which expire in 2030.
3 Certain European countries have granted supplementary protection certificates for SYMKEVI, which expire in 2033.
In addition to protecting our marketed products, we actively monitor and file patent applications in the U.S. and in foreign countries on inventions relating to our pipeline. For example, we also own U.S. and foreign patents and/or we have patent applications relating to the following:
•CTX001 and other potential gene-editing approaches for treating hemoglobinopathies.
•VX-864 and other compounds being studied for the potential treatment of AAT deficiency.
•VX-147 and other compounds being studied for the potential treatment of APOL1-mediated kidney diseases.
•CF potentiators and correctors and many other related compounds, and the use of those compounds to treat CF.
•Other pre-clinical and clinical candidates and the use of such candidates to treat specified diseases.
•The manufacture, pharmaceutical compositions, related solid forms, formulations, dosing regimens and methods of use of many of the above compounds.
We and CRISPR intend to rely upon a combination of rights, including patent rights, trade secret protection, and regulatory exclusivities to protect CTX001. CRISPR has licensed certain rights to a worldwide patent portfolio that covers various aspects of the CRISPR/Cas9 editing platform technology including, for example, compositions of matter and methods of use, including their use in targeting or cutting DNA from Dr. Charpentier. In addition to Dr. Charpentier, this patent portfolio has named inventors who assigned their rights to the Regents of the University of California or the University of Vienna, to whom we refer, together with Dr. Charpentier, as the CVC Group. CRISPR has non-exclusive or co-exclusive rights to the patent rights that protect the core CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing technology. For example, certain third parties, including competitors, have reported obtaining a license to rights in this patent portfolio in certain fields. In addition, patents and patent applications in this patent portfolio are the subject of proceedings in the U.S., Europe, and other jurisdictions, including proceedings between the CVC and the Broad Institute in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. To date, both the CVC and the Broad have obtained granted patents that purport to cover aspects of CRISPR/Cas9 editing platform technology. The patents and patent applications within the CVC patent portfolio and the Broad patent portfolio are, or may in the future be, involved in proceedings similar to interferences or priority disputes in Europe or other foreign jurisdictions. In addition to the patent portfolio licensed from Dr. Charpentier, we own patent applications relating to the composition, manufacture, and use of CTX001.
From time to time we enter into exclusive and non-exclusive license agreements for proprietary third-party technology used in connection with our research activities. These license agreements typically provide for the payment by us of a license fee but may also include terms providing for milestone payments or royalties for the development and/or commercialization of our drug products arising from the related research.
We cannot be certain that issued patents we own or license will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. The existence of patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Litigation, interferences, oppositions, inter partes reviews,

12

administrative challenges or other similar types of proceedings may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain patents, regulatory exclusivities or other proprietary rights, and in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of intellectual property rights that may be claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products.

MANUFACTURING
As we market and sell our approved products and advance our drug candidates through clinical development toward commercialization, we continue to build and maintain our supply chain and quality assurance resources. We rely on internal capabilities and a global network of third parties to manufacture and distribute our products for commercial sale and post-approval clinical trials and to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials. In addition to establishing supply chains for each new approved product, we need to adapt our supply chain for existing products to include additional formulations that are often required in order to treat younger patients or to increase scale of production for existing products. We are focused on ensuring the stability of the supply chains for our current products, including TRIKAFTA/KAFTRIO, and for our pipeline programs. In addition, we are focused on identifying and ensuring the optimal manufacturing and delivery requirements for the cell and genetic therapies we are developing.
We expect that we will continue to rely on third parties to meet our commercial supply needs and a significant portion of our clinical supply needs for the foreseeable future. We have established our own small-scale manufacturing capabilities in Boston, which we use for clinical trial and commercial supplies, and are evaluating additional manufacturing capacity for our current and future products. 
Our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step global endeavor. In general, these raw materials are available from multiple sources. Third-party contract manufacturers, including some in China, perform different parts of our manufacturing process. Contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form. In addition, third parties assist us with packaging, warehousing and distribution of products.
Establishing and managing this global supply chain for each of our drugs and drug candidates requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. To ensure the stability of our supply chains, we aim to develop alternatives for each step of our manufacturing process at the time of, or shortly after, marketing approval. Therefore, at any point in time, we may have a limited number of single source manufacturers for certain steps in our manufacturing processes, particularly for recently launched products.
In order to manufacture our commercial products, we utilize both continuous manufacturing technology as well as batch manufacturing processes. While continuous process manufacturing has been used in many industries, we believe that we are the first company to obtain FDA approval for a fully-continuous drug product manufacturing process.
We have developed systems and processes to track, monitor and oversee our third-party manufacturers’ activities, including a quality assurance program intended to ensure that our third-party manufacturers comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP. We regularly evaluate the performance of our third-party manufacturers with the objective of confirming their continuing capabilities to meet our needs efficiently and economically. Manufacturing facilities, both foreign and domestic, are subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and other U.S. and foreign government authorities.
The manufacturing processes for cell and genetic therapies are more complex than those required for small molecule drugs and require different systems, equipment, facilities and expertise. Additionally, we are unable to rely on a single process for all of our cell and genetic therapies; they must be customized for each program and therapy. Although we have been building expertise in these areas, which was augmented through our acquisitions of Exonics and Semma, we will need to continue to expand and strengthen our manufacturing infrastructure and capabilities, independently and/or through a third-party network, to successfully develop and commercialize cell and genetic therapies. We are focused on evaluating and securing potential relationships with various third parties that would enable us to expand and strengthen such capabilities to support our current and future cell and genetic therapy programs. We expect to make significant investment in our manufacturing capabilities and partnerships for our genetic and cell-based therapy programs in order to continue to advance and, in the future, commercialize these programs.

13

We and CRISPR rely on third-party manufacturers to produce or process cell culture reagents, gene-editing components, such as Cas9 protein and guide RNA molecules, and to generate gene-edited cells to supply CTX001 for clinical trials. If approved, we expect to continue to rely on third-party manufacturers for commercial supply of CTX001. The current manufacturing process for CTX001 involves a number of steps prior to the final infusion of drug product into patients. Following mobilization and collection of blood cells from the patient at the clinical site, cells are transferred to a manufacturing site where HSPCs are purified and CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing is performed. The edited cellular product, called CTX001, is frozen and transported back to the clinical site where it is stored prior to infusion into the patient. Each step must be completed successfully, and in a timely manner, requiring coordination between CRISPR, Vertex, clinical sites, third-party manufacturers and shipping vendors. To increase production to commercial levels, Vertex and CRISPR will need to coordinate manufacturing and logistics activities at a larger scale across multiple facilities in the geographies in which CTX001 is approved. Approval will rely on inspection and approval of these facilities by global health authorities.

COMPETITION
The pharmaceutical industry is characterized by extensive research efforts, rapid technological progress and intense competition. There are many public and private companies, including pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, engaged in developing products for the indications our drugs are approved to treat and the therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities. Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and gene therapy industries may result in a larger concentration of resources among a smaller number of our competitors. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and human resources than we do.
We believe that competition in our industry is based on, among other factors, innovative research, the effective and rapid development of drug candidates, the ability to market and obtain reimbursement for products and the ability to establish effective patent protection. We face competition based on the safety and efficacy of our product and drug candidates, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability and cost of supply, marketing and sales capabilities, reimbursement coverage, price, patent protection and other factors. Our competitors may develop or commercialize more effective, safer or more affordable products than we are able to develop or commercialize or obtain more effective patent protection. As a result, our competitors may commercialize products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which would adversely affect our competitive position, the likelihood that our drug candidates, if approved, would achieve and maintain market acceptance and our ability to generate meaningful revenues from our products. Future competitive products may render our products, or future products, obsolete or noncompetitive. Another key element of remaining competitive in our industry is recruiting and retaining leading scientific, technical and management personnel to conduct our research activities and advance our development programs, including with the commercial expertise to effectively market our products.
Cystic Fibrosis
A number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of CF, including CFTR modulators and other therapies intended to address the underlying causes of CF.
AbbVie, Inc., or AbbVie, has indicated that it plans to develop a triple combination CFTR modulator therapy comprised of a potentiator and correctors. Currently, AbbVie is evaluating the combination of a potentiator and a corrector in a Phase 2 clinical trial. In March 2020, AbbVie disclosed plans to file an IND application with the FDA for another corrector in the second quarter of 2020. In addition, Proteostasis Therapeutics, Inc. was developing potential CFTR modulator therapies prior to its acquisition by Yumanity Therapeutics, Inc., or Yumanity. Following the merger, Yumanity has announced plans to divest its CF program.
Other therapeutic approaches include addressing CF utilizing nucleic acid therapies and read-through agents, which are compounds that allow expression of a full-length protein. Nucleic acid therapies are under development by companies such as Translate Bio, Arcturus Therapeutics Holdings, Inc., Krystal Biotech, Inc., Spirovant Sciences, Inc. and 4D Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. Translate Bio is evaluating its mRNA therapy in a proof of concept Phase 1/2 clinical trial. Eloxx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is evaluating a read-through therapy for nonsense CFTR mutations in two Phase 2 clinical trials.

14

Our success in rapidly developing and commercializing our products may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for CF. If one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for people with CF, our revenues from our current products and/or additional CF products, if then approved, could face significant competitive pressure.
Pipeline
In recent years, we have committed significant research resources to, and made significant investments in, our pipeline of potential new therapies for AAT deficiency, APOL1-mediated kidney diseases, TDT, SCD, muscular dystrophies, T1D and other diseases. We plan to continue investing in our pipeline, including expanding beyond small molecule therapies and into the discovery and development of cell and gene therapies. For example, we remain focused on our ongoing evaluation of CTX001, an investigational CRISPR/Cas9-based gene-editing therapy, for treatment of SCD and TDT currently in clinical development.
There are multiple approved treatments for TDT and SCD, including products from Novartis International AG, or Novartis, Global Blood Therapeutics, Inc. and Bristol Myers Squibb together with Acceleron Pharma, Inc. Bluebird Bio, Inc., or Bluebird, has a gene therapy, Zynteglo (Lentiglobin), approved by the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, for the treatment of certain TDT genotypes and in clinical development for SCD. In addition, various companies and private academic/medical institutes are developing gene therapy or gene-editing candidates for the treatment of SCD or TDT utilizing CRISPR technology, lenti-viral vectors, zinc finger nuclease technology, or base editing.
Many other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are also investing resources for discovery and development of small molecules, gene therapies and cell therapies to treat the same diseases for which we are developing therapies. If any of these competitors develop or successfully commercialize products involving therapies competitive with our pipeline therapies, the potential return on our investment in those pipeline therapies could be impacted.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION
Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the U.S., the E.U. and other countries. In the U.S., the E.U. and other countries, drugs are subject to rigorous regulations governing the testing, manufacture, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming. The regulatory requirements applicable to drug development, approval, and marketing are subject to change. In addition, regulations and administrative guidance often are revised or reinterpreted by the agencies in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA or comparable ex-U.S. regulations, guidance or interpretations will change.
United States Government Regulation
New Drug Application Approval Processes
The process required by the FDA before a drug may be marketed in the U.S. generally involves the following:
•    completion of preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies conducted according to Good Laboratory Practices, or GLP, and other applicable regulations;
•    submission to the FDA of an IND application, which must become effective before clinical trials in the U.S. may begin;
•    performance of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials according to Good Clinical Practices, or GCP, to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug for its intended use;
•    submission to the FDA of a New Drug Application, or an NDA;
•    satisfactory completion of an FDA inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the product will be produced to assess compliance with cGMP; and
•    FDA review and approval of the NDA.

15

Once a drug candidate is identified for development, it enters the preclinical testing stage. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal pharmacology and toxicology studies. An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and analytical data, to the FDA as part of the IND, which seeks FDA approval to test the drug candidate in humans. Preclinical or nonclinical testing typically continues even after the IND is submitted.
If the FDA accepts the IND, the drug candidate can then be studied in human clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective. These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable regulation, are as follows:
•    Phase 1. The drug initially is introduced into healthy human subjects and tested for safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and elimination. In the case of some drug candidates for severe or life-threatening diseases, such as cancer, especially when the drug candidate may be inherently too toxic to ethically administer to healthy volunteers, the initial human testing is often conducted in patients.
•    Phase 2. Clinical trials are initiated in a limited patient population intended to identify possible adverse effects and safety risks, to preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of the drug candidate for specific targeted diseases and to determine dosage tolerance and optimal dosage.
•    Phase 3. Clinical trials are undertaken to further evaluate dosage, clinical efficacy and safety in an expanded patient population at geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk-benefit ratio of the drug candidate and provide an adequate basis for regulatory approval and product labeling.
Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 testing may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time for a variety of reasons, including a finding that the healthy volunteers or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. All clinical trials must be conducted under the supervision of one or more qualified investigators in accordance with GCP. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and more frequently in other situations, including the occurrence of serious adverse events. Information about certain clinical trials must be submitted within specific timeframes to the National Institutes of Health for public dissemination on the www.clinicaltrials.gov website.
The results of drug development, preclinical studies and clinical trials, along with descriptions of the manufacturing process, analytical tests conducted on the chemistry of the drug candidate, proposed labeling and other relevant information are submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug candidate. The FDA reviews each NDA submitted to ensure that it is sufficiently complete for substantive review before it accepts it for filing. It may request additional information rather than accept an NDA for filing.
Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug candidate is safe and effective for its intended use and whether its manufacturing is cGMP-compliant to assure and preserve the drug candidate’s identity, strength, quality and purity. The FDA may refer the NDA to an advisory committee for review and recommendation as to whether the NDA should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendation of an advisory committee, but it generally follows such recommendations. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will inspect the facility or facilities where the drug candidate is manufactured and tested. Additionally, before approving an NDA, the FDA may inspect one or more clinical trial sites to assure compliance with GCP requirements.
The FDA may require, as a condition of approval, restricted distribution and use, enhanced labeling, special packaging or labeling, expedited reporting of certain adverse events, pre-approval of promotional materials, restrictions on direct-to-consumer advertising or commitments to conduct additional research post-approval. The FDA will issue a complete response letter if the agency decides not to approve the NDA in its present form.
Biologics License Application Process
Certain of our drug candidates may be regulated by the FDA under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and the Public Health Service Act as biologics. Biologics can present special safety, efficacy and manufacturing challenges that may differ from those present in the regulation of small molecule drugs. As such, while similar to the NDA review process described above, in lieu of filing an NDA, biologics require the submission of a Biologics License Application, or BLA, and approval of such BLA by the FDA prior to being marketed in the U.S.

16

Expedited Review and Approval
The FDA has developed a number of distinct approaches to make new drugs available as rapidly as possible in cases where there is no available treatment or there are advantages over existing treatments.
The FDA may grant “accelerated approval” to products that have been studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments. For accelerated approval, the product must have an effect on a surrogate endpoint or an intermediate clinical endpoint that is considered reasonably likely to predict the clinical benefit of a drug, such as an effect on irreversible morbidity and mortality. When approval is based on surrogate endpoints or clinical endpoints other than survival or morbidity, the sponsor will be required to conduct additional post-approval clinical studies to verify and describe the clinical benefit. These studies are known as “confirmatory trials.” Approval of a drug may be withdrawn, or the labeled indication of the drug changed if these trials fail to verify clinical benefit or do not demonstrate sufficient clinical benefit to justify the risks associated with the drug.
The FDA may grant “fast track” status to products that treat serious diseases or conditions and demonstrate the potential to address an unmet medical need. Fast track is a process designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of such products by providing, among other things, more frequent meetings with the FDA to discuss the product’s development plan and rolling review, which allows submission of individually completed sections of an NDA or BLA for FDA review before the entire submission is completed. Fast track status does not ensure that a product will be developed more quickly or receive FDA approval.
“Breakthrough Therapy” designation is a process designed to expedite the development and review of drugs that are intended to treat a serious condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. For drugs and biologics that have been designated as Breakthrough Therapies, robust FDA-sponsor interaction and communication can help to identify the most efficient and expeditious path for clinical development while minimizing the number of patients placed in ineffective control regimens.
“Regenerative Medicine Advanced Therapy,” or RMAT, designation is a process created by the 21st Century Cures Act in December 2016. A product is eligible for RMAT designation if it is a regenerative medicine therapy that is intended to treat, modify, reverse or cure a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product has the potential to address unmet medical needs for such disease or condition. The benefits of RMAT designation include the benefits available to breakthrough therapies, including potential eligibility for priority review and accelerated approval based on surrogate or intermediate endpoints.
The FDA may grant “priority review” status to products that, if approved, would provide significant improvement in the safety or effectiveness of the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of serious conditions. Priority review is intended to reduce the time it takes for the FDA to review an NDA or BLA, with the goal to take action on the application within six months from when the application is filed, compared to ten months for a standard review.
Manufacturing Quality Control
Among the conditions for NDA or BLA approval is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer’s quality control and manufacturing procedures continually conform with cGMP. In complying with cGMP, manufacturers must devote substantial time, money and effort in the areas of production, quality control and quality assurance to maintain compliance. Material changes in manufacturing equipment, location or process, may result in additional regulatory review and approval. The FDA, and other regulatory agencies, conduct periodic visits to inspect equipment, facilities, and processes following the initial approval of a product. If a manufacturing facility is not in substantial compliance with the applicable regulations and requirements imposed when the product was approved, regulatory enforcement action may be taken, which may include a warning letter or an injunction against shipment of products from the facility and/or recall of products previously shipped. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of our products. Future FDA, state, and foreign inspections may identify compliance issues at the facilities of our contract manufacturers that may disrupt manufacture or distribution of our products or require substantial resources to correct.

17

Post-approval Requirements
Once an approval is granted, the FDA may withdraw the approval if compliance with regulatory standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product or complete withdrawal of the product from the market. In addition, under the FDCA the sponsor of an approved drug in the U.S. may not promote that drug for unapproved, or off-label, uses, although a physician may prescribe a drug for an off-label use in accordance with the practice of medicine. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes and additional labeling claims, are subject to further FDA review and approval. In addition, the FDA may require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the effect of approved products that have been commercialized, and the FDA has the power to prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of these post-marketing programs.
Products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things:
•    record-keeping requirements;
•    reporting of adverse experiences with the product;
•    providing the FDA with updated safety and efficacy information;
•    drug sampling and distribution requirements;
•    notifying the FDA and gaining its approval of specified manufacturing or labeling changes;
•    complying with certain electronic records and signature requirements; and
•    complying with FDA promotion and advertising requirements.
Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the drug development process, approval process or after approval, may subject us or our collaborators to administrative or judicial sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. These sanctions could include:
•    refusal to approve or delay in review of pending applications;
•    withdrawal of an approval or the implementation of limitations on a previously approved indication for use;
•    imposition of a clinical hold, a risk mitigation and evaluation strategy or other safety-related limitations;
•    warning letters or “untitled letters”;
•    product seizures;
•    total or partial suspension of production or distribution; or
•    injunctions, fines, disgorgement, refusals of government contracts, or civil or criminal penalties.
Patent Term Restoration and Regulatory Exclusivity
Upon approval, products may be entitled to certain kinds of exclusivity under applicable intellectual property and regulatory regimes. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act) permits a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. The length of the patent extension is roughly based on 50 percent of the period of time from the filing of an IND for a compound to the submission of the NDA for such compound, plus 100 percent of the time period from NDA submission to regulatory approval. The extension, however, cannot exceed five years and the patent term remaining after regulatory approval cannot exceed 14 years.
If the FDA approves a drug product that contains an active ingredient not previously approved, the product is typically entitled to five years of non-patent regulatory exclusivity. Other products may be entitled to three years of exclusivity if approval was based on the FDA’s reliance on new clinical studies essential to approval submitted by the NDA applicant. If

18

the NDA applicant studies the product for use by children, the FDA may grant pediatric exclusivity, which extends by 180 days each existing exclusivity (patent and regulatory) related to the product.
Biologics are also entitled to exclusivity under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, which was passed as Title VII to the ACA. The law provides a pathway for approval of biosimilars following the expiration of 12 years of exclusivity for the innovator biologic and a potential additional 180 day-extension term for conducting pediatric studies. Biologics are also eligible for orphan drug exclusivity, as discussed below. The law also includes an extensive process for the innovator biologic and biosimilar manufacturer to litigate patent infringement, validity, and enforceability prior to the approval of the biosimilar. There have been ongoing federal legislative and administrative efforts as well as judicial challenges seeking to repeal, modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the ACA. While none of those efforts have focused on changes to the provisions of the ACA related to the biosimilar regulatory framework, if the ACA is repealed, substantially modified, or invalidated, it is unclear what, if any, impact such action would have on biosimilar regulation.
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan drug designation to drug candidates intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 people in the U.S.
If a drug candidate that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for that drug for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years following marketing approval, except in certain very limited circumstances, such as if the later product is shown to be clinically superior to the orphan product. Orphan drug exclusivity, however, also could block the approval of our drug candidates for seven years if a competitor first obtains approval of the same product as defined by the FDA or if our drug candidate is determined to be contained within the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. KALYDECO, ORKAMBI, SYMDEKO, and TRIKAFTA have been granted orphan drug exclusivity by the FDA.
Foreign Regulation
We conduct clinical trials and market our products in numerous jurisdictions outside the U.S. Most of these jurisdictions have clinical trial, product approval and post-approval regulatory processes that are similar in principle to those in the U.S. Thus, whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a drug candidate, we must obtain approval by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries or economic areas, such as the E.U., before we can commence clinical trials or market products in those countries or areas. The approval process and requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from place to place, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval.
Under E.U. regulatory systems, a company may submit marketing authorization applications either under a centralized or decentralized procedure. The centralized procedure, which is compulsory for medicines produced by biotechnology or those medicines intended to treat AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, or diabetes and optional for those medicines that are highly innovative, provides for the grant of a single marketing authorization that is valid for all E.U. member states. In addition to the centralized procedure, Europe also has a nationalized procedure, which requires a separate application to and approval determination by each country; a decentralized procedure, whereby applicants submit identical applications to several countries and receive simultaneous approval; and a mutual recognition procedure, where applicants submit an application to one country for review and other countries may accept or reject the initial decision.
Other Regulations
Pharmaceutical companies are also subject to various laws pertaining to healthcare “fraud and abuse,” including anti-kickback and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws generally make it illegal to knowingly and willfully solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in return for or to induce the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug that is reimbursed by a state or federal health care program. False claims laws prohibit knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payors (including Medicare and Medicaid), any claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as by the possibility of exclusion from federal healthcare programs (including Medicare and Medicaid). Liability under the false claims laws may also arise when a violation of certain laws or regulations related to the underlying products (e.g., violations regarding improper promotional activity or unlawful

19

payments) contributes to the submission of a false claim. If we were subject to allegations concerning, or convicted of violating, these laws, our business could be harmed.
Laws and regulations also have been enacted by the federal government and various states to regulate the sales and marketing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers. The laws and regulations generally limit financial interactions between manufacturers and health care providers, require manufacturers to adopt certain compliance standards or require disclosure to the government and public of such interactions. The laws include U.S. federal and state “sunshine” provisions. The federal sunshine provisions apply to pharmaceutical manufacturers with products reimbursed under certain government programs and require those manufacturers to disclose annually to the federal government (for re-disclosure to the public) certain payments and other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals and, beginning with disclosures in 2022, to certain non-physician practitioners. State laws may also require disclosure of pharmaceutical pricing information and marketing expenditures. Many of these laws and regulations contain requirements that are subject to interpretation. Outside the U.S., other countries have implemented requirements for disclosure of financial interactions with healthcare providers and additional countries may consider or implement such laws.
We are subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern our international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from paying, offering to pay, promising, or authorizing the payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party, or political candidate for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or to otherwise obtain favorable treatment or influence a person working in an official capacity. In many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the FCPA’s definition of a foreign government official. We are also subject to U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or the Bribery Act, which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the United Kingdom, or U.K., generally will be subject to the Bribery Act.
We are subject to federal laws, including the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, that require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report certain calculated product prices to the government or provide certain discounts or rebates to government authorities or private entities, often as a condition of reimbursement under government healthcare programs.
Our collection and use of personal data as part of our business activities is subject to various privacy and data security laws and regulations, including oversight by various regulatory or other governmental bodies, in the U.S., E.U., U.K., Canada, Australia and other jurisdictions. Such laws and regulations have the potential to affect our business materially, continue to evolve and increasingly are being enforced.
Our present and future business has been and will continue to be subject to various other laws and regulations. Various laws, regulations and recommendations relating to safe working conditions, laboratory practices, the experimental use of animals, and the purchase, storage, movement, import, export and use and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances are or may be applicable to our activities. In addition, as we expand our pipeline and contemplate different approaches that may incorporate the use of medical devices, such approaches may necessitate compliance with regulatory laws applicable to medical devices, including those governing the testing, manufacture, approval, distribution, and marketing of medical devices. Furthermore, the extent of government regulation, which might result from future legislation or administrative action, cannot accurately be predicted.
We have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and through the promotion of a culture of compliance. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to maintain, administer and expand the compliance program globally. We cannot be certain, however, that our compliance program will ensure compliance with the various complex laws and regulations to which we are subject now or in the future.


20

EMPLOYEES AND HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 3,400 employees. Of these employees, approximately 2,800 were based in the U.S. and approximately 600 were based outside the U.S. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, except for a small number of employees outside the U.S. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. We continue to face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry and from universities and research institutions.
We rely on skilled, experienced, and innovative employees to conduct the operations of our company. The biotechnology industry is very competitive and recruiting and retaining such employees is important to the continued success of our business. We are committed to building an outstanding, committed and passionate team at Vertex, and we focus on a culture that values inclusion, diversity and equity. We believe that each employee brings unique perspectives and strengths, and by embracing these strengths, we can do our best work for patients. We focus on recruiting, retaining, and developing employees from a diverse range of backgrounds to conduct our research, development, and commercial activities.
Our commitment to diversity, inclusion and equity begins with our executive management team: four of our ten members are women and/or from diverse racial and ethnic groups. On our Board of Directors, six of our ten members are women and/or from a diverse racial and ethnic group. As of December 31, 2020, women represented 53% of our global workforce and 38% of our leadership (VP and above). As of December 31, 2020, 34% of our U.S. workforce, and 18% of our U.S. leadership (VP and above), were from diverse racial and ethnic groups.
The leader of our diversity, inclusion, and equity strategy and efforts is a Vice President in our human resources group. Additionally, our employee resource networks promote connectivity and collaboration across levels and functions, and engage colleagues in personal and professional development opportunities, including mentoring, community outreach, and cultural awareness activities.
To promote our employees’ continued well-being and development, we offer a variety of inclusive benefits and opportunities. We offer comprehensive work-life benefits, including health, dental, and income protection, such as life insurance and retirement savings programs. In 2020, we enhanced and expanded our employee benefits in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, we increased company-wide personal time off, provided resources to enable employees to work from home, and introduced and expanded mental wellness tools for all employees. Our management has continued to assess and respond to the evolving needs of our workforce throughout the pandemic.
In addition, we provide our employees with career development and advancement opportunities, including job rotations, mentoring and managerial training. We also are committed to identifying and developing our next generation leaders and have developed programs focused on talent and succession for critical roles in our organization.
Succession Planning
In 2020, we successfully executed a leadership succession plan with the transition of Dr. Kewalramani to the role of Chief Executive Officer and our former Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Leiden, to the role of Executive Chairman. This transition was the culmination of a multi-year planning process led by our independent directors.

OTHER MATTERS
Financial Information and Significant Customers
The Company operates in one segment, pharmaceuticals. Financial information about our revenue by product and significant customers is set forth in Note Q, “Segment Information,” to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Information Available on the Internet
Our internet address is www.vrtx.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, are available to you free of charge through the “Investors-SEC Filings” section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after those materials have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.

21

Corporate Information
Vertex was incorporated in Massachusetts in 1989, and our principal executive offices are located at 50 Northern Avenue Boston, Massachusetts 02210.


22

INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
The names, ages and positions held by our executive officers are as follows:
Name
Age
Position
Reshma Kewalramani, M.D.	48	Chief Executive Officer and President	Jeffrey M. Leiden, M.D., Ph.D.	65	Executive Chairman	David Altshuler, M.D., Ph.D.	56	Executive Vice President, Global Research and Chief Scientific Officer	Stuart A. Arbuckle	55	Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer	Carmen Bozic, M.D.	58	Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development and Medical Affairs, and Chief Medical Officer	Michael Parini, J.D.	46	Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative, Legal and Business Development Officer	Amit K. Sachdev, J.D.	53	Executive Vice President, Chief Patient Officer	Bastiano Sanna, Ph.D.	46	Executive Vice President, Chief of Cell and Genetic Therapies	Ourania “Nia” Tatsis, Ph.D.	51	Executive Vice President and Chief Regulatory and Quality Officer	Charles F. Wagner, Jr.	52	Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer	Paul M. Silva	54	Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 
Dr. Kewalramani has been our Chief Executive Officer and President since April 2020 and a member of our Board of Directors since February 2020. Dr. Kewalramani was our Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer from April 2018 through April 2020. She was our Senior Vice President, Late Development from February 2017 until April 2018. From August 2004 to January 2017, she served in roles of increasing responsibility at Amgen Inc., most recently as Vice President, Global Clinical Development, Nephrology & Metabolic Therapeutic Area and as Vice President, U.S. Medical Organization. From 2014 through 2019, Dr. Kewalramani was the industry representative to the FDA’s Endocrine and Metabolic Drug Advisory Committee. She completed her internship and residency in Internal Medicine at the Massachusetts General Hospital and her fellowship in Nephrology at the Massachusetts General Hospital and Brigham and Women’s Hospital combined program. Dr. Kewalramani holds a B.A. from Boston University and an M.D. from Boston University School of Medicine. Dr. Kewalramani also completed the General Management Program at Harvard Business School and is an alumnus of the school.
Dr. Leiden became our Executive Chairman in April 2020. He was our Chief Executive Officer and President from 2012 through March 2020. He has been a member of our Board of Directors since July 2009, the Chairman of our Board of Directors since May 2012, and served as our lead independent director from October 2010 through December 2011. Dr. Leiden was a Managing Director at Clarus Ventures, a life sciences venture capital firm, from 2006 through January 2012. Dr. Leiden was President and Chief Operating Officer of Abbott Laboratories, Pharmaceuticals Products Group, and a member of the Board of Directors of Abbott Laboratories from 2001 to 2006. From 1987 to 2000, Dr. Leiden held several academic appointments, including the Rawson Professor of Medicine and Pathology and Chief of Cardiology and Director of the Cardiovascular Research Institute at the University of Chicago, the Elkan R. Blout Professor of Biological Sciences at the Harvard School of Public Health, and Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He is an elected member of both the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Leiden serves as a director of Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, an insurance company. Dr. Leiden was a director and the non-executive Vice Chairman of the board of Shire plc, a specialty biopharmaceutical company, from 2006 to January 2012 and a director of Quest Diagnostics, a medical diagnostics company, from December 2014 to May 2019. Dr. Leiden received his M.D., Ph.D. and B.A. degrees from the University of Chicago.
Dr. Altshuler has been our Executive Vice President, Global Research and Chief Scientific Officer since January 2015 and was a member of our Board of Directors from May 2012 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler was one of four founding members of the Broad Institute, a research collaboration of Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The Whitehead Institute and the Harvard Hospitals. He served as the Director of the Institute’s Program in Medical and Population Genetics from 2003 through December 2014 and as the Institute’s Deputy Director and Chief Academic Officer from 2009 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler joined the faculty at Harvard Medical School and the Massachusetts General Hospital in 2000 and held the academic rank of Professor of Genetics and Medicine from 2008 through December 2014. He served as Adjunct Professor of Biology at MIT from 2012 through December 2014. Dr. Altshuler earned a B.S. from MIT, a Ph.D. from Harvard University and an M.D. from Harvard Medical School. Dr. Altshuler completed his clinical training in Internal Medicine, and in Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, at the Massachusetts General Hospital.

23

Mr. Arbuckle is our Executive Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer, a position he has held since September 2012. Prior to joining us, Mr. Arbuckle held multiple commercial leadership roles at Amgen, Inc. from July 2004 through August 2012. Mr. Arbuckle has worked in the biopharmaceuticals industry since 1986, including more than 15 years at GlaxoSmithKline plc, where he held sales and marketing roles of increasing responsibility for medicines aimed at treating respiratory, metabolic, musculoskeletal, cardiovascular and other diseases. He served as a member of the Board of Directors of Cerulean Pharma, Inc. from June 2015 through July 2017 and has served as a member of the Board of Directors of ImmunoGen, Inc. since January 2018 and of Rhythm Pharmaceuticals Inc. since July 2019. Mr. Arbuckle holds a BSc in pharmacology and physiology from the University of Leeds.
Dr. Bozic is our Executive Vice President, Global Medicines Development and Medical Affairs, a position she has held since October 2019, and she has been our Chief Medical Officer since April 2020. She was our Senior Vice President and Head of Global Clinical Development from May 2019 to October 2019. Prior to joining Vertex, Dr. Bozic spent more than 20 years at Biogen Inc., most recently as Senior Vice President of Global Development and Portfolio Transformation from 2015 to May 2019 and as Senior Vice President of Clinical and Safety Sciences from 2013 to 2015. Dr. Bozic has served as the industry representative to the FDA’s Risk Communication Advisory Committee, and was a member of PhRMA’s Clinical and Preclinical Development Committee and the Board of Managers at BioMotiv. She is a member of the Clinical Advisory Board at Akili Interactive. She received her M.D., C.M., completed her residency, and was Chief Resident in Internal Medicine at McGill University. She completed her fellowship in Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and was an Associate Physician at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard Medical School before joining the biopharmaceutical industry.
Mr. Parini is our Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative, Legal and Business Development Officer, a role he has held since March 2020. From January 2017 to March 2020, he was our Executive Vice President, Chief Legal and Administrative Officer. From January 2016 to January 2017, he was our Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer. From 2004 until he joined Vertex, Mr. Parini served in various roles of increasing responsibility at Pfizer Inc., a pharmaceutical company, most recently as Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior to Pfizer, Mr. Parini was an attorney at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld, L.L.P. Mr. Parini holds a B.A. from Georgetown University and a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center.
Mr. Sachdev is our Executive Vice President, Chief Patient Officer, a role he has held since October 2019. In addition, Mr. Sachdev has served in the role of Chief of Staff to the CEO since April 2020. He served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer from January 2017 until September 2019, and as our Executive Vice President, Policy, Access and Value from October 2014 through December 2016. In 2010, he established our first international commercial operations in Canada. In 2007, he joined us as a Senior Vice President, and has led our government affairs and public policy activities, as well as our patient advocacy programs. Prior to joining us, Mr. Sachdev served as Executive Vice President, Health of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) and was the Deputy Commissioner for Policy at the FDA, where he also served in several other senior positions. Prior to the FDA, Mr. Sachdev served as Majority Counsel to the Committee on Energy and Commerce in the United States House of Representatives and practiced law at the Chemical Manufacturers Association, and subsequently at the law firm of Ropes & Gray LLP. He has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Eiger BioPharmaceuticals since May 2019. Mr. Sachdev holds a B.S from Carnegie Mellon University and a J.D. from Emory University School of Law.
Dr. Sanna has been our Executive Vice President, Chief of Cell and Genetic Therapies since February 2020. From October 2019 to February 2020, he was President of Semma Therapeutics, Inc., a private biotechnology company that Vertex acquired in October 2019. Prior to the acquisition, Dr. Sanna was the Chief Executive Officer and President of Semma from May 2018 until October 2019. Dr. Sanna was Chief Operating Officer at Magenta Therapeutics from May 2016 through April 2018. He served on the leadership team of the Novartis Cell and Gene Therapy Unit as the Global Program Head of Stem Cell Transplant and early programs from 2014 through 2016. Dr. Sanna served as Global Head of Strategic Planning and Portfolio Management at the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research from 2010 through 2014. Dr. Sanna has served as a member of the Board of Directors of Adicet Bio, Inc., a biotechnology company since December 2020. Dr. Sanna received a Ph.D. in Biotechnology from the University of Sassari.
Dr. Tatsis has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Regulatory and Quality Officer since August 2020. She was our Senior Vice President and Chief Regulatory Officer from October 2019 to August 2020. She served as our Senior Vice President, Global Regulatory Affairs from September 2017 to October 2019. Prior to joining Vertex, Dr. Tatsis held positions of increasing responsibility at several pharmaceutical companies, including Sanofi, Stemnion, Pfizer, and Wyeth. Most

24

recently, from 2014 to 2017, she was Vice President, Head of Global Regulatory Affairs, at the Sanofi Genzyme Business Unit focused on Inflammation/Immunology, Rare Disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Ophthalmology, Neurology, and Oncology/Immuno-Oncology. Dr. Tatsis also worked as an associate staff scientist and research fellow in Immunology and Vaccine Development at the Wistar Institute and completed a post-doctoral research fellowship in Immunology at Thomas Jefferson University. She received her Ph.D. in Cell and Molecular Biology from the University of Vermont and holds a B.S. in Biology from Temple University.
Mr. Wagner has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2019. Prior to joining Vertex, Mr. Wagner was Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President, Finance of Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, a Carlyle Group portfolio company, from June 2015 to March 2019. In that role, he led the finance, accounting, tax, treasury, global information systems, lender relations, and acquisitions and divestiture groups, as well as shared leadership over several enterprise-wide projects. From July 2012 to June 2015, Mr. Wagner served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Bruker Corporation, a scientific instruments manufacturer. Prior to that, Mr. Wagner served as Chief Financial Officer for Progress Software Corporation, a provider of enterprise software, and Millipore Corporation, a global provider of products and services in the life science tools market. Mr. Wagner served as a director and chairman of the Audit Committee of Good Start Genetics, Inc. from April 2014 to August 2017 and served as a director and member of the Audit Committee of Bruker Corporation from August 2010 to June 2012. Mr. Wagner holds a B.S. in accounting from Boston College and a M.B.A from Harvard Business School.
Mr. Silva is our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer, a position he has held since April 2011. Mr. Silva also served as our interim Chief Financial Officer from January 2019 to April 2019. Mr. Silva joined us in August 2007 as Senior Director, Accounting Operations and was our Vice President and Corporate Controller from September 2008 through April 2011. Prior to joining us, he was the Vice President, Internal Reporting at Iron Mountain Incorporated from July 2006 until August 2007 and a consultant to Iron Mountain’s finance department from April 2005 until July 2006. He was the Finance Director of the Bioscience Technologies Division of Thermo Electron Corporation from 2002 to April 2005. Mr. Silva holds a B.S. in accounting from Assumption College.


25
