ITEM 1.Business
About Viatris
Viatris is a global healthcare company formed in November 2020 through the combination of Mylan and the Upjohn Business whose mission is to empower people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. By integrating the strengths of these two businesses, including our global workforce of approximately 45,000 employees and contractors, Viatris aims to deliver increased access to affordable, quality medicines for patients worldwide regardless of geography or circumstance. Viatris brings together industry leading commercial, R&D, regulatory, manufacturing, legal and medical expertise complemented by a strong commitment to quality and unparalleled geographic footprint to deliver high-quality medicines to patients in more than 165 countries and territories. Viatris’ portfolio comprises more than 1,400 approved molecules across a wide range of key therapeutic areas, including globally recognized iconic and key brands, generic, complex generic and biosimilars. Viatris operates approximately 50 manufacturing sites worldwide that produce oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs. Viatris is headquartered in the U.S., with global centers in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Shanghai, China and Hyderabad, India.
On November 16, 2020, Viatris, formerly known as Upjohn, Mylan and Pfizer consummated the combination of Mylan with the Upjohn Business through a Reverse Morris Trust transaction. In accordance with the terms and conditions of the BCA and SDA, (1) Pfizer contributed the Upjohn Business to Viatris (the “Contribution”), so that the Upjohn Business was separated from the remainder of Pfizer’s businesses (the “Separation”), (2) following the Separation, Pfizer distributed, on a pro rata basis (based on the number of shares of Pfizer common stock held by holders of Pfizer common stock as of the record date of November 13, 2020 (the “Record Date”)), all of the shares of Viatris common stock held by Pfizer to Pfizer stockholders as of the Record Date (the “Distribution”), and (3) immediately following the Distribution, Viatris and Mylan engaged in a strategic business combination transaction (the “Combination” or the “Upjohn Combination”). In addition, pursuant to the SDA and immediately prior to the Distribution, Viatris made a cash payment to Pfizer equal to $12 billion as partial consideration for the Contribution. As a result of the Combination, Viatris holds the combined Upjohn Business and Mylan business. Upon completion of the Distribution and the Combination, holders of Pfizer’s common stock as of the Record Date owned approximately 57% of the outstanding shares of Viatris common stock, and former Mylan shareholders owned approximately 43% of the outstanding shares of Viatris common stock, in each case on a fully diluted, as-converted and as-exercised basis. In connection with the Combination, on November 16, 2020, Mylan merged with and into Mylan II B.V., a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Viatris, pursuant to and in accordance with the BCA. As a result of such merger, Mylan ceased to exist as a separate legal entity. In accordance with ASC 805, Business Combinations, Mylan is considered the accounting acquirer of the Upjohn Business and all historical financial information of the Company prior to November 16, 2020 represents Mylan’s historical results and the Company’s thereafter.
Prior to the Separation, the legacy Upjohn Business historically received support services from Pfizer. In connection with the Separation and Combination, Viatris entered into several agreements with Pfizer or its subsidiaries, including among others, transition services and the manufacturing and supply agreements, which in general provide for the performance of certain services or obligations by each of Pfizer and Viatris for the benefit of each other for initial transitional periods following the Combination. Following the transitional periods or upon Viatris’ exit of the services prior to expiry of such periods, Viatris will need to absorb, replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which it no longer has access under the transitional agreements. For additional information, see “Risk Factors – Viatris could incur operational difficulties or losses if we are unable to obtain the same types and level of services and resources that historically have been provided to the legacy Upjohn Business by Pfizer, if Pfizer is unable to perform under the agreements entered into as part of the Combination or if we are required to make payments to Pfizer pursuant to indemnities agreed to as part of the Combination.”
Unless otherwise indicated, industry data included in this Item 1 are sourced from IQVIA Holdings Inc. and are for the twelve months ended November 2020. Viatris product and other company data included in this Item 1 are from internal sources and are as of November 30, 2020 and do not reflect the impact of the global restructuring program.
Organization
Upjohn was incorporated in Delaware on February 14, 2019 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pfizer to operate the Upjohn Business. Effective as of November 16, 2020, Upjohn changed its name to “Viatris Inc.” and became the parent entity of the combined Upjohn Business and Mylan business.
8
Table of Contents

The Upjohn Business was a global, primarily off-patent branded and generic established medicines business, which included 20 primarily off-patent solid oral dose legacy brands, such as Lyrica®, Lipitor®, Celebrex® and Viagra®.
Mylan was founded in 1961 as a privately-owned company and grew over time into one of the largest manufacturers of generic drugs in the U.S. Mylan became a publicly traded company in 1973. Mylan’s strategy then led to many acquisitions which have played a significant role in the evolution of the company, including Matrix Laboratories Limited (2007); Merck KGaA’s generic and specialty pharmaceutical business (2007); the EPD Business (2015) and Meda AB (publ.) (2016). These acquisitions assisted in creating robust research, manufacturing, supply chain and commercial platforms on a global scale; substantially expanding its portfolio of medicines; diversifying by geography, product type and channel; maintaining its commitment to quality; and cultivating its global workforce.
Since the consummation of the Combination, the Viatris management team has been focused on ensuring that the Company is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers and other stakeholders. This includes embarking on our previously disclosed significant global restructuring program, additional details were announced on December 11, 2020 and February 25, 2020.
Business Model and Operations
At Viatris, we see healthcare not as it is, but as it should be. We act courageously and are uniquely positioned to be a source of stability in a world of evolving healthcare needs. Viatris empowers people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life. We do so via:
vtrs-20201231_g1.jpg
ACCESS
Providing high-quality, trusted medicines, regardless of geography or circumstance. We are committed to improving access to high-quality medicines while working to ensure a reliable supply so patients can get the treatments they need, when and where they need them. Our global portfolio, supported by our science, medical and manufacturing expertise, delivers global iconic and key brands, complex generics, biosimilars, and generics.
vtrs-20201231_g2.jpg
LEADERSHIP
Advancing sustainable operations and innovative solutions to improve patient health. Viatris is committed to providing steady leadership in a world that is constantly evolving. We take that commitment seriously and know that advancing sustainable operations and innovative solutions to improve patient health requires strong global leadership. We know what it takes to reach more patients with more products, and believe that Viatris is uniquely positioned to make a difference through our:
•Powerful global operating platform, which combines what we believe to be best-in-class manufacturing and supply chain capabilities. We have more than 50 manufacturing facilities producing oral solid doses, injectables, complex dosage forms and APIs in 15 countries on five different continents, which mitigates risk of disruption in any given part of the world. Through our commitment to advancing sustainable operations, we work to systematically and diligently minimize our environmental footprint across the Viatris network. Our integrated, comprehensive approach focuses on managing our water, air emissions, waste, climate change and energy impact.
•Robust global technical resources, including more than 2,500 scientists, more than 1,000 regulatory experts and more than 600 medical and product safety professionals working around the world on innovative therapies and solutions for patients everywhere.
9
Table of Contents

•Strong global commercial team, including more than 13,000 sales team members and more than 1,100 marketing professionals whose goal is to ensure that products are shipped globally to more than 60,000 customers.
•Diverse and differentiated global portfolio includes products in more than 10 major therapeutic areas, including both infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases and medicines that treat 9 out of 10 of the World Health Organization’s leading causes of death. We are a leading supplier of medicines to the HIV/AIDS community around the world, with a legacy of providing access to high quality and affordable ARVs in more than 100 countries. We also are a leading provider of biosimilars globally, with regulatory approvals for biosimilars in more than 85 countries in the areas of oncology, immunology, endocrinology, ophthalmology and dermatology.
We believe that Viatris’ global leadership in all of these areas uniquely positions us to efficiently and effectively serve patients regardless of geography or circumstance. Together, with our commitment to provide access to a sustainable, affordable, and diverse portfolio of high-quality medicines and our goal to be a Partner of Choice™ for companies big and small, Viatris works to improve access and meet evolving healthcare needs around the world.
vtrs-20201231_g3.jpg
PARTNERSHIP
We have a strong history of partnering with other pharmaceutical companies, nonprofit organizations, government agencies, policymakers, trade associations and alliances, industry researchers and patient advocacy groups. In fact, in 2019, we collaborated with more than 60 associations worldwide on global public health issues. Our key collaborations focus on access to medicine; public awareness and disease screening; and healthcare provider education and support.
Collaboration and Licensing Agreements

We periodically enter into commercial collaboration and licensing agreements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development, manufacture, marketing and/or sale of pharmaceutical products. Doing so helps us share risks and costs, leverage strengths and scale up commercialization. The result often is that medicines become available sooner and to a significantly larger group of patients.
Our significant collaboration agreements are primarily focused on the development, manufacturing, supply and commercialization of multiple, high-value generic biosimilar compounds, insulin analog products and respiratory products, among other complex products. Refer to Note 18 Collaboration and Licensing Agreements included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information.
Global Healthcare Gateway™

As the world’s healthcare needs evolve, our Global Healthcare Gateway™ offers partners ready access to expanded markets through an innovative global infrastructure that connects people around the world to the high quality medicines and services they need. Powered by our best-in-class manufacturing, scientific and legal expertise and proven commercial capabilities with unparalleled reach, the Global Healthcare Gateway™ paves the way for Viatris to be the Partner of Choice™ for those looking to expand access to their assets, empowering more people worldwide to live healthier at every stage of life.
Operations

We have developed end-to-end experience across the total product life cycle, which includes global regulatory licensing, launch, growth and post-approval lifecycle management. Our research, development and medical platform seeks to maximize the impact of our existing product portfolio by examining whether there is an opportunity for new indications, label extensions, product formulations, and market registrations for our products. We also use our platform to determine whether there is an opportunity to integrate new products into our portfolio.
The manufacturing of APIs and finished dosage forms is performed by a combination of internal and external manufacturing operations, with much of our manufacturing being vertically integrated; this means we produce many of our own APIs and finished dosage forms. Occasionally, however, resources we need are available from only a single supplier. Like many pharmaceutical companies, we supplement our production footprint through arrangements with other manufacturers.
10
Table of Contents

The Company’s significant manufacturing, warehousing and distribution activities are located primarily in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Singapore, certain E.U. countries, including Ireland, India, Japan and China. In addition, we maintain administrative facilities around the world. While many of these key facilities are owned, Viatris also leases certain facilities from third parties.
We believe all our facilities are in good operating condition, the machinery and equipment are well-maintained, the facilities are suitable for their intended purposes and they have capacities adequate for the current operations.
Facilities and records related to our products are subject to periodic inspection by the FDA, the EMA and other regulatory authorities in jurisdictions where our products are marketed. In addition, authorities often conduct pre-approval plant inspections to determine whether our systems and processes comply with current GMP and other regulations, and clinical-trial reviews to evaluate regulatory compliance and data integrity. Our suppliers, contract manufacturers, clinical trial partners and other business partners are subject to similar regulations and periodic inspections. The Company remains committed to maintaining the highest quality manufacturing standards at its facilities around the world and to continuous assessment and improvement in a time of evolving industry dynamics and regulatory expectations.
We are committed to environmentally responsible conduct and have policies and procedures to support our work to systematically and diligently minimize our environmental footprint. Our integrated, comprehensive approach focuses on managing our water, air emissions, waste, climate change and energy impact. While it is impossible to predict accurately the future costs associated with environmental compliance and potential remediation activities, compliance with environmental laws is not expected to require significant capital expenditures and has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on our operations or competitive position.
Customers and Marketing
Numbering more than 60,000, our customers include retail and pharmacy establishments, wholesalers and distributors, payers, insurers and governments, and institutions such as hospitals; among others. See “Channel Types” below for more information about our customers.
The table below displays the percentage of consolidated net sales to our largest customers during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Percentage of Consolidated Net Sales		2020		2019		2018	McKesson Corporation	13 	%		15 	%		12 	%	AmerisourceBergen Corporation	10 	%		9 	%		8 	%	Cardinal Health, Inc.	8 	%		8 	%		8 	% 
As a result of the Combination, we estimate that the percentages to our significant customers could change in future periods.
We serve our customers through a team of approximately 14,000 sales and marketing professionals, all of whom are focused on establishing Viatris as our customers’ partner of choice. To best meet customers’ needs, the Company manages its business on a geographic basis.
In addition to being dynamic, the pharmaceutical industry is complex. How it functions, how it is regulated and how it provides patients access varies by location. Similarly, competition is affected by many factors. Examples of factors include innovation and development, timely approval of prescription drugs by health authorities, manufacturing capabilities, product quality, marketing effectiveness, portfolio size, customer service, consumer acceptance, product price, political stability and the availability of funding for healthcare.
Certain parts of our business also are affected by seasonality, e.g., due to the timing and severity of peak cough, cold and flu incidence, which can cause variability in sales trends for some of our products. While seasonality may affect quarterly comparisons within a fiscal year; it generally is not material to our annual consolidated results.
For these and other reasons, the Company’s sales and marketing efforts vary accordingly by product, market and channel type, each of which is described below.
11
Table of Contents

See the Application of Critical Accounting Policies section in Part II. Item 7 of this Form 10-K for more information related to customer arrangements.
Products
From cardiovascular health to oncology, Viatris offers quality treatment options across more than 10 major therapeutic areas covering a wide variety of noncommunicable and infectious diseases. We also offer support services such as diagnostic clinics, educational seminars and digital tools to help patients better manage their health. We offer a broad and diverse range of treatment options across all our therapeutic areas, with many categories containing several products in a range of dosage forms, formulations and delivery systems that allow physicians to tailor care for optimal treatment.
Viatris markets prescription brand drugs, generic drugs, complex generics, biosimilars and APIs.
Brand drugs typically are prescription pharmaceuticals that are sufficiently novel as to be protected by patents or other forms of exclusivity. As such, these drugs, which bear trade names, may be produced and sold only by those owning the rights, subject to certain challenges that other companies may make. Developing new medicines can take years and significant investment. Only a few promising therapies ever enter clinical trials. Fewer still are approved for sale by health authorities, at which point marketing to healthcare providers and consumers begins. Because patents and exclusivities last many years, they serve as an incentive to developers. During the periods protected, developers often recoup their investments and earn a profit. In many high-income countries, the brand business often is characterized by higher margins on lower volumes - especially as compared with generic manufacturers. Viatris has numerous branded drugs, including iconic brands as well as several global key brands to help patients manage their health. Brand drugs include branded generics which are off-patent products that are sold under an approved proprietary name for marketing purposes. Brand products often become branded generics once patent protections or other forms of exclusivity expire. Branded generic products are common in many countries outside the U.S., including emerging markets. Brand product and branded generic products are more sensitive to promotion than are unbranded generic products. They therefore represent the primary focus of most of our sales representatives and product-level marketing activity. Our OTC products, which are sold directly to consumers without a prescription and without reimbursement, are generally sold under a brand name
Generic drugs are therapeutically equivalent versions of brand drugs. Generics generally become available once the patents and other exclusivities on their branded counterparts expire. The generics business is generally characterized by lower margins on higher volumes of a relatively large number of products. Our generic medicines, which include complex and branded generics, work in the same way and provide the same clinical benefits as their as their brand-name counterparts and may cost less, providing patients and the healthcare system important savings and medicine options which we believe are essential to making healthcare accessible. The manufacturing of generic medicines is held to the same standards of GMP by health authorities as the manufacturing of branded medicines. National health authorities inspect our facilities around the world to ensure that generic manufacturing, packaging and testing sites pass the same quality standards as those of brand drugs. Gx products typically are sold under their INNs. INNs facilitate the identification of pharmaceutical substances or APIs. Each INN is unique and globally recognized. A nonproprietary name also is known as a generic name.
Complex generic drugs are generic medicines that could have a complex active ingredient, complex formulation, complex route of delivery or complex drug device combinations. Viatris offers a number of these important medicines to patients, including our Wixela® Inhub®, the first generic of ADVAIR DISKUS® and glatiramer acetate injection, a generic version of Copaxone®, for example.
Biosimilars are approved by regulatory authorities as highly similar to the originally approved brand version with no clinically meaningful differences in safety or efficacy. Biosimilar versions are increasingly available as therapeutic alternatives for patients facing many serious diseases, including diabetes, autoimmune disorders and multiple cancers. We offer one of the industry’s largest and most diverse global biosimilars franchises with approximately 150 marketing authorizations in over 85 countries focused on the areas of oncology, immunology, endocrinology, ophthalmology and dermatology. These vital products can help increase access for current and future patients while supporting the sustainability of healthcare systems, and we continue to invest in bringing more to market, as we believe more than two-thirds of the products we will launch in the coming years will be either complex generics or biosimilars. Biosimilars often are marketed under a brand-name. Viatris offers one of the industry’s largest and most diverse global biosimilars franchises, including Fulphila®, Ogivri®, and Hulio™.
APIs are responsible for the therapeutic effects of medicines. We are one of the world’s largest producers of APIs, providing them to customers in more than 100 countries. We are the leading producer of API used in generic antiretrovirals, which treat HIV/AIDS. We also produce API for products in the following areas: antibacterial; central nervous system agents; antihistamines/antiasthmatics; cardiovascular, antivirals; antidiabetics; antifungals; and proton pump inhibitors. Our API is sold through a dedicated sales and marketing team primarily to pharmaceutical companies throughout the world.
12
Table of Contents

Viatris invests significant sums in R&D and in manufacturing capacity. We also often incur substantial litigation expense as a result of defending or challenging brand patents or exclusivities.
Market Types
Viatris focuses its sales and marketing efforts on the people who make key decisions around pharmaceutical prescribing, dispensing or buying. Decision-makers vary by country or region, reflecting law and custom, giving rise to different types of pharmaceutical markets. Many countries feature a mix of or hybrids of various market types, though the Company may focus on just one type.
In prescription markets, physicians decide which medicines patients will take. Pharmacies then dispense the products as directed. Drug companies employ sales forces to educate doctors about the clinical benefits of their products. Representatives call on individual doctors or group practices; the process is known as detailing. Examples of countries served by Viatris that are mainly prescription markets are U.S. brand business, Japan, China, Russia, Turkey, Poland and Mexico.
In substitution markets, pharmacists generally are authorized (and in some cases required) by law to dispense an unbranded or branded generic, if available, in place of a brand-name medicine, or vice versa. Drug companies may use sales forces in these markets too, with representatives calling on and educating pharmacy personnel about their organization and products. Examples of countries served by Viatris that are mainly substitution markets are France, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Australia.
In tender markets, payers, such as governments or insurance companies, negotiate the lowest price for a drug (or group of drugs) on behalf of their constituents or members. In exchange, the chosen supplier’s product is placed on the payer’s formulary, or list of covered prescriptions. Often, a supplier’s drug is the only one available in an entire class of drugs. Large sales forces are not needed to reach these decision-makers. Examples of generic markets served by Viatris that are mainly tender markets are New Zealand, Sweden and South Africa.
In distribution markets, retailers and wholesalers make drug-purchasing decisions. Large sales forces are not needed to reach the decision-makers representing these organizations. Note, however, that pharmacists operating in distribution markets also may be authorized to make substitution decisions when dispensing medicines. Examples of countries served by Viatris that are mainly distribution markets are the U.S. generics business, the U.K. and Norway.
The allocation of our sales and marketing resources reflects the characteristics of these different market types.
In the case of OTC products, consumers are the decision-makers. OTC products are commonly sold via retail channels, such as pharmacies, drugstores and supermarkets. This makes their sale and marketing comparable to other retail businesses, with broad advertising and trade-channel promotion. Consumers often are loyal to well-known OTC brands. For this reason, suppliers of OTC products, Viatris included, must invest the time and resources needed to build strong OTC brand names.
Channel Types
Viatris’ products make their way to patients through a variety of intermediaries, or channels.
Pharmaceutical wholesalers/distributors purchase prescription medicines and other medical products directly from manufacturers for storage in warehouses and distribution centers. The distributors then fill orders placed by healthcare providers and other authorized buyers.
Pharmaceutical retailers purchase products directly from manufacturers or wholesalers/distributors. They then sell them to consumers in relatively small quantities for personal use.
Institutional pharmacies address the unique needs of hospitals, nursing homes and other such venues. Among the services provided are specialized packaging, including for injectables and unit-dose products, for controlled administration.
Mail-order and e-commerce pharmacies receive prescriptions by mail, fax, phone or the internet at a central location; process them in large, mostly automated centers; and mail the drugs to the consumer.
Specialty pharmacies focus on managing the handling and service requirements associated with high-cost and more-complex drug therapies, such as those used to treat patients with rare or serious diseases.
13
Table of Contents

Business Segments
Viatris reports segment information on the basis of markets and geography. In conjunction with the formation of Viatris, the Company has changed its reportable segments, from North America, Europe, and Rest of World, to Developed Markets, Greater China, JANZ, and Emerging Markets. This approach reflects the Company’s focus on bringing its broad and diversified portfolio of branded, complex generics, and generic products to people in markets everywhere. Our Developed Markets segment comprises our operations primarily in North America and Europe. Our Greater China segment includes our operations in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Our JANZ segment reflects our operations in Japan, Australia and New Zealand. Our Emerging Markets segment encompasses our operations in countries with developing markets and emerging economies including countries in Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America, Africa and Eastern Europe, and also includes the Company’s ARV franchise.
Developed Markets
The Developed Markets segment comprises our operations primarily in North America and Europe. The Company’s business in North America is driven mainly by our operations in the U.S., where we are one of the largest providers of prescription medicines. The U.S. pharmaceutical industry is very competitive, and the primary means of competition are innovation and development, timely FDA approval, manufacturing capabilities, product quality, marketing, portfolio size, customer service, reputation and price. We rely on cost-effective manufacturing processes to meet the rapidly changing needs of our customers around a reliable, high quality supply of generic pharmaceutical products. Europe, where many governments provide healthcare at a low direct cost to consumers and regulate pharmaceutical prices or patient reimbursement levels, continues to be a highly competitive market, especially in terms of pricing, quality standards, service levels and product portfolio. Our leadership position in a number of countries provides us a platform to fulfill the needs of patients, physicians, pharmacies, customers and payors.
Significant products sold by the Developed Markets segment include Lyrica®, Lipitor®, Creon®, Influvac®, Wixela™ Inhub™, and the EpiPen® Auto-Injector.
New product launches are an important growth driver. Important recent launches include Dimethyl Fumarate, Mesalamine extended release capsule, Trastuzumab injection, and Fludrocortisone.
While our U.S. customer base is extensive, it increasingly comprises a small number of very large firms as the pharmaceutical industry continues to undergo tremendous change and consolidation. Viatris is well positioned to serve such customers - in the U.S. and elsewhere - due to the scale we have built in terms of R&D, API and finished-dosage-form manufacturing, and portfolio breadth.
Greater China
The Greater China segment now includes our operations in mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Since the closing of the Combination, the Viatris Greater China portfolio is predominantly branded LOE products. Our products compete in both the hospital segment, where reimbursement is primarily funded by the government, and the retail pharmacy channel, which is mainly self-pay.
In China, the recent healthcare reform measures are aimed at controlling the overall healthcare costs, while providing better and broader care to the population. Healthcare spending is expected to increase in-line with GDP growth. The VBP policy for LOE molecules is now in its third year and includes more than 150 molecules. All major Viatris brands are already included in the VBP molecule lists. We have re-balanced our business to expand our focus on the retail pharmacy and e-commerce channels while maintaining our focus on the hospital channel. Healthcare consumerism, increased spending power, and demand for premium medical products have generated strong growth in these new channels and partially absorbed the reductions seen in hospital channel due to VBP. The URP policy will cap reimbursement of molecules at their VBP tender winning price, is expected to start in during 2021. URP will create additional pricing and volume pressure for pharmaceutical products that are subject to the program and is expected to negatively impact our results of operations. For additional information, see “Risk Factors - We have and may continue to experience pressure on the pricing of and reimbursements for certain of our products due to pricing controls, social or government pressure to lower the cost of drugs, and consolidation across the supply chain.”
Significant products within the Greater China segment include Lipitor®, Norvasc®, and Viagra®.
14
Table of Contents

JANZ
The JANZ segment consists of our operations in Japan, Australia and New Zealand. In Japan, the NHI regulates the pricing of pharmaceutical products to healthcare providers in the retail market. The Company sells products in Japan primarily through a network of wholesalers who then sell the products to doctors, hospitals and pharmacies. In Australia, the healthcare system is a mix of public and private healthcare sectors, with Medicare, Australia’s public healthcare system, covering most of the country’s medical costs. The Department of Health oversees healthcare governance, law, and policy while the various state and territory governments administer the system. Most prescription pharmaceutical products are subsidized under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme by the federal government. Pricing of reimbursed pharmaceutical products is regulated by the government and funded via the Medicare levy and through company and patient contributions. The Company sells products primarily through the wholesale system.
Significant products within the JANZ segment include AMITIZA®, Lipacreon®, Lyrica®, Norvasc®, and Effexor®. New product launches are an important growth driver. Important recent launches include Trastuzumab injection.
Emerging Markets
The Emerging Markets segment encompasses our operations in 82 countries with developing markets and emerging economies including countries in Asia, the Middle East, South and Central America, Africa and Eastern Europe. The Emerging Markets segment also includes the Company’s anti-retroviral franchise. Many countries in this segment are brand-focused, and generic penetration is low. Among our products sold in the segment are Lipitor®, Lyrica®, Norvasc®, Celebrex®, and anti-retrovirals.
New product launches are an important growth driver. New products sold in the Emerging Markets segment in 2020 includes Remdesivir.
Refer to Note 15 Segment Information included in Part II. Item 8 of this Form 10-K for more information about our segments.
Government Regulation
Regulation by governmental authorities is a significant factor in the R&D, manufacture, marketing, sales and distribution of pharmaceuticals. Human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical testing to gather data to support approval, which requires extensive data and information; manufacturing is conducted under exacting conditions governed by extensive regulation; and post-approval activities, such as advertising and promotion and pharmacovigilance, are subject to extensive regulation.
The lengthy process of developing products and obtaining required approvals and the continuing need for post-approval compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Regulatory approval, if and when obtained, may be limited in scope. Further, approved drugs, as well as their manufacturers, are subject to ongoing post-marketing review and inspection, which can lead to the discovery of previously unknown problems with products or the manufacturing or quality control procedures used in their production, which may result in restrictions on their manufacture, sale or use or in their withdrawal from the market.
Any failure or delay by us, our suppliers of manufactured drug product, collaborators or licensees, in obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect the marketing of our products and our ability to receive product revenue, license revenue or profit-sharing payments.
Other Regulatory Requirements
Our business is subject to a wide range of various other federal, state, non-governmental, and local agency rules and regulations. They focus on fraud and corruption, pricing and reimbursement, data privacy, and the environment, among many other considerations. For more information about certain of these regulations and the associated risks we face, see Part I. Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.
Research and Development
15
Table of Contents

Our R&D organization, which includes researchers and regulatory and clinical experts, numbers more than 2,000 people who work collaboratively across our 12 different R&D centers around the world, including 10 technology-focused development sites and 2 global R&D centers.

Our research, development and medical platform seeks to deliver new product opportunities (brand, complex generic, biosimilar and generic) across all of our markets and to develop new expanded opportunities for products in our existing portfolio. Our product pipeline includes a variety of dosage forms. While committed to generics and specialty products, over the last several years, a greater portion of our investments has been focused on complex or difficult-to-formulate products, such as biosimilars, than on commodity products, such as conventional oral solid dosage forms.

Collectively, the investments in all our research efforts represent more than 2,000 products under development or pending approval around the world.

Intellectual Property
We consider the protection of our intellectual property rights to be extremely valuable, and we act to protect them from infringement by third parties.
We have an extensive trademark portfolio and routinely apply to register key brand-name, generic, branded generic, biosimilar and OTC trade names in numerous countries around the world. Our registered trademarks are renewable indefinitely, and these registrations are properly maintained in accordance with the laws of the countries in which they are registered.
We also have an extensive patent portfolio and actively file for patent protection in various countries to protect our brand-name, generic, branded generic, biosimilar and OTC products, including processes for making and using them. We have more than 5,200 patents filed globally. For additional information, see Part I. Item 1A “Risk Factors - We rely on the effectiveness of our patents, confidentiality agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights” of this Form 10-K.
Further, we have well-established safeguards in place to protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, both of which we consider extremely valuable to our intellectual property portfolio.
We look for intellectual property licensing opportunities to or from third parties, related not only to our existing products, but as a means for expanding our product portfolio.
We rely on the aforementioned types of intellectual property, as well as our copyrights, trade dress, regulatory exclusivities and contractual protections, to establish a broad scope of intellectual property rights for our product portfolio.
Human Capital
We work to advance responsible and sustainable operations and leverage our collective expertise and perspectives to empower people to live healthier at every stage of life, recognizing that our actions affect the stakeholders and communities we serve.

Our passionate and talented workforce is fundamental in bringing Viatris’ mission to life. Together, we are creating a performance-driven, highly engaging and inclusive culture with colleagues united by a shared purpose, a dedication to excellence and a mutual respect for one another that enables us to fully realize the potential of this new enterprise.

Talent, training and development
The careers of our colleagues make a difference in the lives of patients around the world, and we want those careers to make a difference in their own lives as well. We provide tools and resources to help colleagues reach new heights. We are committed to cultivating and acquiring talent, developing capabilities and driving performance. We are systematically reviewing and developing structures, programs and processes to support colleagues’ professional development and ensure that Viatris contains the appropriate competencies to support our mission.

Diversity and inclusion
Diversity and inclusion, including understanding and embracing what makes individuals unique, are essential to Viatris’ mission. The diversity we foster in all aspects of our business can be one of our greatest strengths in redefining healthcare not as it is, but as it should be.

16
Table of Contents

Viatris strives to create a positive, productive work environment where integrity, dignity and mutual respect for all are valued. We are an equal opportunity employer and discrimination and harassment are strictly prohibited. Together, we are building a highly inclusive organization and our goal is to provide a safe, supportive community where employees feel they belong and can use their unique experiences, perspectives and skills to make a difference in the lives of others.

As a new company spanning nearly every corner of the world, we are energized by the diversity of our workforce. We are bringing together colleagues and allies with common interests and diverse experiences in voluntary networks called employee resource groups.

Employee wellbeing and safety
Viatris is committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors. In addressing the COVID-19 pandemic and helping meet urgent global health needs, tens of thousands of dedicated Viatris employees across the world worked to help ensure a stable supply of much needed treatments.

Because protecting the health and safety of our workforce remains paramount, we continue to align with government directives and the advice of relevant international, national and local health authorities at every Viatris facility around the world. Many of our colleagues are working in manufacturing facilities, where we have taken extra precautions to protect our site personnel and operations, including implementing social distancing measures, daily health assessments and split shifts where feasible. Others have traded their desks for kitchen tables and are juggling disrupted family schedules as well as work, like so many, during this time. We offer a wide range of benefits and programs that are locally customized to meet the unique needs of employees, and regularly offer advice and support to employees working from home.

Approach to restructuring
Viatris has commenced a global restructuring program intended to ensure that the organization is optimally structured and efficiently resourced to deliver sustainable value to patients, shareholders, customers, and other stakeholders. Any workforce actions taken as part of this restructuring program will be implemented in a way that is consistent with the company’s strong commitment to treating employees fairly and with respect.

Exchange Act Reports
Viatris maintains a website at Viatris.com where you can find certain reports and associated amendments that the Company files with the SEC in accordance with the Exchange Act. These filings will include our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports.
We make this information available on our website free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be deemed “filed” under the Exchange Act.
The SEC also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.