Item 1.  Business

Overview
Walgreens Boots Alliance, Inc., a Delaware corporation (“Walgreens Boots Alliance”), is a global leader in retail and wholesale pharmacy, touching millions of lives every day through dispensing and distributing medicines, and through its convenient retail locations, digital platforms and health and beauty products with sales of $139.5 billion in the fiscal year ended August 31, 2020. The Company has more than 100 years of trusted healthcare heritage and innovation in community pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesaling. Walgreens Boots Alliance's purpose is to help people across the world lead healthier and happier lives. Walgreens Boots Alliance is proud of its contributions to healthy communities, a healthy planet, an inclusive workplace and a sustainable marketplace.

Walgreens Boots Alliance is the largest retail pharmacy, health and daily living destination across the United States and Europe. Walgreens Boots Alliance and the companies in which it has equity method investments together have a presence in more than 251 countries and employ more than 450,0001 people. The Company is a global leader in retail and wholesale pharmacy and, together with the companies in which it has equity method investments, has over 21,0001 stores in 111 countries as well as one of the largest global pharmaceutical wholesale and distribution networks, with over 4251 distribution centers delivering to more than 250,0002 pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year in more than 201 countries. In addition, Walgreens Boots Alliance is one of the world’s largest purchasers of prescription drugs and many other health and well-being products. The Company’s size, scale and expertise will help us to expand the supply of, and address the rising cost of, prescription drugs in the United States and worldwide.

We provide customers with convenient, omni-channel access through our portfolio of retail and business brands includes Walgreens, Duane Reade, Boots and Alliance Healthcare, as well as increasingly global health and beauty product brands, such as No7, NICE!, Soap & Glory, Liz Earle, Finest Nutrition, Botanics, Well Beginnings, Sleek MakeUP and YourGoodSkin. Our global brands portfolio is enhanced by our in-house product research and development capabilities. We seek to further drive innovative ways to address global health and wellness challenges. Our strategic partnerships with some of the world’s leading companies enable us to extend our healthcare solutions and convenience offering to the communities we serve, which we refer to as our “strategic partner strategy.” We believe we are well positioned to expand customer offerings in existing markets and become a health and well-being partner of choice in emerging markets. Additionally, through our strategic partnerships, we will be able to dramatically enhance Walgreens Boots Alliance's marketing effectiveness and power the Company's strategic initiative around mass personalization - delivering the right offers and content to our customers.

Walgreens Boots Alliance was incorporated in Delaware in 2014 and is the successor of Walgreen Co., an Illinois corporation, which was formed in 1909 as a successor to a business founded in 1901. Our principal executive offices are located at 108 Wilmot Road, Deerfield, Illinois 60015. Our common stock trades on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol “WBA”.

1    As of August 31, 2020.
2    Over 12 - month period ending August 31, 2020.

Estimated COVID-19 impacts and uncertainties

In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, which causes the infectious disease known as COVID-19, was reported. The World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a “Public Health Emergency of International Concern” on January 30, 2020 and a global pandemic on March 11, 2020. COVID-19 has severely impacted, and is expected to continue to impact, the economies of the U.S., the UK and other countries around the world. COVID-19 has created significant public health concerns as well as significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in every region in which we operate, all of which have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industries and our business operations. Further, financial and credit markets have experienced and may again experience volatility and turmoil. Policies and initiatives designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 have resulted in, among other things, temporary closure or reduced hours of operation of certain store locations in U.S., UK and other countries, reduced customer traffic and sales in our retail pharmacies and the adoption of work-from-home policies.

COVID-19 adversely affected global economic conditions in fiscal 2020 and the Company expects this will continue into fiscal 2021 and possibly longer. The situation surrounding COVID-19 remains fluid, and we are actively managing our response in collaboration with customers, government officials, team members and business partners and assessing potential impacts to our financial position and operating results, as well as developments in our business. As COVID-19 impacts the economies of the U.S. and other countries around the world, the Company has put preparedness plans in place at our facilities to maintain continuity of our operations, while also taking steps to keep our team members healthy and safe.
- 1 -

Table of Contents

We continue to closely monitor the impact of COVID-19 on our business and geographies, including how it is impacting our customers, team members, suppliers, vendors, business partners and distribution channels. However, the future impact that COVID-19 will have on our financial position and operating results may be affected by numerous uncertainties, including the severity of the virus, the duration of the outbreak, governmental, business or other actions, impacts on our supply chain, the effect on customer demand, store closures or changes to our operations. The health of our workforce, and our ability to meet staffing needs in our stores, distribution facilities, wholesale operations and other critical functions cannot be predicted and is vital to our operations. The impacts of a potential worsening of global economic conditions and the continued disruptions to, and volatility in, the credit and financial markets, consumer spending as well as other unanticipated consequences remain unknown. Further, additional waves of COVID-19 in fiscal 2021 or beyond would cause many of the impacts described herein to return or be exacerbated. In addition, we cannot predict with certainty the impact that COVID-19 will have on our customers, vendors, suppliers and other business partners; however, any material effect on these parties could adversely impact us.

For further information, please see item 1A, risk factors in this report, which is incorporated herein by reference. The Company’s current expectations described above are forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ. Factors that might cause a difference include, but are not limited to, those discussed below under “Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements” in item 7 and in item 1A, risk factors, in this report.

Recent Transactions
In fiscal 2020, as part of our strategic partnership strategy, the Company has announced several strategic partnerships and alliances with other leaders in the technology, health and retail sectors. These strategic partnerships, initiatives and alliances are designed to complement and enhance our customer offerings.

On July 8, 2020, the Company entered into an agreement with VillageMD to invest $1.0 billion in equity and convertible debt over the next three years, including a $250 million equity investment completed on July 8, 2020, subject to the terms of the agreement. The Company and VillageMD plan to open 500 to 700 “Village Medical at Walgreens” physician-led primary care clinics in more than 30 U.S. markets in the next five years. The Company will continue to account for its equity investment in VillageMD using the equity method of accounting. It is anticipated, assuming full conversion of the debt, that the Company will hold an approximately 30% ownership interest in VillageMD at the completion of the investment.

On December 12, 2019, the Company entered into an agreement with McKesson Corporation to combine their respective pharmaceutical wholesale businesses in Germany. The Company will have a 70% controlling equity interest in the joint venture and McKesson will have a 30% ownership interest. The new joint venture is expected to drive greater economies of scale in the German pharmaceutical wholesale market. The transaction is expected to close in early fiscal 2021.

On September 19, 2017, the Company announced that it had secured regulatory clearance for an amended and restated asset purchase agreement to purchase 1,932 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from Rite Aid Corporation (“Rite Aid”) for $4.375 billion in cash and other consideration. Consideration included cash of $4,157 million and the fair value of the option granted to Rite Aid to become a member of the Company’s group purchasing organization, Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH. During fiscal 2019, this option was terminated resulting in recognition of a gain in other income (expense).The purchases of these stores occurred in waves during fiscal 2018 and have been accounted for as business combinations. The transition of the first distribution center and related inventory occurred in fiscal 2019 and the transition of the remaining two distribution centers and related inventory were completed in fiscal 2020.

In addition, the Company has completed additional acquisitions, divestitures and strategic initiatives in recent years designed to grow its businesses and enhance its competitive position. Please refer to management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7, below and note 2, acquisitions, note 3, exit and disposal activities, and note 5, equity method investments, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8, below for additional information.

Relationship with AmerisourceBergen
In March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots GmbH (“Alliance Boots”) and AmerisourceBergen Corporation (“AmerisourceBergen”) announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between Walgreens and AmerisourceBergen pursuant to which the Company sources branded and generic pharmaceutical products from AmerisourceBergen in the United States and an agreement which provides AmerisourceBergen the ability to access generic pharmaceutical products through the Company’s global sourcing enterprise, Walgreens Boots Alliance Development GmbH. In May 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years and are now expected to expire in 2026.

- 2 -

Table of Contents
In addition, in March 2013, Walgreens, Alliance Boots and AmerisourceBergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which the Company has the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in AmerisourceBergen over time through open market purchases and pursuant to warrants to acquire AmerisourceBergen common stock and gain associated representation on AmerisourceBergen’s Board of Directors in certain circumstances. Please refer to the Company’s Form 8-K filed on March 20, 2013 for more detailed information regarding these agreements and arrangements. 

As of August 31, 2020, the Company owned 56,854,867 AmerisourceBergen common shares representing approximately 28% of the outstanding AmerisourceBergen common stock and has designated one member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors. As of August 31, 2020, the Company can acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 AmerisourceBergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of AmerisourceBergen’s board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. The amount of permitted open market purchases is subject to increase or decrease in certain circumstances.

The Company accounts for its investment in AmerisourceBergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to the investment classified within the operating income of the Company’s Pharmaceutical Wholesale segment.

See management’s discussion and analysis in part II, item 7 and note 5, equity method investments and note 18, related parties to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8, below for additional information.

Industry overview
The retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries across the globe are highly competitive and dynamic and have experienced consolidation and an evolving competitive landscape in recent years. Prescription drugs play a significant role in healthcare and constitute a first line of treatment for many medical conditions. The Company believes the long-term outlook for prescription drug utilization is strong due, in part, to aging populations, increases in life expectancy, increases in the availability of generic drugs, the continued development of innovative drugs that improve quality of life and control healthcare costs and increases in the number of persons with insurance coverage for prescription drugs, including, in the United States, “baby boomers” increasingly becoming eligible for the federally funded Medicare Part D prescription program. Pharmaceutical wholesalers act as a vital link between drug manufacturers and pharmacies and healthcare providers in supplying pharmaceuticals to patients.

The retail pharmacy industry across the globe relies significantly on private and governmental third-party payers. Many private organizations throughout the healthcare industry, including pharmacy benefit management (“PBM”) companies and health insurance companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power. Third-party payers, including the Medicare Part D plans and the state-sponsored Medicaid and related managed care Medicaid agencies in the United States, can change eligibility requirements or reduce certain reimbursement rates. In addition, in many European countries, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. Changes in law or regulation also can impact reimbursement rates and terms. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the “ACA”) was enacted to help control federal healthcare spending, including for prescription drugs, in the United States. These changes generally are expected to reduce Medicaid reimbursements in the United States. State Medicaid programs are also expected to continue to seek reductions in reimbursements. When third-party payers or governmental authorities take actions that restrict eligibility or reduce prices or reimbursement rates, sales and margins in the retail pharmacy industry could be reduced, which would adversely affect industry profitability. In some cases, these possible adverse effects may be partially or entirely offset by controlling inventory costs and other expenses, dispensing more higher margin generics, finding new revenue streams through pharmacy services or other offerings and/or dispensing a greater volume of prescriptions.

These industry dynamics and challenges are continuous and have intensified in recent years. Since the completion of the strategic combination with Alliance Boots in December 2014, the Company has had a continuous focus on operational efficiencies and cost reduction.

Generic prescription drugs have continued to help lower overall costs for customers and third-party payers. The Company expects the utilization of generic pharmaceuticals to continue to increase. In general, in the United States, generic versions of drugs generate lower sales dollars per prescription, but higher gross profit dollars, as compared with patent-protected brand name drugs. The impact on retail pharmacy gross profit dollars can be significant in the first several months after a generic version of a drug is first allowed to compete with the branded version, which is generally referred to as a “generic conversion”. In any given year, the number of major brand name drugs that undergo a conversion from branded to generic status can vary and the timing of generic conversions can be difficult to predict, which can have a significant impact on retail pharmacy sales
- 3 -

Table of Contents
and gross profit dollars. In general, in the United States, specialty prescription business is also growing and generates higher sales dollars per prescription, but lower gross margin, as compared to generic prescription drugs.

The Company expects that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements and other pressures will continue to cause the industries in which the Company competes to evolve. Pharmacists are on the frontlines of the healthcare delivery system, and the Company believes rising healthcare costs and the limited supply of primary care physicians present opportunities for pharmacists and retail pharmacies to play an even greater role in driving positive outcomes for patients and payers through expanded service offerings.

Segments
Our operations are organized into three divisions, which are also our reportable segments:
 
•Retail Pharmacy USA;
•Retail Pharmacy International; and
•Pharmaceutical Wholesale.

For fiscal 2020, our segment sales were: Retail Pharmacy USA, $107.7 billion; Retail Pharmacy International, $10.0 billion; and Pharmaceutical Wholesale, $24.0 billion. Additional information relating to our segments is included in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7 below and in note 16, segment reporting and note 17, sales, to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

Retail Pharmacy USA
The Retail Pharmacy USA division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail offerings in 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, each focused on helping people feel happy and healthy. The Company operated 9,021 retail stores in the division as of August 31, 2020. The principal retail pharmacy brands in the division are Walgreens and Duane Reade. The Company is a market leader in the United States and, as of August 31, 2020, approximately 78% of the population of the United States lived within five miles of a Walgreens and Duane Reade retail pharmacy.

The Company is focused on creating a neighborhood health destination and a more modern pharmacy aligned to a wider range of healthcare services. Significant investments in fiscal 2021 are expected to accelerate the Company's customer-centric approach, with specific focus on transforming omni-channel capabilities and offerings across retail and healthcare. The Company’s services help improve health outcomes for patients and manage costs for payers, including employers, managed care organizations, health systems, PBM companies and the public sector. The Company utilizes its retail network as a channel to provide health and wellness services to its customers and patients, as illustrated by the Company’s ability to play a significant role in providing flu vaccines and other immunizations. Additionally, through our strategic partnership strategy, our key collaborations aim to develop new health care delivery models and to improve access to advanced healthcare technologies and solutions. We have taken further steps to develop our neighborhood health destinations, working with our strategic partners such as VillageMD to provide an integrated primary care and pharmacy model that aims to drive better health outcomes, reduce costs and provide a differentiated patient experience to the communities we serve.

The Company also provides specialty pharmacy and mail services, and offers other health and wellness services throughout the United States, most of which are operated by our healthcare strategic partners. The Company has more than 85,000 healthcare service providers, including pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, nurse practitioners and other health related professionals.

The division provides customers with convenient, omni-channel access to consumer goods and services, including own branded general merchandise, such as Well at Walgreens, NICE!, No7, and Soap & Glory, as well as pharmacy and health and wellness services in communities across the United States. Integrated with the Company’s e-commerce platform, the Walgreens mobile application allows customers to refill prescriptions through scan technology, receive notifications when a refill is due and choose their delivery option, which includes in-store pick up, drive-thru or delivery to their home. The Walgreens Find Care platform also includes telehealth service providers, connecting patients and customers with options to access convenient and affordable care from their mobile devices. Additionally, the Company has expanded the retail functionality of its mobile application, such as extending drive-thru service to include retail products and curbside collection for online orders. The division is also implementing new approaches to promotions, product selection and other areas to deliver greater value to its customers in its stores, including through an enhanced beauty offering.

The components of the division’s sales are Pharmacy (the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services) and Retail (the sale of healthcare and retail products including non-prescription drugs, health and wellness, beauty and
- 4 -

Table of Contents
personal care, and consumables and general merchandise). The division’s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, particularly the cough, cold and flu seasons and winter holiday. This seasonality also can affect the division’s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division’s fiscal year sales were as follows:
 		Fiscal 2020		Fiscal 2019		Fiscal 2018	Pharmacy		75 	%		74 	%		72 	%	Retail		25 	%		26 	%		28 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

The Company filled 818.0 million prescriptions (including immunizations) in the division in fiscal 2020. Adjusted to 30-day equivalents, prescriptions filled were 1.2 billion in fiscal 2020. The Company fills prescriptions under Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly financed or sponsored health benefit and prescription drug plans and programs, including the federal 340B drug pricing program. Sales where reimbursement is received from managed care organizations, governmental agencies, PBM companies and private insurance were approximately 97% of the division’s fiscal 2020 Pharmacy sales.

The Company fills prescriptions for many state Medicaid public assistance programs. Sales from all such Medicaid plans were approximately 4% of the division’s fiscal 2020 sales. Sales from Medicare Part D plans were approximately 20% of the division’s fiscal 2020 sales.

The Company’s U.S. loyalty program, Balance® Rewards, is designed to reward its most valuable customers and encourage shopping in stores and online. Balance® Rewards members receive special pricing on select products and earn everyday rewards points for purchasing most merchandise that can be instantly redeemed in store or through walgreens.com. As of August 31, 2020, the number of active Balance® Rewards members totaled approximately 86 million. For this purpose, an active member is defined here as someone who has used their card in the last six months. In fiscal 2021, we plan to launch the new myWalgreens initiative to provide a new interface for customers to access the enhanced and growing Walgreens digital offering. The new program will greatly simplify how customers accumulate and can use rewards. Points will be replaced by Walgreens Cash, reflecting the actual value of the reward and allowing the cash benefit to be applied as the customer chooses, not just to future transactions at Walgreens but even in support of their favorite charity or community cause.

AmerisourceBergen supplies and distributes a significant amount of generic and branded pharmaceutical products to the division’s pharmacies. The Company purchases its non-pharmaceutical merchandise from numerous manufacturers and wholesalers.

The division’s sales, gross profit margin and gross profit are impacted by, among other things, both the percentage of prescriptions filled that are generic and the rate at which new generic drugs are introduced to the market. Because any number of factors outside of the Company’s control can affect timing for a generic conversion, the Company faces substantial uncertainty in predicting when such conversions will occur and what effect they will have on particular future periods.

The current environment of the Company’s pharmacy business also includes ongoing reimbursement pressure and a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail (one prescription that is the equivalent of three 30-day prescriptions) and Medicare Part D prescriptions. Further consolidation among generic manufacturers coupled with changes in the number of major brand name drugs anticipated to undergo a conversion from branded to generic status may also result in gross margin pressures within the industry.

The Company continuously faces reimbursement pressure from PBM companies, government, health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations and other commercial third-party payers; agreements with these payers are regularly subject to expiration, termination or renegotiation. In addition, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in January and the Company’s reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. The Company experienced lower reimbursement rates in fiscal 2020 as compared to the same period in the prior year. The Company expects these pressures to continue.

The Company has also worked to develop and expand its relationships with commercial third-party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in pharmacy provider networks they offer. The prescription volume impact of new agreements and relationships typically is incremental over time.

The Company’s 90-day at retail prescription drug offering is typically at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions, but provides the Company with the opportunity to increase business with patients with chronic prescription needs while offering increased convenience, helping facilitate improved prescription adherence and resulting in a lower cost to fill the 90-day prescription. Similarly, the growing specialty prescription business, which generates higher sales dollars per prescription,
- 5 -

Table of Contents
may result in gross margin pressures within the industry, as compared to generic prescription drugs. The division’s performance is also impacted by the current environment, including the uncertainty as a result of COVID-19. For more information, see Risk Factors in Item 1A below.

Retail Pharmacy International
The Retail Pharmacy International division (excluding equity method investments) has pharmacy-led health and beauty retail businesses in eight countries, each focused on helping people look and feel their best. The Company operated 4,428 retail stores in the division as of August 31, 2020 (see properties in part I, item 2 below for information regarding geographic coverage) and has grown its omni-channel platform, including its online presence, in recent years. The Company’s principal retail pharmacy brands are Boots in the United Kingdom, Thailand, Norway, the Republic of Ireland and The Netherlands, Benavides in Mexico and Ahumada in Chile. In Europe, the Company is a market leader and its retail stores are conveniently located with pharmacists well placed to provide a significant role in the provision of healthcare services, working closely with other primary healthcare providers in the communities the Company serves.

The Boots omni-channel offering is differentiated from that of competitors due to the product brands the Company owns, such as No7, Boots Pharmaceuticals, Liz Earle, Soap & Glory, Sleek MakeUp, Botanics and ‘only at Boots’ exclusive products, together with its long established reputation for trust and customer care. The Company’s brands portfolio is enhanced by its in-house product research and development capabilities. The Company has introduced new beauty brands and beauty halls in key locations. Certain of the product brands of the Company are also sold by third-party retailers.

The Company’s retail store networks are typically complemented by online platforms. In the United Kingdom, through the boots.com website and integrated mobile application, the ‘order and collect’ service normally allows customers to order from a range of over 33,000 products by 8:00 p.m. and collect the following day from approximately 98% of the United Kingdom’s retail stores.

The Boots Advantage Card loyalty program, where customers earn points on purchases for redemption at a later date, continues to be a key element of the Boots offering. As of August 31, 2020, the number of active Boots Advantage Card members totaled approximately 11 million. For this purpose, an active member is defined as someone who has used their card in the last six months.

In addition, Boots in the United Kingdom is one of the leaders in the optical market with 550 practices, of which 165 operated on a franchise basis as of August 31, 2020. Approximately 30% of these optical practices are located in Boots stores with the balance being standalone optical practices.

The components of the division’s sales are Pharmacy (typically the sale of prescription drugs and provision of pharmacy-related services, subject to variation in particular jurisdictions depending upon regulatory and other factors) and Retail (primarily the sale of health and beauty products including beauty, toiletries and lifestyle merchandising, non-prescription drugs and, in the United Kingdom, the provision of optical services).

The division’s sales are subject to the influence of seasonality, with the second fiscal quarter typically the strongest as a result of the winter holiday period. This seasonality affects the division’s proportion of sales between Retail and Pharmacy during certain periods. The components of the division’s fiscal year sales were as follows:
 		Fiscal 2020		Fiscal 2019		Fiscal 2018	Pharmacy		39 	%		36 	%		35 	%	Retail		61 	%		64 	%		65 	%	Total		100 	%		100 	%		100 	% 

The division’s Retail sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, the highly competitive nature of the health and beauty category, specifically the Company and its competitors’ pricing actions, promotional offers and events and the customer’s desire for value and convenience.

The division’s Pharmacy sales, gross margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by governmental agencies and other third-party payers seeking to minimize increases in the costs of healthcare, including pharmaceutical drug reimbursement rates. In the United Kingdom, which is the division’s largest market for Pharmacy sales, the amount of government funding available for pharmacy services is typically reviewed and agreed with the pharmacy industry on an annual basis.

- 6 -

Table of Contents
In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British pound sterling being the most significant.

The division’s performance and relevant exchange rates are also impacted by the current environment, including the uncertainty as a result of COVID-19 and political uncertainty in the United Kingdom surrounding “Brexit.” For more information relating to these topics, see Risk Factors in Item 1A below.

Pharmaceutical Wholesale
The Pharmaceutical Wholesale division consists of the Alliance Healthcare pharmaceutical wholesaling and distribution businesses and an equity method investment in AmerisourceBergen. The Pharmaceutical Wholesale division (excluding equity method investments), which mainly operates under the Alliance Healthcare brand, supplies medicines, other healthcare products and related services to more than 115,000 pharmacies, doctors, health centers and hospitals each year from 306 distribution centers in 11 countries, primarily in Europe, as of August 31, 2020.

Combined with local engagement, scale is important in pharmaceutical wholesaling. Walgreens Boots Alliance is one of the largest pharmaceutical wholesalers and distributors in Europe, and it ranks as one of the top three in market share in many of the individual countries in which it operates.

The distribution of prescription medicines to pharmacists comprises the vast majority of the division’s sales. The wholesale businesses seek to provide high core service levels to pharmacists in terms of frequency of delivery, product availability, delivery accuracy, timeliness and reliability at competitive prices. The Company also offers customers innovative added-value services to help pharmacists develop their own businesses. This includes membership of Alphega Pharmacy, the Company’s pan-European network for independent pharmacies, which, as of August 31, 2020, had over 7,200 members.

In addition to the wholesale of medicines and other healthcare products, the division’s businesses provide services to pharmaceutical manufacturers which are increasingly seeking to gain greater control over their product distribution, while at the same time outsourcing non-core activities. These services include pre-wholesale and contract logistics (mainly under the Alloga brand), direct deliveries to pharmacies and innovative and specialized healthcare services, covering clinical homecare, medicine support, dispensing services, medicine preparation and clinical trial support (mainly under the Alcura brand).

The division’s sales, gross profit margin and gross profit dollars are impacted by, among other things, government actions, which typically seek to reduce the growth in prescription drug consumption, reduce reimbursement rates and increase generic drug utilization. A greater proportion of generic drugs, whether as a result of government actions, generic conversions or other factors, typically has an adverse effect on the Company’s revenues. However, in the wholesale division, the Company typically earns equal or better gross margins on generic drugs than on branded drugs, although there are exceptions.

Changes in manufacturers’ product distribution business models can also impact the division’s sales and gross margin. For example, when pharmaceutical drug manufacturers introduce fee-for-service contracts, the Company’s sales are reduced even if it is successful in winning these contracts, as the Company only recognizes sales for the amount of the fees charged. Other manufacturer services, including pre-wholesale and contract logistics operations, are typically on a fee-for-service basis.

In addition, performance as measured in U.S. dollars is impacted by the exchange rates used to translate these amounts into U.S. dollars, the exchange rate of British pound sterling and the Euro being the most significant. The division’s sales are subject to less seasonality than the Company’s other divisions.

The division’s performance and relevant exchange rates are also impacted by the current environment, including the uncertainty as a result of COVID-19 and political uncertainty in the United Kingdom surrounding “Brexit.” For more information relating to these topics, see Risk Factors in Item 1A below.

Intellectual property and licenses
The Company markets products and services under various trademarks, trade dress and trade names and relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual restrictions to establish and protect its proprietary rights. The Company owns numerous domain names, holds numerous patents, has registered numerous trademarks and has filed applications for the registration of a number of other trademarks and service marks in various jurisdictions. The Company holds assorted business licenses (such as pharmacy, occupational, liquor and cigarette) having various lives within multiple legal jurisdictions, which are necessary for the normal operation of the business.



- 7 -

Table of Contents
Seasonal variations in business
The Company’s business is affected by a number of factors including, among others, COVID-19, its sales performance during holiday periods (including particularly the winter holiday season) and during the cough, cold and flu season (the timing and severity of which is difficult to predict), significant weather conditions, the timing of its own or competitor discount programs and pricing actions and the timing of changes in levels of reimbursement from governmental agencies and other third-party payers. See the summary of quarterly results (unaudited) in note 19, supplementary financial information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in part II, item 8 below.

Sources and availability of raw materials
Inventories are purchased from numerous domestic and foreign suppliers. The Company does not believe that the loss of any one supplier or group of suppliers under common control would have a material adverse effect on its business or that of any of its divisions.

Working capital practices
Effective inventory management is important to the Company’s operations. The Company uses various inventory management techniques, including demand forecasting and planning and various forms of replenishment management. Its working capital needs typically are greater in the months leading up to the winter holiday season. The Company generally finances its inventory and expansion needs with internally-generated funds and short-term debt. For additional information, see the liquidity and capital resources section in management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part II, item 7, below.

Customers
The Company sells to numerous retail and wholesale customers. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s consolidated sales for any of the periods presented. In fiscal 2020, substantially all of our retail pharmacy sales were to customers covered by third-party payers (e.g., pharmacy benefit managers, insurance companies and governmental agencies) that agree to pay for all or a portion of a customer's eligible prescription purchases. One third-party payer in the Retail Pharmacy USA division accounted for approximately 11% of the Company’s consolidated sales in fiscal 2020.

See note 16, segment reporting, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Regulation
In the countries in which the Company does business, the Company is subject to national, state and local laws, regulations and administrative practices concerning retail and wholesale pharmacy operations, including regulations relating to the Company’s filling of prescriptions under Medicare, Medicaid and other publicly financed or sponsored health benefit plan and prescription drug plans and programs including the federal 340B drug pricing program; regulations prohibiting kickbacks, beneficiary inducement and the submission of false claims; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”); the ACA; licensure and registration requirements concerning the operation of pharmacies and the practice of pharmacy; and regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as regulations promulgated by comparable foreign, state and local governmental authorities concerning the operation of the Company’s businesses. The Company is also subject to laws and regulations relating to licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, currency, political and other business restrictions.

The Company is also governed by national, state and local laws of general applicability in the countries in which it does business, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity. In connection with the operation of its businesses, the Company is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances.

Competitive conditions
The industries in which the Company operates are highly competitive. As a leader in the retail pharmacy industry and as a retailer of general merchandise, the Company competes with various local, regional, national and global retailers, including chain and independent pharmacies, mail order prescription providers, grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers. The Company’s pharmaceutical wholesale businesses compete with other pharmaceutical wholesalers as well as alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. The Company competes primarily on the basis of service, convenience, variety and price. Its geographic dispersion helps mitigate the impact of temporary, localized economic and competitive conditions in individual markets. See “properties” in part I, item 2, below for further information regarding the Company’s geographic dispersion.
- 8 -
