ITEM 1.	BUSINESS 
Our Company


Life at home has been at the heart of our business for 110 years – it is why we exist and why we are passionate about what we do.
 

Whirlpool Corporation ("Whirlpool"), the world's leading kitchen and laundry appliance company, was incorporated in 1955 under the laws of Delaware and was founded in 1911. Whirlpool manufactures products in 13 countries and markets products in nearly every country around the world. We have received worldwide recognition for accomplishments in a variety of business and social efforts, including leadership, diversity, innovative product design, business ethics, social responsibility and community involvement. We conduct our business through four operating segments, which we define based on geography. Whirlpool Corporation's operating and reportable segments consist of North America, Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"), Latin America and Asia. Whirlpool had approximately $19 billion in annual sales and approximately 78,000 employees in 2020.

As used herein, and except where the context otherwise requires, "Whirlpool," "the Company," "we," "us," and "our" refer to Whirlpool Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. The world's leading kitchen and laundry appliance company claim is based on most recently available publicly reported annual revenues among leading appliance manufacturers.

3

Our Strategic Architecture
Our strategic architecture is the foundational component that drives our shareholder value creation. In 2020, our strategic architecture guided our response to unprecedented COVID-19-related uncertainty, which focused on keeping employees safe, plants operating, and liquidity accessible. Below are the key components of our strategic architecture.
whr-20201231_g2.jpg
Unique Global Position
Whirlpool Corporation is committed to delivering significant, long-term value to both our consumers and our shareholders. For consumers, we deliver value through innovative, high-quality products that solve everyday problems while saving time, energy and water. For our shareholders, we seek to deliver differentiated value through our four strategic pillars: global leading scale, best brand portfolio, proven track record of innovation and best cost position.


4

Global Leading Scale		Best Brand
Portfolio		Proven Track Record of Innovation		Best Cost
Position	
whr-20201231_g3.jpg
whr-20201231_g4.jpg
whr-20201231_g5.jpg
whr-20201231_g6.jpg
whr-20201231_g7.jpg
whr-20201231_g8.jpg
whr-20201231_g9.jpg
whr-20201231_g10.jpg
whr-20201231_g11.jpg
whr-20201231_g12.jpg
whr-20201231_g13.jpg
whr-20201231_g14.jpg
whr-20201231_g15.jpg
 
Global Leading Scale
We are the world's leading kitchen and laundry appliance company.
Our leading position includes a balance of developed countries and emerging markets, including a leading position in many of the key countries in which we operate. We believe we are well positioned to continue to convert demand into profitable growth.
Best Brand Portfolio
We have the best brand portfolio in the industry, including five brands with more than $1 billion in revenue.
whr-20201231_g16.jpg
We aim to position these desirable brands across many consumer segments. Our sales are led by our global brands, including Whirlpool and KitchenAid. Whirlpool is trusted throughout the world as a brand that delivers innovative care daily. Our KitchenAid brand brings a combination of innovation and design that inspires and fuels the passion of chefs, bakers and kitchen enthusiasts worldwide. These two brands are the backbone of our strategy to offer differentiated products that provide exceptional performance and desirable features while remaining affordable to consumers.
Additionally, we have a number of strong regional and local brands, including Maytag, Brastemp, Consul, Hotpoint*, Indesit, and Bauknecht. These brands add to our impressive depth and breadth of
appliance offerings and help us provide products that are tailored to local consumer needs and preferences.



•Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.

5

Proven Track Record of Innovation
Whirlpool Corporation has been responsible for a number of first-to-market innovations. These include the first electric wringer washer in 1911, the first residential stand mixer in 1919, the first countertop microwave in 1967 and the first energy and water efficient top-load washer in 1998. We are proud of our track record of innovation.
While we are proud of that legacy, we are also committed to innovating for a new generation of consumers. Our world-class innovation pipeline has accelerated over the last few years, driven by consistent innovation funding and a passionate culture of employees focused on bringing new technologies to market. This year, we launched more than 100 new products throughout the world, and we are committed to further accelerating our pace of innovation, including our new global dishwasher architecture featuring the largest capacity 3rd rack dishwasher, Red Dot Award-winning built-in induction cooktop in Europe, new premium top load laundry in North America featuring the Load & Go dispenser, pretreat station and connected options, and lastly we entered the consumables detergent business with the launch of our ultra concentrated Swash detergent.
As the shift to digital continues, consumers continue to desire connected appliances which fit seamlessly into the larger home ecosystem. We are excited to bring new connected products and technologies to market, including voice control, food recognition and automatic laundry detergent replenishment. Whether developed internally or with one of our many collaborators, we believe these digitally-enabled products and services will increasingly enhance the appliance experience for our consumers.
Whirlpool manufactures and markets a full line of major home appliances and related products. Our principal products are laundry appliances (including commercial laundry appliances), refrigerators and freezers, cooking appliances, dishwashers, mixers and other small domestic appliances. Prior to the divestiture of our Embraco business on July 1, 2019, we also produced compressors for refrigeration systems. The following chart provides the percentage of net sales for each of our product categories which accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated net sales over the last three years:
whr-20201231_g17.jpg

6

whr-20201231_g18.jpg
Best Cost Position
As the world's leading kitchen and laundry appliance company, we have a cost benefit on everything we do based on scale, and are committed to a relentless focus on cost efficiency. Our global scale enables our local-for-local production model. We are focused on producing as efficiently as possible and at scale throughout the world.
As the global environment continues to change, we believe our demonstrated ability to execute cost takeout allows us to effectively cope with macroeconomic challenges, and we see additional opportunities to further streamline our cost structure. For example, we are on a journey to reduce the complexity of our designs and product platforms. This initiative, among many others, will enable us to utilize increased modular production, improved scale in global procurement, and further streamline our day-to-day manufacturing operations.
We believe our cost position is clearly differentiated in the appliance industry and we are committed to even further improvement, creating strong levels of value for our shareholders, regardless of the external environment. In 2020, in response to COVID-19, we took immediate and decisive action as we announced and executed our cost take-out program, a key driver of our margin expansion during the year.
Value Creation Framework
Our long-term value creation framework is built upon the strong foundation we have in place: our industry-leading brand portfolio and robust product innovation pipeline, supported by our global operating platform and executed by our exceptional employees throughout the world. We measure these value-creation components by focusing on the following key metrics:
Profitable Growth			Margin Expansion			Cash Conversion							Innovation-fueled growth at or above
the market			Drive cost and price/mix to grow profitability			Asset efficiency converts profitable growth to cash		~3%			~10%			6%+		Annual Organic
Net Sales Growth			Ongoing EBIT Margin			FCF as % of Net Sales											 
Capital Allocation Strategy
We take a balanced approach to capital allocation by focusing on the following key metrics:
Fund innovation and Growth	Target	Capital Expenditures	~3% of net sales	Research & Development	~3% of net sales	Mergers & Acquisitions	Pursue opportunistic M&A with high ROIC 

7

Return to Shareholders	Target	Dividends	~30% of trailing 12-month ongoing net earnings	Share Repurchase	
Moderate share repurchases; ~$530M authorization remaining (1)
Targeted Capital Structure	Maintain strong investment grade rating		Gross Debt/EBITDA of 2.0x 
(1)As of December 31, 2020
We remain confident in our ability to effectively manage our business through macroeconomic volatility and expect to continue delivering long-term value for our shareholders.

8

Regional Business Summary
North America	
•In the United States, we market and distribute major home appliances and other consumer products primarily under the Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, JennAir, Amana, Roper, Affresh, Swash, everydrop and Gladiator brand names primarily to retailers, distributors and builders, as well as end consumers. We also market small domestic appliances under the KitchenAid brand name primarily to retailers and distributors

•In Canada, we market and distribute major home appliances primarily under the Whirlpool, Maytag, JennAir, Amana, Speed Queen and KitchenAid brand names.

•We sell some products to other manufacturers, distributors, and retailers for resale in North America under those manufacturers' and retailers' respective brand names.
whr-20201231_g19.jpg
Europe, Middle East and Africa
(EMEA)	
•In Europe, we market and distribute our major home appliances primarily under the Whirlpool, Hotpoint*, Bauknecht, Indesit, Ignis, Maytag and Privileg brand names. We also market major home appliances and small domestic appliances under the KitchenAid brand name primarily to retailers and distributors.

•We market and distribute products under the Whirlpool, Bauknecht, Maytag, Indesit, Amana and Ignis brand names to distributors and dealers in Africa and the Middle East; we exited our commercial operations in Turkey in the second quarter of 2019.

•In addition to our operations in Western and Central Eastern Europe, and Russia, we have a manufacturing operation in Turkey and a sales subsidiary in Morocco.
whr-20201231_g20.jpg
Latin America	
•In Latin America, we produce, market and distribute our major home appliances, small domestic appliances and other consumer products primarily under the Consul, Brastemp, Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Acros, Maytag and Eslabon de Lujo brand names primarily to retailers, distributors and directly to consumers.

•We also serve the countries of Bolivia, Paraguay, Uruguay, Venezuela, and certain Caribbean and Central America countries, where we manage appliances sales and distribution through accredited distributors.

•In July 2019, our Latin America operations sold our compressors business to a third party.
whr-20201231_g21.jpg
Asia	
•In Asia, we have organized the marketing and distribution of our major home appliances and small domestic appliances in multiple countries, primarily China and India.

•We market and distribute our products in Asia primarily under the Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid, Ariston, Indesit, Bauknecht, Diqua, and Royalstar brand names through a combination of direct sales to appliance retailers and chain stores and through full-service distributors to a large network of retail stores. As our rights to use the Sanyo brand name expired in the fourth quarter of 2019 (with a limited right to sell existing inventories until the second quarter of 2020), we have facilitated brand transition with investment to drive Whirlpool brand awareness in China.
whr-20201231_g22.jpg
 
*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.

9

Competition
Competition in the major home appliance industry is intense, including competitors such as Arcelik, BSH (Bosch), Electrolux, Haier, Kenmore, LG, Mabe, Midea, Panasonic and Samsung, many of which are increasingly expanding beyond their existing manufacturing footprint. The competitive environment includes the impact of a changing retail environment, including the shifting of consumer purchase practices towards e-commerce and other channels. Moreover, our customer base includes large, sophisticated trade customers who have many choices and demand competitive products, services and prices. We believe that we can best compete in the current environment by focusing on introducing new and innovative products, building strong brands, enhancing trade customer and consumer value with our product and service offerings, optimizing our regional footprint and trade distribution channels, increasing productivity, improving quality, lowering costs, and taking other efficiency-enhancing measures.
Seasonality
The Company's quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including holiday-driven promotional periods. In each fiscal year, the Company's total revenue and operating margins are typically highest in the third and fourth quarter. In 2020, we realized a seasonality pattern that differed from historical periods due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, we expect the seasonality of revenues and operating margins to be altered by the pandemic.
Raw Materials and Purchased Components
We are generally not dependent upon any one source for raw materials or purchased components essential to our business. In areas where a single supplier is used, alternative sources are generally available and can be developed within the normal manufacturing environment. Some supply disruptions and unanticipated costs may be incurred in transitioning to a new supplier if a prior single supplier relationship was abruptly interrupted or terminated. In the event of a disruption, we believe that we will be able to qualify and use alternate materials, sometimes at premium costs, and that such raw materials and components will be available in adequate quantities to meet forecasted production schedules. In 2020, our industry was impacted by COVID-19 pandemic related supply constraints with our suppliers, factories and logistics providers. In 2021, pandemic related supply constraints and disruptions may continue to impact our business operations.
Working Capital
The company maintains varying levels of working capital throughout the year to support business needs and customer requirements through various inventory management techniques, including demand forecasting and planning. We ended 2020 with an elevated backlog of orders that we expect to normalize throughout 2021. Please see the Financial Condition and Liquidity section of the “Management's Discussion and Analysis” section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our working capital requirements and processes.
Trademarks, Licenses and Patents
We consider the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets we own, and the licenses we hold, in the aggregate, to be a valuable asset. Whirlpool is the owner of a number of trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. The most important trademarks to North America are Whirlpool, Maytag, JennAir, KitchenAid and Amana. The most important trademarks to EMEA are Whirlpool, KitchenAid, Bauknecht, Indesit, Hotpoint* and Ignis. The most important trademarks to Latin America are Consul, Brastemp, Whirlpool, KitchenAid and Acros. The most important trademarks to Asia are Whirlpool and Royalstar (which is licensed to us). We receive royalties from licensing our trademarks to third parties to manufacture, sell and service certain products bearing the Whirlpool, Maytag, KitchenAid and Amana brand names. We continually apply for and obtain patents globally. The primary purpose in obtaining patents is to protect our designs, technologies, products and services.

*Whirlpool ownership of the Hotpoint brand in the EMEA and Asia Pacific regions is not affiliated with the Hotpoint brand sold in the Americas.

10

Government Regulation and Protection of the Environment
We know that an environmentally sustainable Whirlpool is a more competitive Whirlpool — a company better positioned for long-term success. Our commitment to environmental responsibility is embedded in our operations, and is focused on our three pillars: sustainable plants, sustainable products, and sustainable practices. We comply with all laws and regulations regarding protection of the environment, and in many cases where laws and regulations are less restrictive, we have established and are following our own standards, consistent with our commitment to environmental responsibility.
We believe that we are in compliance, in all material respects, with presently applicable governmental provisions relating to environmental protection in the countries in which we have manufacturing operations. Compliance with these environmental laws and regulations did not have a material effect on capital expenditures, earnings, or our competitive position during 2020 and is not expected to be material in 2021.
The entire major home appliance industry, including Whirlpool, must contend with the adoption of stricter government energy and environmental standards. These standards have been and continue to be phased in over the past several years and include the general phase-out of ozone-depleting chemicals used in refrigeration, and energy and related standards for selected major appliances, regulatory restrictions on the materials content specified for use in our products by some jurisdictions and mandated recycling of our products at the end of their useful lives. Compliance with these various standards, as they become effective, will require some product redesign. However, we believe, based on our understanding of the current state of proposed regulations, that we will be able to develop, manufacture, and market products that comply with these regulations.
Whirlpool participates in environmental assessments and cleanup at a number of locations globally. These include operating and non-operating facilities, previously owned properties and waste sites, including "Superfund" (under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA)) sites. However, based upon our evaluation of the facts and circumstances relating to these sites along with the evaluation of our technical consultants, we do not presently anticipate any material adverse effect on our financial statements arising out of the resolution of these matters or the resolution of any other known governmental proceeding regarding environmental protection matters.
Our operations are also subject to numerous legal and regulatory requirements concerning product energy usage, data privacy, employment conditions and worksite health and safety. These requirements often provide broad discretion to government authorities, and they could be interpreted or revised in ways that delay production or make production more costly. The costs to comply, or associated with any noncompliance, are, or can be, significant and variable from period to period.
Additionally, in line with the guidelines provided by health organizations around the world and consistent with our commitment to employee health and safety as our highest priority, we have added various health and safety measures in our manufacturing, service, sales and administrative offices, warehouse and distribution spaces in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These actions include provision of personal protection equipment to employees, increased manufacturing line spacing or protective barriers to accommodate physical distancing guidelines, temperature screening and increased enablement of remote working. We may incur significant COVID-19-related expenses for additional actions in the future, in line with our commitment to employee health and safety.
Human Capital Management
At Whirlpool, our values guide everything we do. We are committed to the highest standards of ethical and legal conduct and have created an environment where open and honest communication is the expectation, not the exception. We hold our employees to this standard and offer the same in return. Our Integrity Manual was created to help our employees follow our commitment to win the

11

right way. Additionally, our Supplier Code of Conduct formalizes the key principles under which Whirlpool’s suppliers are required to operate.
Our Human Capital Strategy is built around three pillars:
Extraordinary Performance
Our employees are a critical driver of Whirlpool’s global business results. On December 31, 2020, Whirlpool employed approximately 78,000 employees across 13 countries, with 27 percent located within the United States. Outside of the United States, our largest employee populations were located within Brazil, Mexico and China. We regularly monitor various key performance indicators around the human capital priorities of attracting, retaining, and engaging our global talent. In addition, we enable the execution of our strategic priorities by providing all employees with access to training and development opportunities to improve critical skill sets.
Great People
We have a long tradition of measuring employee engagement through our annual employee engagement survey. In 2020, we migrated to a new survey platform to facilitate more frequent measurements of employee engagement and utilized the platform for a global well-being pulse survey strategy in response to COVID-19. We are committed to continued pulse surveys beginning in 2021 with coverage of broader engagement and well-being topics.
Whirlpool offers a variety of programs globally to protect the health and safety of our employees. While we maintain targets for year-over-year reduction of the total recordable incident rate and serious injuries, our goal is always zero. In 2020, we focused on the immediate demands within the context of COVID-19 challenges. Where possible, employees were moved to a remote work environment. In addition, we implemented additional safeguards in our plants consistent with the guidelines provided by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and other health organizations around the world.
Winning Culture
Our culture is underpinned by our enduring values, which have long been pillared by inclusion and diversity. Whirlpool has a history of prioritizing issues such as gender and racial equality among our people. For the past 18 years, Whirlpool Corporation has achieved a perfect 100 on the Corporate Equality Index, marking nearly two decades of commitment to inclusion in the workplace. This broad organizational commitment was again demonstrated in 2020 with extensive participation in our second annual global inclusion week. Additionally, Whirlpool’s employee resource groups (ERGs) continue to raise awareness for an inclusive culture, representing eight under-represented groups in North America; two in our Europe, Middle East, Africa region; four in the Latin America region; and one in Asia.
And, importantly, in 2020 we furthered our commitment by establishing a pledge to Equality and Fairness for our United States Black colleagues. At its core, the pledge is a zero tolerance policy for racial marginalization within the Company. The pledge is a multi-year U.S. based action plan, with regular messaging across the entire organization. While our actions focus on our “four walls” and our local communities, we hope that these actions will have a ripple effect on society at large. In addition, Whirlpool Corporation announced that its Chairman and CEO Marc Bitzer is a founding member of OneTen, a coalition of leading executives with the mission to train, hire and advance one million Black Americans over the next 10 years into family-sustaining jobs with opportunities for advancement.
For additional information, please see Whirlpool’s investor website, and forthcoming 2021 Proxy Statement and Sustainability Report, which we expect to release in early March 2021. The contents of our Sustainability Report and investor website are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC.




12

Other Information
For information about the challenges and risks associated with our foreign operations, see "Risk Factors" under Item 1A.
Whirlpool is a major supplier of laundry, refrigeration, cooking and dishwasher home appliances to Lowe's, a North American retailer. Net sales attributable to Lowe's in 2020, 2019 and 2018, were approximately 13%, 13% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net sales. Lowe's also represented approximately 14% of our consolidated accounts receivable as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
For information on our global restructuring plans, and the impact of these plans on our operating segments, see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Information About Our Executive Officers
The following table sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers on February 11, 2021, the positions and offices they held on that date, and the year they first became executive officers:
Name		Office		First Became
an Executive
Officer		Age	Marc R. Bitzer		Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer		2006		56	James W. Peters		Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer		2016		51	João C. Brega		Executive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Latin America		2012		57	Joseph T. Liotine		Executive Vice President and President, Whirlpool North America		2014		48	Gilles Morel		Executive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Europe, Middle East & Africa		2019		55	Shengpo (Samuel) Wu		Executive Vice President and President, Whirlpool Asia		2019		54 
The executive officers named above were elected by our Board of Directors to serve in the office indicated until the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the annual meeting of stockholders in 2021 and until a successor is chosen and qualified or until the executive officer's earlier resignation or removal. Each of our executive officers has held the position set forth in the table above or has served Whirlpool in various executive or administrative capacities for at least the past five years, except for Mr. Wu and Mr. Morel. Prior to joining Whirlpool in February 2017, Mr. Wu for the previous five years served as President and Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, of Osram GmbH, and before joining Osram in 2012, worked for Honeywell Process Solutions and General Electric in various leadership roles. Prior to joining Whirlpool in April 2019, Mr. Morel served for two years as CEO of Northern and Central Europe for Groupe Savencia. Prior to that, he worked for 27 years at Mars Inc. in various leadership positions, most recently as Regional President, Europe & Eurasia for Mars Chocolate.
Available Information
Financial results and investor information (including Whirlpool's Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports) are accessible at Whirlpool's website: investors.whirlpoolcorp.com. Copies of our Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K reports and amendments, if any, are available free of charge through our website on the same day they are filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.
We routinely post important information for investors on our website, whirlpoolcorp.com, in the "Investors" section. We also intend to update the Hot Topics Q&A portion of this webpage as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investors section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls,
