PART I
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report on Form 10-K and other reports, statements, and information that Walmart Inc. (which individually or together with its subsidiaries, as the context otherwise requires, is referred to as "we," "Walmart" or the "Company") has filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") or may file with or furnish to the SEC in the future, and prior or future public announcements and presentations that we or our management have made or may make, include or may include, or incorporate or may incorporate by reference, statements that may be deemed to be "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act"), that are intended to enjoy the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act as well as protections afforded by other federal securities laws.
Nature of Forward-Looking Statements
Such forward-looking statements are not statements of historical facts, but instead express our estimates or expectations for our consolidated, or one of our segment's, economic performance or results of operations for future periods or as of future dates or events or developments that may occur in the future or discuss our plans, objectives or goals. These forward-looking statements may relate to:
•the growth of our business or change in our competitive position in the future or in or over particular periods;
•the amount, number, growth, increase, reduction or decrease in or over certain periods, of or in certain financial items or measures or operating measures, including our earnings per share, net sales, comparable store and club sales, our Walmart U.S. operating segment's eCommerce sales, liabilities, expenses of certain categories, expense leverage, returns, capital and operating investments or expenditures of particular types and new store openings;
•investments and capital expenditures we will make and how certain of those investments and capital expenditures are expected to be financed;
•our increasing investments in eCommerce, technology, supply chain, store remodels and other omni-channel customer initiatives, such as same day pickup and delivery;
•our workforce strategy;
•volatility in currency exchange rates affecting our or one of our segments' results of operations;
•the Company continuing to provide returns to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, the use of share repurchase authorization over a certain period or the source of funding of a certain portion of our share repurchases;
•our sources of liquidity, including our cash, continuing to be adequate or sufficient to fund our operations, finance our global investment and expansion activities, pay dividends and fund share repurchases;
•cash flows from operations, our current cash position and access to capital markets will continue to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating cash needs;
•the reclassification of amounts related to our derivatives;
•our effective tax rate for certain periods and the realization of certain net deferred tax assets and the effects of resolutions of tax-related matters;
•the effect of adverse decisions in, or settlement of, litigation or other proceedings or investigations to which we are subject;
•the effect on the Company's results of operations or financial position of the Company's adoption of certain new, or amendments to existing, accounting standards; or
•our commitments, intentions, plans or goals related to the sustainability of our environment and supply chains, the promotion of economic opportunity or other societal initiatives.
Our forward-looking statements may also include statements of our strategies, plans and objectives for our operations, including areas of future focus in our operations, and the assumptions underlying any of the forward-looking statements we make. The forward-looking statements we make can typically be identified by the use therein of words and phrases such as "aim," "anticipate," "believe," "could be," "could increase," "could occur," "could result," "continue," "estimate," "expansion," "expect," "expectation," "expected to be," "focus," "forecast," "goal," "grow," "guidance," "intend," "invest," "is expected,"
4

"may continue," "may fluctuate," "may grow," "may impact," "may result," "objective," "plan," "priority," "project," "strategy," "to be," "we'll," "we will," "will add," "will allow," "will be," "will benefit," "will change," "will come in at," "will continue," "will decrease," "will grow," "will have," "will impact," "will include," "will increase," "will open," "will remain," "will result," "will stay," "will strengthen," "would be," "would decrease" and "would increase," variations of such words or phrases, other phrases commencing with the word "will" or similar words and phrases denoting anticipated or expected occurrences or results.
The forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. As a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. Consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. We cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law.
5

ITEM 1.	BUSINESS 
General
Walmart Inc. ("Walmart," the "Company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better – anytime and anywhere – by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through eCommerce. Through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our eCommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. Each week, we serve over 240 million customers who visit approximately 11,400 stores and numerous eCommerce websites under 54 banners in 26 countries.
Our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. Making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. By leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("EDLP"). EDLP is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. Everyday low cost ("EDLC") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers.
Our operations comprise three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 for our United States ("U.S.") and Canadian operations. We consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. Our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2021 ("fiscal 2021"), January 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020") and January 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019"). During fiscal 2021, we generated total revenues of $559.2 billion, which was primarily comprised of net sales of $555.2 billion.
We maintain our principal offices in Bentonville, Arkansas. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "WMT."
The Development of Our Company
The businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when Sam M. Walton opened a franchise Ben Franklin variety store in Newport, Arkansas. In 1946, his brother, James L. Walton, opened a similar store in Versailles, Missouri. Until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. In 1983, we opened our first Sam's Club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. In 1998, we opened our first Walmart Neighborhood Market. In 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in Mexico and, as of January 31, 2021, our Walmart International segment conducted business in 25 countries.
In 2000, we began our first eCommerce initiative by creating both walmart.com and samsclub.com. Since then, our eCommerce presence has continued to grow. In 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its Site to Store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. To date, we now have approximately 7,300 pickup and 5,200 delivery locations globally. In recent years, we have heavily invested in omni-channel and eCommerce innovation, as well as made several eCommerce acquisitions to better serve our customers. These investments have enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, incubate digitally-native brands, and expand our assortment and service offerings in stores and on walmart.com. We have also continued to enhance our eCommerce initiatives internationally, such as with our acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart Private Limited ("Flipkart"), which is our ecosystem in India that includes eCommerce platforms of Flipkart and Myntra as well as PhonePe, a digital transaction platform.
In fiscal 2021, we launched Walmart+ in the U.S., a new membership offering with omni-channel shopping benefits that currently include unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimum, unlimited delivery from store, fuel discounts, and mobile scan & go for a streamlined in-store shopping experience. We are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, services, eCommerce sites and supply chain combined with our more than 2.3 million associates as of January 31, 2021 to better serve our customers. Together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates customer relationships where customers view Walmart as their primary destination.
During fiscal 2021, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. While we have incurred incremental costs associated with operating during a global health crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic has also accelerated our business growth and eCommerce expansion. We have continued to invest in our omni-channel offering which resonates with customers around the world who are increasingly seeking convenience.
6

Information About Our Segments
We are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as eCommerce, located throughout the U.S., Africa, Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India and Mexico. The Company also engaged in operations in the U.K. and Japan, both of which were classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2021. We also operated in Argentina and Brazil prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in November 2020 and the majority stake of Walmart Brazil in fiscal 2019. Refer to Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for information on these divestitures. Our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: Walmart U.S., Walmart International and Sam's Club, which are further described below. Each segment contributes to the Company's operating results differently. However, each has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the Company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the Walmart International segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Walmart U.S. Segment
Walmart U.S. is our largest segment and operates in the U.S., including in all 50 states, Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico. Walmart U.S. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "Walmart" and "Walmart Neighborhood Market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other eCommerce brands. Walmart U.S. had net sales of $370.0 billion for fiscal 2021, representing 67% of our fiscal 2021 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $341.0 billion and $331.7 billion for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. Of our three segments, Walmart U.S. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). In addition, Walmart U.S. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the Company's net sales and operating income.
Omni-channel. Walmart U.S. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, through services such as pickup and delivery, ship-from-store, and digital pharmacy fulfillment options. As of January 31, 2021, we had approximately 3,750 pickup locations and 3,000 delivery locations. Our Walmart+ membership incorporates several service offerings which provide enhanced omni-channel shopping experiences and benefits for members. We have several eCommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com. We define eCommerce sales as sales initiated by customers digitally and fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and leveraging our stores. The following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of January 31, 2021:
Minimum Square Feet		Maximum Square Feet		Average Square Feet	Supercenters (general merchandise and grocery)		69,000 			260,000 			178,000 		Discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery)		30,000 			221,000 			106,000 		
Neighborhood markets(1) (grocery)
28,000 			65,000 			42,000 	 
(1)     Excludes other small formats.
Merchandise. Walmart U.S. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below:
•Grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including dry grocery, snacks, dairy, meat, produce, deli & bakery, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, pet supplies, household chemicals, paper goods and baby products;
•General merchandise includes:
◦Entertainment (e.g., electronics, toys, seasonal merchandise, wireless, video games, movies, music and books);
◦Hardlines (e.g., automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and stationery);
◦Apparel (e.g., apparel for men, women, girls, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and
◦Home (e.g., housewares and small appliances, bed & bath, furniture and home organization, home furnishings, home decor, fabrics and crafts).
•Health and wellness includes pharmacy, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products, optical services and clinical services.

Walmart U.S. recently launched Walmart+, a membership offering providing omni-channel shopping benefits such as unlimited free shipping on eligible items with no order minimums, as well as delivery and other benefits which help customers save more time and money. Walmart U.S. also offers an in-house advertising offering via Walmart Connect, supply chain and fulfillment capabilities to online marketplace sellers via Walmart Fulfillment Services, as well as quality, affordable, and accessible healthcare via Walmart Health. Additional service offerings include fuel and financial services and related products, such as money orders, prepaid cards, money (wire) transfers, check cashing and bill payment. Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in Walmart U.S. We also market lines of merchandise under our private-label brands, including brands such as: "Allswell," "Athletic Works," "Bonobos," "Eloquii,"
7

"Equate," "Freshness Guaranteed," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside," "No Boundaries," "Onn," "Ozark Trail," "Parent's Choice," "Sam's Choice," "Scoop," "Spring Valley," "SwissTech," "Time and Tru" and "Wonder Nation." The Company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "Better Homes & Gardens," "Farberware," "Pioneer Woman" and "Russell."
Periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. When revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability.
Operations. Historically, many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets were generally open 24 hours each day. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we reduced store hours to allow for additional cleaning and sanitizing but expanded store hours slightly toward the end of fiscal 2021. Consistent with its strategy, Walmart U.S. continues to develop technology tools and services that help better serve customers and help stores operate more efficiently, such as pickup and delivery, Walmart+, ship-from-store and other initiatives which provide convenient and seamless omni-channel shopping experiences.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Walmart U.S.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31. However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
Competition. Walmart U.S. competes with omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, as well as eCommerce retailers. Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. These programs include the following:
•EDLP: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity;
•EDLC: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; and
•Omni-channel offerings such as pickup and delivery and our new Walmart+ membership offering, all of which enhance convenience and seek to serve customers in the ways they want to be served.
Distribution. For fiscal 2021, the majority of Walmart U.S.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our 156 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the U.S. The remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. General merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 32 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, as well as leveraging our ability to ship directly from approximately 3,000 stores.
Walmart International Segment
Walmart International is our second largest segment and operated in 25 countries outside of the U.S as of January 31, 2021. Walmart International operated through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, Chile, and China, as well as our businesses classified as held for sale in Japan and the United Kingdom as of January 31, 2021. Walmart International also operates through our majority-owned subsidiaries in Africa (which includes Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, South Africa, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia), Central America (which includes Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua), India and Mexico. Walmart International previously operated in Argentina and Brazil prior to the sale of Walmart Argentina in fiscal 2021 and the majority stake of Walmart Brazil in fiscal 2019. Refer to Note 12 for discussion of recent divestitures.
Walmart International includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. These categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including Sam's Clubs) and cash & carry, as well as eCommerce through walmart.com.mx, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites. Walmart International had net sales of $121.4 billion for fiscal 2021, representing 22% of our fiscal 2021 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $120.1 billion and $120.8 billion for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. The segment's net sales were negatively impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations for all years presented. The gross profit rate is lower than that of Walmart U.S. primarily because of its merchandise mix.
8

Walmart International's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by Walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates. We are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth. As such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our Walmart International portfolio for the long-term, which include the following highlights over the last three years:
•Acquisition of a majority stake of Flipkart in August 2018.
•Divestiture of 80 percent of Walmart Brazil in August 2018. 
•Divestiture of the Walmart Chile banking operations in December 2018 and the divestiture of the Walmart Canada banking operations in April 2019.
•Divestiture of Walmart Argentina in November 2020.
•Divestiture of Asda Group Limited ("Asda”), our retail operations in the U.K., in February 2021.
•Divestiture of a majority stake in Seiyu, our retail operations in Japan, in March 2021.
Omni-channel. Walmart International provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce, such as through pickup and delivery services in most of our markets, our marketplaces such as Flipkart in India, and a digital transaction platform anchored in payments such as PhonePe in India. In China, our partnerships with JD.com and JD Daojia provide customers one-hour delivery by leveraging Walmart stores as fulfillment centers.
Generally, retail units' selling area range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet. Our wholesale stores' selling area generally range in size from 24,000 square feet to 156,000 square feet. As of January 31, 2021, Walmart International had approximately 3,000 pickup and 2,200 delivery locations.
Merchandise. The merchandising strategy for Walmart International is similar to that of our operations in the U.S. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. While brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged U.S. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. Along with the private brands we market globally, such as "Equate," "George," "Great Value," "Holiday Time," "Mainstays," "Marketside" and "Parent's Choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "Aurrera," "Cambridge," "Lider," "Myntra," and "PhonePe." In addition, we have developed and continue to grow our relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices.
Walmart International also offers fuel, financial services and related products in various markets. Our businesses in Mexico and Canada, for example, offer prepaid cards and money (wire) transfers, and our PhonePe business in India provides a platform that offers mobile and bill payment, person-to-person (P2P) payment, investment and insurance solutions, financial services and advertising. Combined, these offerings did not represent a significant portion of annual segment revenues.
Operations. The hours of operation for operating units in Walmart International vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. Toward the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, government mandates led to extensive store and operational closures in several of our international markets as well as limitations on certain merchandise sales in select markets. While most closed stores and warehouses resumed operations by the end of fiscal 2021, store hours have been partially reduced or modified in several markets. Additionally, several markets implemented enhanced safety and sanitization protocols, as well as provided increased customer options and capacity for pickup and delivery services.
Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Walmart International's business is seasonal to a certain extent. Historically, its highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. The seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
Competition. Walmart International competes with omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash & carry operations and convenience stores, and eCommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses. Our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. We believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an EDLP approach. Additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate.
9

Distribution. We utilize a total of 221 distribution facilities located in Canada, Central America, Chile, China, India, Mexico and South Africa, as well as Japan and the United Kingdom, whose operations are classified as held for sale as of January 31, 2021, and subsequently divested in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. Through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the Walmart International segment. During fiscal 2021, the majority of Walmart International's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. Suppliers ship the remainder of Walmart International's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. Across the segment, we have efficient networks connecting physical stores and distribution and fulfillment centers which facilitate the movement of goods to where our customers live. We ship merchandise purchased by customers on our eCommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 83 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers, more than 2,800 eCommerce sort centers and last-mile delivery facilities in India, as well as our physical retail stores.
Sam's Club Segment
Sam's Club operates in 44 states in the U.S. and in Puerto Rico. Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com. Sam's Club had net sales of $63.9 billion for fiscal 2021, representing 11% of our consolidated fiscal 2021 net sales, and had net sales of $58.8 billion and $57.8 billion for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. As a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. Sam's Club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments.
Membership. The following two options are available to members:
Plus Membership		Club Membership	Annual Membership Fee	$100		$45	Number of Add-on Memberships ($40 each)	Up to 16		Up to 8	Eligible for Cash Rewards	Yes		No 
All memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. Plus Members are eligible for Cash Rewards, which is a benefit that provides 2% back on qualifying Sam's Club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. The amount earned can be used for purchases or redeemed for cash. Plus Members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses.
Omni-channel. Sam's Club is a membership-only warehouse club which provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and eCommerce through such services as Curbside Pickup, mobile Scan & Go, and ship-from-club. Members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, including those not found in our clubs, online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications. The warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet.
Merchandise. Sam's Club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories:
•Grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items;
•Fuel, tobacco and other categories consists of gasoline stations and tobacco;
•Home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, tools and power equipment, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses, and tire and battery centers;
•Technology, office and entertainment includes consumer electronics and accessories, software, video games, office supplies, appliances, and third-party gift cards; and
•Health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs.
In addition, the Member's Mark private label brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value.
Operations. Operating hours for Sam's Clubs are generally Monday through Friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Additionally, most club locations offer Plus Members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours Monday through Saturday, starting at 8:00 a.m. While store operating hours generally remained stable during the COVID-19 pandemic, designated “Hero Hours” were also established for first responders, health care workers, and associates. Consistent with its strategy, Sam's Club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience. During the pandemic, Curbside Pickup was launched at all clubs to help provide fast, easy and contact-free shopping for members. Sam's Club also offers "Scan & Go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line.
10

Seasonal Aspects of Operations. Sam's Club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. Historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending January 31. However, the COVID-19 pandemic may have an impact on consumer behaviors that could result in temporary changes in the seasonal fluctuations of our business.
Competition. Sam's Club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is Costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and eCommerce retailers and catalog businesses. At Sam's Club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our Plus and Club members. Our eCommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete and recently enabled the launch of Curbside Pickup across all clubs.
Distribution. During fiscal 2021, the majority of Sam's Club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from Sam's Club's 27 dedicated distribution facilities, located strategically throughout the U.S., or from some of the Walmart U.S. segment's distribution facilities, which service the Sam's Club segment for certain items. Suppliers shipped the remainder of the Sam's Club segment's club purchases directly to Sam's Club locations. Sam's Club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, 11 dedicated eCommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers.
Sam's Club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. The segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs.
Intellectual Property
We regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. We have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of U.S. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. We have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties.
Suppliers and Supply Chain
As a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes both U.S. and international suppliers from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. In many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. Our purchases may represent a significant percentage of the annual sales for a number of our suppliers, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers. Our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. Our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members.
Government Regulation
As a company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of the United States and multiple foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, which may differ among jurisdictions. For additional information, see the risk factors herein in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" under the sub-caption “Legal, Tax, Regulatory, Compliance, Reputational and Other Risks".

11

Human Capital Management
Our commitment to help people around the world save money and live better is delivered by our associates who make the difference for our customers every day. As of the end of fiscal 2021, we employed more than 2.3 million associates worldwide, with 1.6 million associates in the U.S. and 0.7 million associates internationally. In the U.S., approximately 94% of these associates are hourly and approximately 64% are full-time.
We believe the strength of our workforce is a significant contributor to our success. Walmart is a place of opportunity, not only as a foundational entry point to develop critical skills that are relevant for a variety of careers, but also a place where people can grow in their careers across our global omni-channel business. As customer demands and technology change the nature of work, we need to attract, develop and retain associates to thrive in an ever-changing omni-channel environment. Approximately 75% of our U.S. salaried store, club and supply chain management started their careers in hourly positions. We believe our focus on improving career paths for our associates through robust training, competitive wages, new ways of working, and opportunities for advancement has improved turnover in the U.S. over the past few years.
Our workforce strategy includes the following strategic priorities:
Inclusion - Build a Walmart for everyone: a diverse, equitable and inclusive company, where associates' ideas and opinions matter. We are focused on creating an inclusive culture and a diverse associate base, where all associates believe they belong and are empowered to be themselves, which we believe is important in serving our customers now and in the future. Management provides recurring culture, diversity, equity and inclusion updates to senior leadership, including our President and CEO, and the Compensation, Management and Development Committee of the Board of Directors. Of the more than 2.3 million associates employed worldwide, 54% identify as women. In the U.S., 47% of the 1.6 million associates identify as ethnically diverse.
We review our processes regarding our commitment to fair-pay practices. We are committed to creating a performance culture where associates are rewarded based on meaningful factors such as qualifications, experience, performance and the type of work they do.
To build a company where associates feel valued and heard, we gather and respond to associates’ feedback in a variety of ways, including but not limited to an anonymous, periodic, formal, associate engagement survey, our Open Door process, and one-on-one interactions. Management reviews the results of feedback obtained from our formal associate engagement survey. Feedback and suggestions received through these channels have led to meaningful changes in our business, including a new U.S. attendance policy, for example.
Well-being - Focus on the physical, emotional, and financial well-being of our associates. We invest in our associates by offering competitive wages including bonuses based on Company performance, as well as a broad range of benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements and believe these investments in our associates are important to our future. In the U.S., we offer affordable healthcare coverage to our full-time and eligible part-time associates, as well as Company paid benefits such as a store discount card or Sam's Club membership, 401(k) match, maternity leave, a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates, paid time off, Associate Stock Purchase Plan match, life insurance and behavioral health services. Certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements.
In fiscal 2021, we added incremental benefits to support associate health and well-being during the COVID-19 pandemic. We provided extra pay and benefits, including special cash bonuses totaling $1.6 billion, and the introduction of the COVID-19 Emergency Leave Policy in the U.S. See "COVID-19 Updates" in Management's Discussion and Analysis for additional information regarding our response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Growth - Provide ongoing growth, development and learning opportunities for associates and continue to attract talent with new skills. To help associates acquire the experiences and skills needed for success in the jobs of today and tomorrow, we have invested in their development – including new roles and career paths, cross-training, on-the-job coaching, and formal, classroom-style training such as Walmart Academy in the U.S. We also provide access to educational opportunities for our eligible associates through our Live Better U program, which provides a pathway to earn a high school diploma at no cost or a college degree for $1 a day, as well as multiple digital learning opportunities.
Digital - Accelerate digital transformation and ways of working to improve the associate experience and drive business results. To deliver a seamless customer and associate experience, we continue to invest in digital tools to improve associate productivity, engagement, and performance. As more customers shop digitally, we have adapted by adding more roles in eCommerce fulfillment and our home office associates have accelerated tech-based solutions that enhance the customer and associate experiences.
12
