PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
    W. R. Berkley Corporation is an insurance holding company that is among the largest commercial lines writers in the United States and operates worldwide in two segments of the property casualty insurance business:

•Insurance - predominantly commercial insurance business, including excess and surplus lines, admitted lines and specialty personal lines throughout the United States, as well as insurance business in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Mexico, Scandinavia, Asia and Australia.

•Reinsurance & Monoline Excess - reinsurance business on a facultative and treaty basis, primarily in the United States, the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Australia, the Asia-Pacific region and South Africa, as well as operations that solely retain risk on an excess basis.
    Our two reporting segments are each composed of individual operating units that serve a market defined by geography, products, services or industry served. Each of our operating units is positioned close to its customer base and participates in a niche market requiring specialized knowledge. This strategy of decentralized operations allows each of our units to identify and respond quickly and effectively to changing market conditions and specific customer needs, while capitalizing on the benefits of centralized capital, investment and reinsurance management, and corporate actuarial, financial, enterprise risk management and legal staff support.
    Our business approach is focused on meeting the needs of our customers, maintaining a high quality balance sheet, and allocating capital to our best opportunities. New businesses are started when opportunities are identified and when the right talent and expertise are found to lead a business. Of our 53 operating units, 46 have been organized and developed internally and seven have been added through acquisition.
    Net premiums written, as reported based on United States generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), for each of our operating segments for each of the past three years were as follows:
Year Ended December 31,	(In thousands)	2020		2019		2018	Net premiums written:					Insurance	$	6,347,101 			$	6,086,009 			$	5,791,905 	Reinsurance & Monoline Excess	915,336 			777,490 			641,322 		Total	$	7,262,437 			$	6,863,499 			$	6,433,227 								Percentage of net premiums written:						Insurance	87.4 	%		88.7 	%		90.0 	%	Reinsurance & Monoline Excess	12.6 			11.3 			10.0 		Total	100.0 	%		100.0 	%		100.0 	% 
Thirty of our insurance company subsidiaries are rated by A.M. Best Company, Inc. ("A.M. Best") and have financial strength ratings of A+ (Superior) (the second highest rating out of 15 possible ratings). A.M. Best's ratings are based upon factors of concern to policyholders, insurance agents and brokers and are not directed toward the protection of investors. A.M. Best states: “The Financial Strength Rating opinion addresses the relative ability of an insurer to meet its ongoing insurance obligations. The ratings are not assigned to specific insurance policies or contracts and do not address any other risk.” A.M. Best reviews its ratings on a periodic basis, and its ratings of the Company's subsidiaries are therefore subject to change.
Our twenty-four insurance company subsidiaries rated by Standard & Poor's (“S&P”) have financial strength ratings of A+ (the seventh highest rating out of twenty-seven possible ratings).
Our Moody's financial strength ratings are A1 for Berkley Insurance Company, Berkley Regional Insurance Company and Admiral Insurance Company (the sixth highest rating out of twenty-one possible ratings).
Our twenty-six insurance company subsidiaries rated by Fitch Ratings ("Fitch") have insurer financial strength ratings of A+ (the seventh highest rating out of twenty-seven possible ratings).
1


The following sections describe our reporting segments and their operating units in greater detail. These operating units underwrite on behalf of one or more affiliated insurance companies within the group. The operating units are identified by us for descriptive purposes only and are not legal entities, but for marketing purposes may sometimes be referred to individually as "a Berkley company" or collectively as "Berkley companies." Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Form 10-K to “Berkley,” “we,” “us,” “our,” the “Company” or similar terms refer to W. R. Berkley Corporation together with its subsidiaries and operating units. W. R. Berkley Corporation is a Delaware corporation formed in 1970.
Insurance
Our U.S.-based operating units predominantly underwrite commercial insurance business primarily throughout the United States, although many units offer coverage globally, focusing on the following general areas:
Excess & Surplus Lines: A number of our operating units are dedicated to the U.S. excess and surplus lines market. They serve a diverse group of customers that often have complex risk or unique exposures that typically fall outside the underwriting guidelines of the standard insurance market. Lines of business underwritten by our excess and surplus lines operating units include premises operations, commercial automobile, property, products liability, general liability and professional liability lines. Products are generally distributed through wholesale agents and brokers.
Industry Specialty: Certain other operating units focus on providing specialty coverages to customers within a particular industry that are best served by underwriters and claims professionals with specialized knowledge of that industry. They offer multiple lines of business with policies tailored to address these unique exposures, often with the flexibility of providing coverages on either an admitted or a non-admitted basis in the U.S., as well as internationally. Each operating unit delivers its products through one or more distribution channels, including retail and wholesale agents, brokers, and managing general agents (MGAs), depending on the customer and the particular risks insured.
Product Specialty: Other operating units specialize in providing specific lines of insurance coverage, such as workers’ compensation or professional liability, to a wide range of customers. They offer insurance products, analytical tools and risk management services such as loss control and claims management that enable clients to manage their risk appropriately. Business is typically written on an admitted basis, although some units may offer non-admitted products in the U.S. and offer products internationally. Independent agents and brokers are the primary means of distribution.
Regional: Certain operating units offer standard insurance products and services focused on meeting the specific needs of a geographically differentiated customer base. Key clients of these units are small-to-midsized businesses. These regionally focused operating units provide a broad array of commercial insurance products to customers primarily in 45 states and the District of Columbia and have developed expertise in niches that reflect local economies. They are organized geographically in order to provide them with the flexibility to adapt quickly to local market conditions and customer needs.
In addition, through our non-U.S. insurance operating units, we write business in more than 60 countries worldwide, with branches or offices in 29 locations outside the United States, including the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, South America, Canada, Mexico, Scandinavia, Asia and Australia. In each of our operating territories, we have built decentralized structures that allow products and services to be tailored to each regional customer base. Our businesses are managed by teams of professionals with expertise in local markets and knowledge of regional environments.
In addition to providing insurance products, certain operating units also provide a wide variety of fee-based services, including claims, administrative and consulting services.
Operating units comprising the Insurance segment are as follows:
Acadia Insurance is a Northeast regional property casualty underwriter offering a broad portfolio of products exclusively through local independent agents in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. In addition to its general offerings, Acadia has specialized expertise in insuring regional industries such as construction, service contractors, lumber, and transportation.
Admiral Insurance provides excess and surplus lines coverage for commercial risks that generally consist of hard-to- place, specialized risks that involve moderate to high degrees of hazard. In both general liability and professional lines, Admiral has a broad line of products to meet the needs of existing as well as emerging opportunities. The distribution of products is limited solely to wholesale brokers.
Berkley Accident and Health underwrites accident and health insurance and reinsurance products in four primary areas: medical stop loss, managed care, special risk and group captive. It has a diversified product and service portfolio serving a range of clients from small employers, health care organizations, and membership groups to Fortune 500 companies.
2


Berkley Agribusiness offers insurance for larger commercial risks across the United States involved in the supply, storage, handling, processing and distribution of commodities related to the agriculture and food industries.     
Berkley Alliance Managers offers tailored insurance coverages and comprehensive risk management solutions designed to enhance profitability and reduce susceptibility to loss in four target markets - Design Professionals, Construction Professionals, Accounting Professionals and miscellaneous non-medical Service Professionals.
Berkley Aspire provides excess and surplus lines coverage on a national basis to small to medium-sized insureds with low to moderate insurance risk. Its product lines include general liability, liquor liability and some property and inland marine coverage. It serves a limited distribution channel, including select Berkley member company agents.
Berkley Asset Protection provides specialized insurance coverages for fine arts and jewelry exposures to commercial and individual clients.
Berkley Canada underwrites specialty, casualty and surety lines of business on behalf of the Canadian branch of Berkley Insurance Company. It specializes in commercial casualty and professional liability, and offers a broad portfolio of risk products that include commercial general liability, umbrella, professional liability, directors and officers, commercial property and surety, in addition to niche products for specific industries such as technology, life sciences and travel.
Berkley Custom Insurance focuses on the excess casualty insurance market and offers umbrella and excess liability coverages to clients from the small/middle market to Fortune 1000 companies in target classes of business including construction, manufacturing, retail/wholesale trade, finance, real estate, public entities and oil & gas.
Berkley Cyber Risk Solutions focuses on insurance and risk management products that respond to the changing cyber security vulnerabilities of organizations around the world. It offers specialty commercial cyber insurance coverages on a worldwide basis to clients of all sizes.
Berkley Entertainment underwrites property casualty insurance products, both on an admitted and non-admitted basis, for clients in the entertainment industry and sports-related organizations.
Berkley Environmental underwrites casualty and specialty environmental products for environmental customers including contractors, consultants, property owners and facilities operators.
Berkley FinSecure serves the insurance needs of companies in the financial services sector and beyond. Its Berkley Crime division provides crime and fidelity related insurance products for commercial organizations, financial sector businesses and governmental entities on a primary and excess basis. Its Financial Services segment provides management liability and fidelity products to financial institutions, insurance companies and asset management firms.
Berkley Fire & Marine offers a broad range of preferred inland marine and related property risks and services to customers throughout the United States. Products are distributed through independent agents and brokers.
Berkley Global Product Recall Management provides worldwide insurance protection and technical assistance to help clients with the prevention, management and indemnification of product recall and contamination events.
Berkley Healthcare underwrites customized, comprehensive insurance solutions for the full spectrum of healthcare providers. Through Berkley Healthcare Medical Professional, it offers a wide range of medical professional coverages. Through Berkley Healthcare Financial Lines, it offers a comprehensive suite of financial lines coverages.
Berkley Human Services provides property casualty insurance coverages to human services organizations, including nonprofit and for-profit organizations, public schools, sports and recreational organizations, and special events. Its product offerings include traditional primary coverages and risk purchasing groups, as well as alternative market solutions for clients who wish to retain a larger share of their risks.
Berkley Industrial specializes in writing workers' compensation insurance for diverse high hazard industries in select states. Its products are distributed by a select group of independent retail agents.
Berkley Insurance Asia underwrites specialty commercial insurance coverages to clients in North Asia and Southeast Asia through offices in Hong Kong, Singapore, Labuan and Shanghai.
Berkley Insurance Australia underwrites general insurance business in Australia, including professional indemnity insurance for companies of all sizes.
Berkley Latinoamérica is a leading provider of property, casualty, automobile, surety, group life and workers' compensation products and services in its operating territories of Argentina, Brazil, the Caribbean, Colombia, Mexico and Uruguay.
3


Berkley Life Sciences offers a comprehensive spectrum of property casualty products to the life sciences industry on a global basis, including both primary and excess product liability coverages. It serves pharmaceutical and biotech companies, medical device companies, dietary supplement companies, medical and research related software developers, contract research and manufacturing organizations, research institutions and organizations, and other related businesses.
Berkley Luxury Group provides commercial package insurance programs for high-end cooperative, condominium, and quality rental apartment buildings and upscale restaurants in the New York, New Jersey, Chicago and Washington, D.C. metropolitan markets, as well as other select markets.
Berkley Mid-Atlantic Group provides commercial property casualty coverages to a wide variety of businesses in Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Virginia. Focusing on small and middle market accounts, it complements its standard writings with specialized products in areas such as construction.
Berkley Net Underwriters focuses on small and medium-sized commercial risks, using a web-based system to allow producers to quote, bind and service workers' compensation insurance products on behalf of Berkley member insurance companies.
Berkley North Pacific offers preferred insurance products and services to a broad range of small to medium size commercial entities. It operates through independent agents in Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah and Washington.
Berkley Offshore Underwriting Managers is a specialist global underwriter of energy and marine risks. Its three divisions provide specialty insurance products in the energy upstream, energy liability and marine sectors.    
Berkley Oil & Gas provides property casualty products and risk services to the United States energy sector. Its customer base includes risks of all sizes that work in the oil patch, including operators, drillers, geophysical contractors, well-servicing contractors, and manufacturers/distributors of oil field products, as well as those in the renewable energy sector.    
Berkley One provides a customizable suite of personal lines insurance solutions including home, condo/co-op, auto, liability and collectibles. Berkley One targets high net worth individuals and families with sophisticated risk management needs.
Berkley Professional Liability specializes in professional liability insurance for publicly-traded and private entities on a worldwide basis. Its liability coverages include directors and officers, errors and omissions, fiduciary, employment practices, and sponsored insurance agents' errors and omissions. Berkley Transactional, a division of Berkley Professional Liability, underwrites a full suite of transactional insurance products, including representations and warranties insurance, tax opinion insurance and contingency liability insurance.
Berkley Program Specialists is a program management company offering both admitted and non-admitted insurance support on a nationwide basis for commercial casualty and property program administrators with specialized insurance expertise. Its book is built around blocks of homogeneous business, or programs, allowing for efficient processes, effective oversight of existing programs and sound implementation of new programs.    
Berkley Public Entity specializes in providing excess coverage and services to individual governmental and scholastic entities and intergovernmental risk sharing groups. Products include general liability, automobile liability, law enforcement liability, public officials and educator's legal liability, employment practices liability, incidental medical, property and crime.
Berkley Risk provides at-risk and alternative risk insurance program management services for a broad range of groups and individuals including public entity pools, professional associations, captives and self-insured clients. As a third party administrator, it manages workers’ compensation, liability and property claims nationwide.
Berkley Select specializes in underwriting professional liability insurance for law firms and accounting firms, as well as other professional firms and their practices. It also offers executive liability products, including directors and officers liability, employment practices and fiduciary liability, to small to middle market privately held and not for profit customers. Berkley Select provides these insurance products on both an admitted and surplus lines basis.    
Berkley Southeast offers a wide array of commercial lines products in six southeastern states: Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee, specializing in small to mid-sized accounts.    
Berkley Surety provides a full spectrum of surety bonds for construction, environmental and commercial surety accounts in the U.S. and Canada, through an independent agency and broker platform across 20 field locations.    
Berkley Technology Underwriters provides a broad range of first and third-party insurance programs for technology exposures and technology industries on both a local and global basis.
4


Carolina Casualty is a national provider of primary commercial insurance products and services to the transportation industry. It underwrites on an admitted basis in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
Continental Western Group is a Midwest regional property and casualty insurance operation based in Des Moines, Iowa, providing underwriting and risk management services to a broad array of regional businesses in thirteen Midwest states. In addition to its generalist portfolio, Continental Western offers specialty underwriting solutions for diversified agriculture, construction, light manufacturing, transportation, volunteer fire departments, rural utilities and public entities.
Gemini Transportation is a national provider of excess liability insurance for various domestic surface transportation businesses, including the railroad industry as well as the trucking, busing and other industries that use rubber-wheeled vehicles for over-the-road use. It includes Berkley Prime Transportation, which leverages analytics and technology to provide quality products and responsive service to the commercial transportation industry.
Intrepid Direct provides business insurance coverages through a direct distribution model focused on the franchise market, with specialties in the restaurant, garage and fitness industries.
Key Risk specializes in writing workers' compensation insurance for diverse industries including healthcare, human services, transportation, temporary staffing, professional employer organizations and contractors requiring coverage under the United States Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (USL&H). Its products are distributed by a select group of independent retail agents and wholesale brokers located throughout the United States.
Nautilus Insurance Group insures excess and surplus lines risks for small to medium-sized commercial risks with low to moderate susceptibility to loss. It writes commercial excess and surplus lines business nationwide and admitted lines commercial business in a limited number of states. A substantial portion of Nautilus' business is written through its close, long-standing network of general agents, who are chosen on a highly selective basis.
Preferred Employers Insurance focuses exclusively on workers' compensation products and services for businesses based in California. It serves over 15,000 customers covering a broad spectrum of industries throughout the state.    
Union Standard offers preferred commercial property and casualty insurance products and services to a wide range of small to medium size commercial entities with a focus on the construction, farm/ranch, retail and service industries. It operates through independent agents in Arizona, Arkansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas.
Vela Insurance Services specializes in commercial casualty insurance on an excess and surplus lines basis. Its primary focus is on general liability insurance for construction, manufacturing and general casualty clients as well as products liability and miscellaneous professional liability coverages distributed through wholesale insurance brokers.
Verus Underwriting Managers offers general liability, professional liability and property coverages for small to mid-sized commercial risks in the excess and surplus lines insurance market through a select group of appointed wholesale brokers.
W R B Europe is comprised of specialist operating units offering a focused range of insurance products to markets in Continental Europe.
W / R / B Underwriting provides a broad range of leading insurance products to the Lloyd's marketplace, with a concentration in specialist classes of business including property, professional indemnity and crisis management.
5


    The following table sets forth the percentage of gross premiums written by each Insurance operating unit:
 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Acadia Insurance	6.0%		5.9%		6.7%	Admiral Insurance	5.6		5.9		5.8	Berkley Accident and Health	5.2		5.7		5.7	Berkley Agribusiness	1.2		1.1		1.2	Berkley Alliance Managers	2.8		3.0		2.6	Berkley Aspire	0.5		0.4		0.3	Berkley Asset Protection	0.8		0.6		0.6Berkley Canada	1.1		1.0		1.0	Berkley Custom Insurance	3.5		3.1		2.7	Berkley Cyber Risk Solutions	0.5		0.3		0.2	Berkley Entertainment	2.1		2.7		2.6	Berkley Environmental	5.4		4.9		5.1	Berkley FinSecure	0.8		0.9		0.9	Berkley Fire & Marine	0.8		0.7		0.6	Berkley Global Product Recall Management	0.4		0.5		0.5	Berkley Healthcare	1.7		1.6		1.2	Berkley Human Services	1.0		0.8		0.8	Berkley Industrial	0.8		0.9		0.9	Berkley Insurance Asia	0.7		0.6		0.4	Berkley Insurance Australia	1.4		1.2		1.2	Berkley Latinoamérica	2.8		3.6		4.2	Berkley Life Sciences	0.5		0.7		0.8	Berkley Luxury Group	1.1		1.3		1.4	Berkley Mid-Atlantic Group	1.2		1.2		1.2	Berkley Net Underwriters	2.2		3.0		5.0	Berkley North Pacific	0.7		0.8		1.2	Berkley Offshore Underwriting Managers	1.5		1.2		1.1	Berkley Oil & Gas	3.2		4.1		3.6	Berkley One	0.7		0.3		0.2Berkley Professional Liability	4.8		2.9		1.9	Berkley Program Specialists	1.7		1.1		1.1	Berkley Public Entity	0.5		0.4		0.4	Berkley Risk	0.3		0.3		0.2	Berkley Select	2.4		2.8		3.2	Berkley Southeast	2.3		2.0		2.0	Berkley Surety	1.2		1.2		1.3	Berkley Technology Underwriters	0.7		0.7		0.7	Carolina Casualty	0.6		0.7		0.5	Continental Western Group	2.8		2.6		3.5	Gemini Transportation	3.4		2.9		2.3	Intrepid Direct	0.9		0.5		0.3	Key Risk	2.5		2.7		2.9Nautilus Insurance Group	4.9		4.8		5.0	Preferred Employers Insurance	1.9		2.4		2.5	Union Standard	2.0		2.1		2.7	Vela Insurance Services	2.6		2.8		2.6	Verus Underwriting Managers	0.7		0.8		0.9	WRB Europe	1.0		1.4		1.9	W/R/B Underwriting	4.3		3.9		2.9	Other	2.3		3.0		1.5	Total	100.0%		100.0%		100.0% 
    
6


    The following table sets forth percentages of gross premiums written, by line, by our Insurance operations:
Year Ended December 31,		2020		2019		2018	Other liability	35.5%		33.9%		32.4%	Short-tail lines (1)	23.3		23.5		23.5	Professional liability	15.1		13.3		12.0	Workers' compensation	14.3		17.8		20.6	Commercial auto	11.8		11.5		11.5	  Total	100.0%		100.0%		100.0% 
___________________
(1)Short-tail lines include commercial multi-peril (non-liability), inland marine, accident and health, fidelity and surety, boiler    and machinery and other lines.
Reinsurance & Monoline Excess
We provide other insurance companies and self-insureds with assistance in managing their net risk through reinsurance on either a portfolio basis, through treaty reinsurance, or on an individual basis, through facultative reinsurance. Our monoline excess operations solely retain risk on an excess basis.
Operating units comprising the Reinsurance & Monoline Excess segment are as follows:
Berkley Re America provides treaty and facultative reinsurance solutions on a variety of product lines through reinsurance brokers to companies whose primary operations are within the United States and Canada.
Berkley Re Asia Pacific provides property and casualty reinsurance to the Asia Pacific marketplace. With offices in Brisbane, Melbourne, Sydney, Beijing, Hong Kong, Labuan and Singapore, each branch focuses on excess of loss reinsurance, targeting both property and casualty treaty and facultative contracts, through multiple distribution channels.
Berkley Re Solutions is a direct casualty facultative reinsurance underwriter serving clients through a nationwide network of regional offices. Its facultative reinsurance products include automatic, semi-automatic and individual risk assumed reinsurance. It also provides its customers with turnkey products such as cyber, employment practices liability insurance ("EPLI"), and liquor liability insurance to help enhance their clients' product offerings, along with underwriting, claims, and actuarial consultation.
Berkley Re UK writes international property casualty treaty and property facultative accounts. Its territorial scope includes reinsured clients domiciled in the United Kingdom, Europe, Africa, the Middle East and the Caribbean.
Lloyd's Syndicate 2791 Participation represents the Company's minority participation in a Lloyd's syndicate that writes a broad range of mainly short-tail classes of business.
Midwest Employers Casualty provides excess workers' compensation insurance products to individual employers, groups and workers' compensation insurance companies across the United States. Its workers' compensation excess of loss products include self-insured excess of loss coverages and large deductible policies. Through its relationship with Berkley Net Underwriters, Midwest Employers Casualty also offers multi-state coverage for group self-insureds. It has developed sophisticated, proprietary analytical tools and risk management services designed to help its insureds lower their total cost of risk.

7


The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums written by each Reinsurance & Monoline Excess operating unit:
 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Berkley Re America	31.6 	%		34.2 	%		31.7 	%	Berkley Re Asia Pacific	13.5 			12.0 			11.2 		Berkley Re Solutions	14.4 			12.2 			10.7 		Berkley Re UK	14.7 			15.3 			16.8 		Lloyd's Syndicate 2791 Participation	6.0 			4.8 			5.1 		Midwest Employers Casualty	19.8 			21.5 			24.5 	Total	100.0 	%		100.0 	%		100.0 	% 

The following table sets forth the percentages of gross premiums written, by line, by our Reinsurance & Monoline Excess operations:
 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Casualty	58.1 	%		55.7 	%		53.0 	%	Property	22.1 	%		22.8 	%		22.5 	%	Monoline Excess	19.8 	%		21.5 	%		24.5 	%	   Total	100.0 	%		100.0 	%		100.0 	% 

Results by Segment
Summary financial information about our segments is presented on a GAAP basis in the following table:
 	Year Ended December 31,	
 (In thousands)
2020		2019		2018	Insurance			 		 	Revenue	$	6,478,834 			$	6,397,074 			$	6,208,290 		Income before income taxes	668,012 			814,862 			717,154 		Reinsurance & Monoline Excess						Revenue	1,009,203 			877,551 			848,966 		Income before income taxes	205,587 			189,188 			201,001 		Other (1)						Revenue	610,888 			627,571 			634,395 		Loss before income taxes	(168,797)			(151,130)			(106,061)		Total					 	Revenue	$	8,098,925 			$	7,902,196 			$	7,691,651 		Income before income taxes	$	704,802 			$	852,920 			$	812,094 	 
_______________________________________
(1)Represents corporate revenues and expenses, net investment gains and losses, and revenues and expenses from non-insurance businesses that are consolidated for financial reporting purposes.
    





8


The table below represents summary underwriting ratios on a GAAP basis for our segments. Loss ratio is losses and loss expenses incurred expressed as a percentage of net premiums earned. Expense ratio is underwriting expenses expressed as a percentage of net premiums earned. Underwriting expenses do not include expenses related to insurance services or unallocated corporate expenses. Combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio. The combined ratio represents a measure of underwriting profitability, excluding investment income. A number in excess of 100 indicates an underwriting loss; a number below 100 indicates an underwriting profit:
 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Insurance			 		 	Loss ratio	64.9 	%		62.4 	%		62.5 	%	Expense ratio	30.3 			31.1 			32.6 		Combined ratio	95.2 	%		93.5 	%		95.1 	%	Reinsurance & Monoline Excess					 	Loss ratio	61.3 	%		61.5 	%		61.0 	%	Expense ratio	31.8 			35.0 			35.8 		Combined ratio	93.1 	%		96.5 	%		96.8 	%	Total					 	Loss ratio	64.5 	%		62.3 	%		62.4 	%	Expense ratio	30.4 			31.5 			32.9 		Combined ratio	94.9 	%		93.8 	%		95.3 	% 

Investments
Investment results, before income taxes, were as follows:
 	Year Ended December 31,	(In thousands) 	2020		2019		2018	Average investments, at cost (1)	$	20,012,182 			$	19,145,567 			$	18,392,297 		Net investment income (1)	$	583,821 			$	645,614 			$	674,235 		Percent earned on average investments (1)	2.9 	%		3.4 	%		3.7 	%	Net investment gains (2)	$	103,000 			$	120,703 			$	154,488 		Change in unrealized investment gains (losses) (3)	$	164,645 			$	261,970 			$	(302,737)	 
_______________________________________
(1)Includes investments, cash and cash equivalents, trading accounts receivable from brokers and clearing organizations, trading account securities sold but not yet purchased and unsettled purchases.
(2)The inclusion of the allowance for expected credit losses on investments commenced January 1, 2020 due to the adoption of ASU 2016-13. See Note 10 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for components of net investment gains.
(3)Represents the change in unrealized investment gains (losses) for available for sale securities recognized in stockholders' equity.
For comparison, the following are the coupon returns for the Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index and the dividend returns for the S&P 500® Index:
 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index	2.8 	%		3.2 	%		3.0 	%	
S&P 500® Index
1.8 			2.3 			2.0 	 
    
The percentages of the fixed maturity portfolio categorized by contractual maturity, based on fair value, on the dates indicated, are set forth below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities because certain issuers may have the right to call or prepay certain obligations.
9


 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	1 year or less	11.4 	%		6.5 	%		6.9 	%	Over 1 year through 5 years	38.9 			35.9 			34.3 		Over 5 years through 10 years	25.0 			24.7 			22.3 		Over 10 years	17.4 			21.4 			24.7 		Mortgage-backed securities	7.3 			11.5 			11.8 		Total	100.0 	%		100.0 	%		100.0 	% 

At December 31, 2020, the fixed maturity portfolio had an effective duration of 2.4 years, including cash and cash equivalents, and 2.8 years for both 2019 and 2018.
Loss and Loss Expense Reserves
To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, either known or unknown, insurers establish reserves, which is a balance sheet account representing estimates of future amounts needed to pay claims and related expenses with respect to insured events which have occurred. Estimates and assumptions relating to reserves for losses and loss expenses are based on complex and subjective judgments, often including the interplay of specific uncertainties with related accounting and actuarial measurements. Such estimates are also susceptible to change as significant periods of time may elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the report of the loss to the insurer, the ultimate determination of the cost of the loss and the insurer’s payment of that loss.
In general, when a claim is reported, claims personnel establish a “case reserve” for the estimated amount of the ultimate payment based upon known information about the claim at that time. The estimate represents an informed judgment based on general reserving practices and reflects the experience and knowledge of the claims personnel regarding the nature and value of the specific type of claim. Reserves are also established on an aggregate basis to provide for losses incurred but not reported (“IBNR”) to the insurer, potential inadequacy of case reserves and the estimated expenses of settling claims, including legal and other fees and general expenses of administrating the claims adjustment process. Reserves are established based upon the then current legal interpretation of coverage provided.
In examining reserve adequacy, several factors are considered in estimating the ultimate economic value of losses. These factors include, among others, historical data, legal developments, changes in social attitudes and economic conditions, including the effects of inflation. The actuarial process relies on the basic assumption that past experience, adjusted judgmentally for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future outcomes. Reserve amounts are necessarily based on management’s informed estimates and judgments using currently available data. As additional experience and other data become available and are reviewed, these estimates and judgments may be revised. This may result in reserve increases or decreases that would be reflected in our results in periods in which such estimates and assumptions are changed.
The risk and complexity of estimating loss reserves are greater when economic conditions are uncertain. It is especially difficult to estimate the impact of inflation on loss reserves given the current economic environment and related government actions. Whereas a slowing economy would generally lead to lower inflation or even deflation, increased government spending would generally lead to higher inflation. A change in our assumptions regarding inflation would result in reserve increases or decreases that would be reflected in our earnings in periods in which such assumptions are changed.
Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves represent an estimate of what management expects the ultimate settlement and claim administration will cost. While the methods for establishing the reserves are well tested over time, some of the major assumptions about anticipated loss emergence patterns are subject to unanticipated fluctuation. These estimates, which generally involve actuarial projections, are based on management’s assessment of facts and circumstances then known, as well as estimates of trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors, including the actions of third parties, which are beyond the Company’s control. These variables are affected by external and internal events, such as inflation and economic volatility, judicial and litigation trends, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and claim handling and reserving practices, which make it more difficult to accurately predict claim costs. The inherent uncertainties of estimating reserves are greater for certain types of liabilities where long periods of time elapse before a definitive determination of liability is made. Although the loss reserves included in the Company’s financial statements represent management’s best estimates, setting reserves is inherently uncertain and the Company cannot provide assurance that its current reserves will prove adequate in light of subsequent events.
10


The Company discounts its liabilities for certain workers’ compensation reserves. The amount of workers’ compensation reserves that were discounted was $1,655 million and $1,731 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The aggregate net discount for those reserves, after reflecting the effects of ceded reinsurance, was $483 million and $530 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. At December 31, 2020, discount rates by year ranged from 0.7% to 6.5%, with a weighted average discount rate of 3.6%.
Substantially all discounted workers’ compensation reserves (97% of total discounted reserves at December 31, 2020) are excess workers’ compensation reserves. In order to properly match loss expenses with income earned on investment securities supporting the liabilities, reserves for excess workers’ compensation business are discounted using risk-free discount rates determined by reference to the U.S. Treasury yield curve. These rates are determined annually based on the weighted average rate for the period. Once established, no adjustments are made to the discount rate for that period, and any increases or decreases in loss reserves in subsequent years are discounted at the same rate, without regard to when any such adjustments are recognized. The expected loss and loss expense payout patterns subject to discounting are derived from the Company’s loss payout experience.  
The Company also discounts reserves for certain other long-duration workers’ compensation reserves (representing approximately 3% of total discounted reserves at December 31, 2020), including reserves for quota share reinsurance and reserves related to losses regarding occupational lung disease. These reserves are discounted at statutory rates permitted by the Department of Insurance of the State of Delaware.
To date, known environmental and asbestos claims have not had a material impact on the Company’s operations, because its subsidiaries generally did not insure large industrial companies that are subject to significant environmental or asbestos exposures prior to 1986 when an absolute exclusion was incorporated into standard policy language.
The Company’s net reserves for losses and loss expenses relating to environmental and asbestos claims on policies written before adoption of the absolute exclusion was $19 million at December 31, 2020 and $24 million at December 31, 2019. The estimation of these liabilities is subject to significantly greater than normal variation and uncertainty because it is difficult to make an actuarial estimate of these liabilities due to the absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for these exposures and the potential effect of significant unresolved legal matters, including coverage issues, as well as the cost of litigating the legal issues. Additionally, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of such damages to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain.
The table below provides a reconciliation of the beginning of year and end of year property casualty reserves for the indicated years:
(In thousands)	2020		2019		2018	Net reserves at beginning of year	$	10,697,998 			$	10,248,883 			$	10,056,914 		Cumulative effect adjustment resulting from changes in accounting principles (1)	5,927 			— 			— 		Restated net reserves at beginning of period	10,703,925 			10,248,883 			10,056,914 		Net provision for losses and loss expenses:			 		 	Claims occurring during the current year (2)	4,432,937 			4,057,989 			3,926,489 		Increase in estimates for claims occurring in prior years (3)	627 			34,079 			6,831 		Loss reserve discount amortization	35,142 			39,048 			41,382 		Total	4,468,706 			4,131,116 			3,974,702 		  Net payments for claims:			 		 	Current year	921,054 			985,599 			964,808 		Prior years	2,677,595 			2,673,803 			2,700,077 		Total	3,598,649 			3,659,402 			3,664,885 		Foreign currency translation	46,411 			(22,599)			(117,848)		Net reserves at end of year	11,620,393 			10,697,998 			10,248,883 		Ceded reserves at end of year	2,164,037 			1,885,251 			1,717,565 		Gross reserves at end of year	$	13,784,430 			$	12,583,249 			$	11,966,448 								Net change in premiums and losses occurring in prior years:						Increase in estimates for claims occurring in prior years (3)	$	(627)			$	(34,079)			$	(6,831)		Retrospective premium adjustments for claims occurring in prior years (4)	16,807 			53,511 			45,638 		
Net favorable premium and reserve development on prior years
$	16,180 			$	19,432 			$	38,807 	 

11


____________________________________
(1)The cumulative effect adjustment resulting from changes in accounting principals relates to the allowance for expected credit losses on reinsurance recoverables that commenced on January 1, 2020 due to the adoption of ASU 2016-13. See Note 1 for more details.
(2)Claims occurring during the current year are net of loss reserve discounts of $10 million, $20 million and $24 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(3)The change in estimates for claims occurring in prior years is net of loss reserve discount. On an undiscounted basis, the estimates for claims occurring in prior years decreased by $21 million in 2020, and increased by $19 million in 2019 and decreased by $4 million in 2018, respectively.
(4)For certain retrospectively rated insurance policies and reinsurance agreements, changes in loss and loss expenses for prior years are offset by additional or return premiums.
    
Also, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and note 13, Reserves for Losses and Loss Expenses included in our audited consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the changes in estimates for claims occurring in prior years.
A reconciliation between the reserves as of December 31, 2020 as reported in the accompanying consolidated GAAP financial statements and those reported on the basis of statutory accounting principles (“SAP”) in the Company’s U.S. regulatory filings is as follows:
(In thousands)		Net reserves reported in U.S. regulatory filings on a SAP basis	$	11,222,730 		Reserves for non-U.S. companies	495,565 		Loss reserve discounting (1)	(104,896)		Ceded reserves	2,164,037 		Allowance for expected credit losses on due from reinsurers	6,994 		Gross reserves reported in the consolidated GAAP financial statements	$	13,784,430 	 
_________________________
(1)For statutory purposes, the Company discounts its workers’ compensation reinsurance reserves at 2.5% as prescribed or permitted by the Department of Insurance of the State of Delaware. In its GAAP financial statements, the Company discounts excess workers’ compensation reserves at the risk-free rate and assumed workers’ compensation reserves at the statutory rate.
Reinsurance
We follow a common industry practice of reinsuring a portion of our exposures and paying to reinsurers a portion of the premiums received on the policies that we write. Reinsurance is purchased principally to reduce net liability on individual risks and to protect against catastrophic losses. Although reinsurance does not legally discharge an insurer from its primary liability for the full amount of the policies, it does make the assuming reinsurer contractually liable to the insurer to the extent of the reinsurance coverage. We monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers and attempt to place our coverages only with substantial, financially sound carriers. As a result, generally the reinsurers who reinsure our casualty insurance must have an A.M. Best rating of “A (Excellent)” or better with at least $1 billion in policyholder surplus and the reinsurers who cover our property insurance must have an A.M. Best rating of “A- (Excellent)” or better with at least $1 billion in policyholder surplus.

Regulation
U.S. Regulation 
Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business.
Overview. Our domestic insurance subsidiaries are subject to statutes which delegate regulatory, supervisory and administrative powers to state insurance commissioners. This regulation relates to such matters as the standards of solvency which must be met and maintained; the licensing of insurers and their agents; the nature of and limitations on investments; deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders; approval of certain policy forms and premium rates; periodic examination of the affairs of insurance companies; annual and other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of insurers or for other purposes; establishment and maintenance of reserves for unearned premiums, loss expenses and losses; and requirements regarding numerous other matters. Our property casualty subsidiaries, other than excess and surplus and reinsurance
12


subsidiaries, must generally file all rates with the insurance department of each state in which they operate. Our excess and surplus and reinsurance subsidiaries generally operate free of rate and form regulation. 
Legislative and Regulatory Activity Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic. Since March 2020, U.S. state insurance regulators have issued directives and guidance in response to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which have encouraged or directed insurance companies to implement accommodations such as extending grace periods for premium payments and forbearing on the cancellation or non-renewal of policies due to non-payment of premium. In addition, there has been industry and regulatory discussion regarding the appropriate role of pandemic business interruption coverage, which could potentially mandate retroactive coverage of pandemic-related business interruption losses that insurance policies would not otherwise cover and were not priced to cover such losses. In December 2020, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”) expressed its view that a federal mechanism is necessary to address the business interruption coverage gap for pandemic risk. Proposals for a prospective federal backstop for pandemic business interruption coverages are currently under development and consideration. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may adversely affect our business.
See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Industry — The COVID-19 pandemic has materially and adversely affected our results of operations, and is expected to continue and therefore may materially and adversely affect, our results of operations, financial position and liquidity.”
Holding Company Statutes. In addition to regulatory supervision of our insurance subsidiaries, we are subject to state statutes governing insurance holding company systems. Under the terms of applicable state statutes, any person or entity desiring to purchase more than a specified percentage (commonly 10%) of our outstanding voting securities would be required to obtain prior regulatory approval of the purchase. Typically, such statutes require that we periodically file information with the appropriate state insurance commissioner, including information concerning our capital structure, ownership, financial condition and general business operations.
In addition, we must annually submit to our lead state regulator an “enterprise risk management report” which identifies the activities and circumstances of any affiliated company that might have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of our group or our U.S. licensed insurers.
Nearly all states have also adopted changes to the holding company act that authorize U.S. insurance regulators to lead or participate in the group-wide supervision of certain international insurance groups. In November 2019, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (“IAIS”), an international standard setter, adopted a global framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups, as discussed below under “- International Regulation.” This framework includes a risk-based, group-wide global insurance capital standard (“ICS”), which will undergo a five-year monitoring period that started in January 2020. In the U.S., the NAIC has developed a group capital calculation tool that uses a risk-based capital aggregation methodology for all entities in an insurance holding company system. The goal is to provide U.S. regulators with a method to aggregate the available capital and the minimum capital of each entity in a group in a way that applies to all companies regardless of their structure. The NAIC adopted the group capital calculation methodology and amendments to the NAIC’s model holding company act and regulation. These amendments, which implement the annual filing requirement for the group capital calculation, now have to be adopted by state legislatures in order to become effective.
Nearly all states have adopted the NAIC's Risk Management and Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Model Act (the “ORSA Model Act”), which requires an insurance holding company system’s chief risk officer to submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Summary Report (“ORSA”). The ORSA is a confidential internal assessment of the material and relevant risks associated with an insurer’s current business plan and the sufficiency of capital resources to support those risks. Under ORSA, we are required to:
•regularly, no less than annually, conduct an ORSA to assess the adequacy of our risk management framework, and current and estimated projected future solvency position;
•internally document the process and results of the assessment; and
•provide a confidential high-level ORSA Summary Report annually to the Commissioner of Insurance of the State of Delaware (our lead state commissioner).
Cybersecurity Regulations. New York’s cybersecurity regulation for financial services institutions that are authorized by the New York State Department of Financial Services ("Part 500"), including our insurance subsidiaries licensed in New York, became effective on March 1, 2017. The regulation requires these entities to assess risks associated with their information systems and establish and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect consumers’ private data and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the licensee’s information systems. On October 24, 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law (the “Cybersecurity Model Law”), which establishes standards for data security, the investigation of cybersecurity events involving unauthorized access to, or the misuse of, certain nonpublic information, and reporting to insurance commissioners. The Cybersecurity Model Law imposes significant regulatory burdens intended to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information systems. Its implementation will be based on adoption by state
13


legislatures. As of December 31, 2020, the Cybersecurity Model Law had been adopted by 11 states, including one of our domiciliary states. Importantly, a drafting note in the Cybersecurity Model Law states that a licensee’s compliance with the New York cybersecurity regulation is intended to constitute compliance with the Cybersecurity Model Law.
Certain states are developing or have developed regulations related to privacy and data security. For example, in 2018 California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which broadly regulates the collection, processing and disclosure of California residents’ personal information, imposes limits on the “sale” of personal information and grants California residents certain rights to, among other things, access and delete data about them in certain circumstances. CCPA also established a private right of action, with potentially significant statutory damages, whereby businesses that fail to implement reasonable security measures to protect against breaches of personal information could be liable to affected consumers. CCPA became effective on January 1, 2020, and compliance with the CCPA may increase the cost of providing our services in California. Other states have considered - and may adopt - similar proposals. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that any proposed or future cybersecurity regulations will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Risk-Based Capital Requirements. The NAIC utilizes a Risk-Based Capital (“RBC”) formula that is designed to measure the adequacy of an insurer's statutory surplus in relation to the risks inherent in its business. The RBC formula develops a risk adjusted target level of adjusted statutory capital by applying certain factors to various asset, premium and reserve items. The NAIC RBC Model Law provides for four incremental levels of regulatory attention for insurers whose surplus is below the calculated RBC target. These levels of attention range in severity from requiring the insurer to submit a plan for corrective action to actually placing the insurer under regulatory control. The RBC of each of our domestic insurance subsidiaries was above any RBC action level as of December 31, 2020. 
Insurance Regulatory Information System. The NAIC also has developed a set of 13 financial ratios for property and casualty insurers referred to as the Insurance Regulatory Information System (“IRIS”). On the basis of statutory financial statements filed with state insurance regulators, the NAIC annually calculates these IRIS ratios to assist state insurance regulators in monitoring the financial condition of insurance companies. The NAIC has established an acceptable range for each of the IRIS financial ratios. 
Guaranty Funds. Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are also subject to assessment by state guaranty funds when an insurer in a particular jurisdiction has been judicially declared insolvent and the insolvent company's available funds are insufficient to pay policyholders and claimants the amounts to which they are entitled. The protection afforded under a state's guaranty fund to policyholders of the insolvent insurer varies from state to state. Generally, all licensed property casualty insurers are considered to be members of the fund, and assessments are based upon their pro rata share of direct written premiums in that state. The NAIC Post-Assessment Property and Liability Insurance Guaranty Association Model Act, which many states have adopted, limits assessments to an insurer to 2% of its subject premium and permits recoupment of assessments through rate setting. Likewise, several states (or underwriting organizations of which our insurance subsidiaries are required to be members) have limited assessment authority with regard to deficits in certain lines of business.
Additionally, state insurance laws and regulations require us to participate in mandatory property-liability “shared market,” “pooling” or similar arrangements that provide certain types of insurance coverage to individuals or others who otherwise are unable to purchase coverage voluntarily provided by private insurers. Shared market mechanisms include assigned risk plans and fair access to insurance requirement or “FAIR” plans. In addition, some states require insurers to participate in reinsurance pools for claims that exceed specified amounts. Our participation in these mandatory shared market or pooling mechanisms generally is related to the amount of our direct writings for the type of coverage written by the specific arrangement in the applicable state. 
Dividends. We receive funds from our insurance company subsidiaries in the form of dividends and management fees for certain management services. Annual dividends in excess of maximum amounts prescribed by state statutes may not be paid without the approval of the insurance commissioner of the state in which an insurance subsidiary is domiciled. See “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 
Trade Practices. State insurance laws and regulations include numerous provisions governing trade practices and the marketplace activities of insurers, including provisions governing marketing and sales practices, policyholder services, claims management and complaint handling. State regulatory authorities generally enforce these provisions through periodic market conduct examinations.
Investment Regulation. Investments by our domestic insurance companies must comply with applicable laws and regulations which prescribe the kind, quality and concentration of investments. In general, these laws and regulations permit investments in federal, state and municipal obligations, corporate bonds, preferred and common equity securities, mortgage loans, real estate and certain other investments, subject to specified limits and certain other qualifications. Investments that do
14


not comply with these limits and qualifications are deducted in our insurance subsidiaries' calculation of their statutory capital and surplus.
Terrorism Risk Insurance. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 established a Federal program that provides for a system of shared public and private compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. Pursuant to the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2019 (“TRIPRA”), the program was extended until December 31, 2027.
TRIPRA provides a federal backstop to all U.S. based property and casualty insurers for insurance related losses resulting from any act of terrorism on U.S. soil or against certain U.S. air carriers, vessels or foreign missions. TRIPRA is applicable to almost all commercial lines of property and casualty insurance but excludes commercial auto, burglary and theft, surety, professional liability and farm owners' multi-peril insurance. Insurers with direct commercial property and casualty insurance exposure in the United States are required to participate in the program and make available coverage for certified acts of terrorism. TRIPRA's definition of certified acts includes domestic terrorism. Federal participation will be triggered under TRIPRA when the Secretary of Treasury certifies an act of terrorism.
Under the program, the federal government will pay 80% of an insurer's covered losses in excess of the insurer's applicable deductible. The insurer's deductible is based on 20% of earned premium for the prior year for covered lines of commercial property and casualty insurance. Based on our 2020 earned premiums, our aggregate deductible under TRIPRA during 2021 will be approximately $1,014 million. The federal program will not pay losses for certified acts unless such losses exceed $200 million industry-wide for any calendar year after 2020. TRIPRA limits the federal government's share of losses at $100 billion for a program year. In addition, an insurer that has satisfied its deductible is not liable for the payment of losses in excess of the $100 billion cap.
Excess and Surplus Lines. The regulation of our U.S. subsidiaries' excess and surplus lines insurance business differs significantly from the regulation of our admitted business. Our surplus lines subsidiaries are subject to the surplus lines regulation and reporting requirements of the jurisdictions in which they are eligible to write surplus lines insurance. Although the surplus lines business is generally less regulated than admitted business, principally with respect to rates and policy forms, strict regulations apply to surplus lines placements in the laws of every state and the regulation of surplus lines insurance may undergo changes in the future. Federal or state measures may be introduced to increase the oversight of surplus lines insurance in the future.
Climate Change and Financial Risks. In September 2020, the New York State Department of Financial Services (the “NYDFS”) issued a circular letter to New York domestic and foreign insurance companies, which impacts our insurance subsidiaries licensed in New York. The circular letter states that the NYDFS expects insurers to integrate financial risks related to climate change into their governance frameworks, risk management processes and business strategies. For example, the letter states that an insurer should designate a board member or board committee, as well as a senior management function, that oversees the management of the financial risks associated with climate change. The NYDFS will publish guidance on climate-related financial supervision, and it will incorporate questions on this topic into their examinations starting in 2021.
Federal Regulation. Although the federal government and its regulatory agencies generally do not directly regulate the business of insurance, federal initiatives could have an impact on our business in a variety of ways. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) effected sweeping changes to financial services regulation in the United States. The Dodd-Frank Act created two new federal government bodies, the Federal Insurance Office (the “FIO”) and the Financial Stability Oversight Council (the “FSOC”), which may impact the regulation of insurance. Although the FIO has preemption authority over state insurance laws that conflict with certain international agreements, it does not have general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance. The FIO has authority to represent the United States in international insurance matters and is authorized to monitor the U.S. insurance industry and identify potential regulatory gaps that could contribute to systemic risk. In May 2018, the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief and Consumer Protection Act (“Economic Growth Act”) was signed into law. Among other things, the Economic Growth Act addresses the roles played by federal regulators at international insurance standard-setting forums. It directs the Director of the FIO and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve to support increased transparency at international standard-setting regulatory forums (e.g., the IAIS). These federal regulations also instruct the FIO and the Federal Reserve to achieve consensus positions with the states through the NAIC prior to taking a position on any insurance proposal by a global insurance regulatory forum.
The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury and U.S. Trade Representative to enter into international agreements of mutual recognition regarding the prudential regulation of insurance or reinsurance, and in September 2017, the U.S. and the European Union ("EU") signed such a covered agreement (the "EU Covered Agreement").
The EU Covered Agreement addresses three areas of prudential supervision: reinsurance, group supervision and the exchange of information between the U.S. and EU. Under the EU Covered Agreement, reinsurance collateral requirements will no longer apply to qualifying EU reinsurers that sell reinsurance to the U.S. market, and U.S. reinsurers operating in the EU
15


market will no longer be subject to “local presence” requirements. The EU Covered Agreement establishes group supervision practices that apply only to U.S. and EU insurance groups operating in both territories. For instance, the EU Covered Agreement states that, provided the U.S. has adopted group supervision including worldwide group governance, solvency, capital and reporting, U.S.-headquartered insurance groups with operations in the EU will be supervised at the worldwide level only by U.S. insurance regulators precluding EU insurance supervisors from exercising solvency and capital requirements over the worldwide operations of U.S.-headquartered insurers. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FIO has preemption authority over state insurance laws that conflict with the EU Covered Agreement.
In late December 2018, the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative entered into a covered agreement with the U.K. (the “U.K. Covered Agreement”), which will extend the benefits of a covered agreement to the U.K. after Brexit. The agreement between the U.S. and the U.K. largely reflects the provisions of the EU Covered Agreement and incorporates the same timeframes within it.
Under the terms of such EU and U.K. Covered Agreements, beginning September 1, 2022, state credit for reinsurance laws that result in non-U.S. reinsurers subject to the Covered Agreements being treated less favorably than U.S. reinsurers may be preempted by the applicable Covered Agreement. Accordingly, in June 2019, the NAIC adopted amendments to its Credit for Reinsurance Model Law in order to satisfy the substantive and timing requirements of the Covered Agreements and to pave the way for U.S. states to similarly amend their credit for reinsurance laws and avoid potential federal pre-emption of these laws. These amendments will become an NAIC accreditation standard beginning September 1, 2022, with enforcement beginning on January 1, 2023. The newly amended Credit for Reinsurance Model Law also extends the zero reinsurance collateral provisions in the Covered Agreements to U.S. jurisdictions that are accredited by the NAIC and to non-U.S. jurisdictions that have not entered into a covered agreement with the U.S. but the NAIC has identified as “reciprocal jurisdictions” pursuant to the NAIC Qualified Jurisdiction Process. We cannot currently predict the impact of these changes to the law or whether any other covered agreements will be successfully adopted, and cannot currently estimate the impact of these changes to the law and any such adopted covered agreements on our business, financial condition or operating results.
The FIO also can recommend to the FSOC that it designate an insurer as an entity posing risks to the United States’ financial stability in the event of the insurer’s material financial distress or failure, i.e., a “systemically important financial institution” or a “non-bank SIFI.” An insurer so designated by the FSOC will be subject to Federal Reserve supervision and heightened prudential standards. There are currently no such non-bank SIFIs designated by the FSOC. On December 4, 2019, the FSOC approved final guidance related to a revised process for designating non-bank SIFIs, which substantially changed its previous procedures by adopting an activities-based approach and moving away from the entities-based approach. The final guidance became effective on January 29, 2020.
Based upon our current business model and balance sheet, we do not believe that we will be designated by the FSOC as such an institution. Although the potential impact of any future amendments to the Dodd-Frank Act on the U.S. insurance industry is not clear, our business could be affected by changes to the U.S. system of insurance regulation or our designation or the designation of insurers or reinsurers with which we do business as systemically important non-bank financial companies.
International Regulation
Our insurance subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom are regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and/or the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”). The PRA’s primary objectives with regard to insurers are to promote the safety and soundness of insurers and to contribute to the securing of an appropriate degree of protection for current and future policyholders, while the FCA has three operational objectives: (i) to secure an appropriate degree of protection for consumers, (ii) to protect and enhance the integrity of the United Kingdom’s financial system, and (iii) to promote effective competition in the interests of consumers in the financial services markets. The PRA and FCA employ a variety of regulatory tools to achieve their objectives, including periodic auditing and reporting requirements, risk assessment reviews, minimum solvency margins and individual capital assessment requirements, dividend restrictions, in certain cases, approval requirements governing the appointment of key officers, approval requirements governing controlling ownership interests and various other requirements.
Our Lloyd’s managing agency is also regulated by Lloyd’s, and the Lloyd’s syndicate business is subject to Lloyd’s supervision. Through Lloyd’s, we are licensed to write business in various countries throughout the world by virtue of Lloyd’s international licenses. In each such country, we are subject to the laws and insurance regulation of that country. Our insurance subsidiary based in Liechtenstein is regulated by the Financial Market Authority of Liechtenstein, which has regulatory tools analogous to those of the U.K. regulators noted above.
Additionally, U.K. and Liechtenstein laws and regulations also impact us as “controllers” of our European-regulated subsidiaries, whereby we are required to notify the appropriate authorities about significant events relating to such regulated subsidiaries’ controllers (i.e. persons or entities which have certain levels of direct or indirect voting power or economic interests in the regulated entities) as well as changes of control, and to submit annual reports regarding their controllers. The
16


PRA/FCA’s Senior Managers and Certification Regime and analogous regulation in Liechtenstein further provide regulatory frameworks for standards of fitness and propriety, conduct and accountability for individuals in positions of responsibility at insurers. In addition, certain employees are individually registered at Lloyd’s.
Following the expiry of the transition period for the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the EU on December 31, 2020, an insurance company with authorization to write insurance business in the U.K. is no longer permitted to provide cross-border services on a “passporting” basis in the remaining member states of the European Economic Area (“EEA”), a group including member states of the EU and Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. Instead, U.K. insurance companies are now required to establish either a subsidiary or a branch in an EEA member state and apply for direct authorization with the local regulator in that jurisdiction.
EEA insurers have similarly lost their right to provide cross-border services on a “passporting” basis into the U.K. As a result, the U.K. branch of our Liechtenstein subsidiary has applied for direct authorization to carry on insurance business in the U.K. In the meantime, the branch is currently able to perform regulated insurance business in the U.K. under the supervision of the PRA/FCA pursuant to the U.K. ‘Temporary Permissions Regime’ while the application is being considered.
See below “Risks Relating To Our Business-The United Kingdom leaving the EU could adversely affect our business” for more information.
Our insurance business throughout the EU and EEA is subject to “Solvency II”, an insurance regulatory regime governing, among other things, capital adequacy and risk management which became effective on January 1, 2016. Following the U.K.’s withdrawal from the EU, and the expiry of the transition period on December 31, 2020, our Lloyd’s managing agency (and the U.K. branch of our Liechtenstein subsidiary) are now subject to a separate U.K. prudential regime. This domestic regime is identical to Solvency II from January 1, 2021. However, the two regimes may diverge over time. The U.K. is currently undertaking a review of Solvency II and of the regulatory regime applicable to U.K. authorized insurers and reinsurers. Lloyd’s applies a capital adequacy test to all Lloyd’s syndicates, including our syndicate, that is based on the U.K. prudential regime.
Solvency II provides for the supervision of group solvency. Under Solvency II, it is possible that the U.S. parent of a European Union subsidiary could be subject to certain Solvency II requirements if the U.S. company is not already subject to regulations deemed “equivalent” to Solvency II. Currently, the U.S. system of insurance regulation relating to group supervision is not deemed “equivalent” to Solvency II by European Union authorities. The PRA will also perform separate, but comparable, supervision of group solvency under the U.K.’s own domestic prudential regime where a U.S. holding company is a parent of a subsidiary U.K. insurer or reinsurer.
The Liechtenstein financial services regulator, the Financial Markets Authority, is the group supervisor for our European-regulated subsidiaries. However, both the EU and the U.K. Covered Agreements prohibit any EU supervisor or the PRA (as applicable) from exercising group-wide supervision at any level above the highest company organized in the country of that supervisor.
We must also comply with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which took effect in May 2018. The regulation’s goal is to impose increased individual rights and protections for all personal data located in or originating from the EU. The U.K. has also implemented the GDPR. Both the GDPR and the U.K. GDPR are extraterritorial in that they apply to all businesses in the EU and the U.K. respectively and any business outside the EU and the U.K. that process EU and/or U.K. personal data of individuals in the EU and/or the U.K.. Moreover, there are significant fines associated with non-compliance. In particular, we need to monitor our compliance with all relevant member states’ laws and regulations, including where permitted derogations from the GDPR and the U.K. GDPR are introduced. The introduction of the GDPR and the U.K. GDPR, and any resultant changes in EU member states’ or U.K. national laws and regulations, has increased our compliance obligations and has necessitated the review and implementation of policies and processes relating to our collection and use of data, and has required us to change our business practices regarding these matters.
In addition, we may be affected by regulatory policies adopted by the IAIS, an international standard setter consisting of supervisors and regulators from more than 200 jurisdictions. The IAIS has been working on several initiatives to consider changes to insurer solvency standards and group supervision of companies in a holding company system in response to the increasing globalization of the insurance sector. In November 2019, the IAIS formally adopted a global framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance groups (“IAIGs”), which is referred to as the Common Framework for the Supervision of Internationally Active Insurance Groups, or “ComFrame.” ComFrame is intended to provide a framework of basic standards for IAIGs and a process for supervisors to cooperate in the supervision of IAIGs. Also in November 2019, the IAIS adopted a risk-based group-wide global insurance capital standard (“ICS”) that will apply to IAIGs and ultimately form a part of ComFrame. The ICS commenced a five-year monitoring period in January 2020 which is being used for confidential reporting and discussion in supervisory colleges to provide feedback to the IAIS on the ICS’s design and performance, but will not trigger any supervisory action. Following this monitoring period, the ICS is expected to be implemented in 2025 as a group-
17


wide prescribed capital requirement for IAIGs and integrated into the rest of ComFrame. As noted above under “- U.S. Regulation,” it is unclear how the development of the ICS will interact with existing capital requirements for insurance companies in the United States and the NAIC’s development of the GCC.
Our international operations are also subject to varying degrees of regulation in Mexico, Australia and Canada and in certain other countries in Europe, South America, and Southeast Asia. Generally, our subsidiaries must satisfy local regulatory requirements. While each country imposes licensing, solvency, auditing and financial reporting requirements, the type and extent of the requirements differ substantially. Key areas where country regulations may differ include: (i) the type of financial reports to be filed; (ii) a requirement to use local intermediaries; (iii) the amount of reinsurance permissible; (iv) the scope of any regulation of policy forms and rates; and (v) the type and frequency of regulatory examinations.
Competition 
The property casualty insurance and reinsurance businesses are highly competitive, with many insurance companies of various sizes, as well as other entities offering risk alternatives such as self-insured retentions or captive programs, transacting business in the United States and internationally. We compete directly with a large number of these companies. Competition in our industry is largely measured by the ability to provide insurance and services at a price and on terms that are reasonable and acceptable to the customer. Our strategy in this highly fragmented industry is to seek specialized areas or geographic regions where our operating units can gain a competitive advantage by responding quickly to changing market conditions. Our operating units establish their own pricing practices based upon a Company-wide philosophy to price products with the intent of making an underwriting profit.
Competition for insurance business within the United States comes from other specialty insurers, regional carriers, large national multi-line companies and reinsurers. Our specialty operating units compete with excess and surplus insurers as well as standard carriers. Other regional units compete with mutual and other regional stock companies as well as national carriers. Additionally, direct writers of property casualty insurance compete with our regional units by writing insurance through their salaried employees, generally at a lower acquisition cost than through independent agents such as those used by the Company. We compete internationally with native insurance operations both large and small, which in some cases are related to government entities, as well as with branches or local subsidiaries of multinational companies.
Competition for reinsurance business, which is especially strong, comes from domestic and foreign reinsurers, which produce their business either on a direct basis or through the broker market. These competitors include Swiss Re, Munich Re, Berkshire Hathaway, Transatlantic Reinsurance, Partner Re and others.
In recent years, various institutional investors have increasingly sought to participate in the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries. Well-capitalized new entrants to the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industries, or existing competitors that receive substantial infusions of capital, provide increasing competition, which may adversely impact our business and profitability. Further, an expanded supply of reinsurance capital may lower costs for insurers that rely on reinsurance and, as a consequence, those insurers may be able to price their products more competitively.
Human Capital Resources 
As of January 15, 2021, we employed 7,495 individuals. Of this number, our subsidiaries employed 7,356 persons and the remaining persons were employed at the parent company.
We believe that our people are our greatest asset and that our corporate culture is the most important intangible value driver of our superior long-term risk-adjusted returns and growth in stockholder value.
Human Capital Management: The Company fosters a performance culture. We are focused on creating a respectful, rewarding, diverse, and inclusive work environment that allows our employees to build meaningful and productive careers. The success of these human capital management objectives is essential to our strategy, as it is our people who drive our success. We invest in their growth as individuals and professionals through training and engagement, as well as in their well-being through robust health and wellness programs and a commitment to diversity.
The Company provides developmental opportunities for our employees through formal and informal programs that focus on enabling employees to build skills and thought leadership in specific facets of our business. Our leadership programs cultivate the talent of our high-potential, strong-performing employees as we strive to deepen, enhance and diversify the Company’s leadership team.
We strive to align employee incentives with the risk and performance frameworks of the Company. The Company’s “pay for performance” philosophy connects individual, operating unit and Company results to employee compensation, providing employees with opportunities to share in the Company’s overall growth and success. The Company offers employees a comprehensive benefits package, including health and wellness, financial, educational and life management benefits. In
18


addition, we support employees in making an impact in their local communities and globally through environmental and social efforts that are meaningful to them.
Our Board of Directors engages with our senior leadership team, including our senior vice president - human resources, on a periodic basis across a range of human capital management issues, including succession planning and development, compensation, benefits, talent recruiting and retention, engagement, diversity and inclusion, and employee feedback.
Culture: The Board of Directors has recognized Accountability, People Oriented Strategy, Responsible Financial Practices, Risk-Adjusted Returns and Transparency as the elements of corporate culture necessary for the Company to achieve success. Our culture is what unifies our employees across our decentralized business model, to serve our diverse clients globally and propels the Company’s continuous evolution.
We are committed to fostering a unifying culture and encouraging innovation across our enterprise. The key drivers of our culture encompass the premises that (i) specialized knowledge and having a customer-centric focus are competitive advantages and (ii) an environment that promotes integrity, embraces the commitment to “always do right,” fosters entrepreneurship and innovation, and values making thoughtful decisions for the long-term benefit of our enterprise. While there is no one “Berkley” way, each of our operating units has a unique culture that embodies a shared set of values that define our enterprise. Our structure, with more than 50 distinct operating units, facilitates the prompt identification of and appropriate action with respect to addressing individual business or cultural issues arising within an operating unit, without significantly affecting the larger enterprise. Furthermore, these operating units are overseen by senior corporate business managers and senior corporate functional managers, including actuarial, claims, underwriting, compliance and finance, providing a unique governance structure that makes it easier to identify such issues. Additionally, our Board of Directors through, among other activities, its regular interactions with corporate senior management, have visibility into and receive timely feedback on cultural issues that may affect our business.
As significant owners of our Company who are required to hold their shares until separation from service, each of our directors and senior executives have a vested interest in cultivating talent and perpetuating a culture that facilitates the execution of our long-term objectives.
Other Information about the Company's Business
We maintain an interest in the acquisition and startup of complementary businesses and continue to evaluate possible acquisitions and new ventures on an ongoing basis. In addition, our operating units develop new coverages or enter lines of business to meet the needs of insureds.
Seasonal weather variations and other events affect the severity and frequency of losses sustained by the insurance and reinsurance operating units. Although the effect on our business of catastrophes such as tornadoes, hurricanes, hailstorms, wildfires, earthquakes and terrorist acts may be mitigated by reinsurance, they nevertheless can have a significant impact on the results of any one or more reporting periods. 
We have no customer that accounts for 10 percent or more of our consolidated revenues.
Compliance by W. R. Berkley and its subsidiaries with federal, state and local provisions that have been enacted or adopted regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to protection of the environment, has not had a material effect upon our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.
The Company's internet address is www.berkley.com. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference in this annual report on Form 10-K. The Company's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act and other reports filed by us or with respect to our securities by others are accessible free of charge through this website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC.
