DENTSPLY SIRONA Inc. (“Dentsply Sirona” or the “Company”), is the world’s largest manufacturer of professional dental products and technologies, with a 134-year history of innovation and service to the dental industry and patients worldwide. Dentsply Sirona develops, manufactures, and markets a comprehensive solutions offering including technologically-advanced dental equipment as well as dental and healthcare consumable products under a strong portfolio of world class brands. As The Dental Solutions Company, Dentsply Sirona’s products provide innovative, high-quality and effective solutions to advance patient care and deliver better, safer and faster dentistry. The Company introduced the first dental electric drill over 130 years ago, the first dental X-ray unit approximately 100 years ago, the first dental computer-aided design/computer-aided manufacturing (“CAD/CAM”) system over 30 years ago, and numerous other significant innovations including pioneering ultrasonic scaling to increase the speed, effectiveness and comfort of cleaning and revolutionizing both file and apex locater technology to make root canal procedures easier and safer. Dentsply Sirona continues to make significant investments in research and development (“R&D”), and its track record of innovative and profitable new products continues today. Dentsply Sirona’s worldwide headquarters is located in Charlotte, North Carolina and its shares of common stock are listed in the United States on Nasdaq under the symbol XRAY.

Dental products and technology and equipment accounted for approximately 90% of Dentsply Sirona’s consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2020. The remaining net sales are primarily related to consumable medical device products.

The Company conducts its business in the United States of America (“U.S.”), as well as in over 120 foreign countries, principally through its foreign subsidiaries. Dentsply Sirona has a long-established presence in the European market, particularly in Germany, Sweden, France, the United Kingdom (“UK”), Switzerland and Italy, as well as in Canada. The Company also has a significant market presence in the countries of the Pacific Rim, Commonwealth of Independent States (“CIS”), Central and South America, and the Middle-East region.

3

Principal Products

The worldwide professional dental industry encompasses the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease and ailments of the teeth, gums and supporting bone. Dentsply Sirona’s principal product categories are dental consumable products and dental technology and equipment products. Additionally, the Company manufactures and sells healthcare consumable products for urological applications. These products are produced by the Company in the U.S. and internationally and are distributed throughout the world under some of the most well-established brand names and trademarks in these industries, including but not limited to: AH PLUS, ANKYLOS, AQUASIL ULTRA, ARTICADENT, ASTRA TECH, ATLANTIS, AXEOS, BYTE, CALIBRA, CAULK, CAVITRON, CELTRA, CERAMCO, CERCON, CEREC, CEREC MCX, CITANEST, CONFORM FIT, DELTON, DENTSPLY, DETREY, DYRACT, ESTHET.X, FRIOS, GALILEOS, INLAB, INTEGO, IPN, LOFRIC, LUCITONE, MAILLEFER, MIDWEST, MTM, NUPRO, OMNICAM, ORAQIX, ORIGO, ORTHOPHOS, OSSEOSPEED, PALODENT PLUS, PORTRAIT, PRIME & BOND, PROFILE, PRIMEMILL, PRIMESCAN, PROGLIDER, PROTAPER, RECIPROC, PUREVAC, RINN, SANI-TIP, SCHICK, SIMPLANT, SINIUS, SIROLASER, SIRONA, SLIMLINE, STYLUS, SULTAN, SUREFIL, SURESMILE, SYMBIOS, T1, T2, T3, T4, TENEO, THERMAFIL, TRIODENT, TRUBYTE, TRUNATOMY, VIPI, WAVEONE, WELLSPECT, XENO, XIVE, XYLOCAINE and ZHERMACK.

Technologies & Equipment Segment

Dental Technology and Equipment Products

Dental technology products consist of basic and high-tech dental equipment such as treatment centers, imaging equipment, dental handpieces, and computer aided design and machining CAD/CAM systems equipment for dental practitioners. The product category also includes high-tech state-of-art dental implants and related scanning equipment and treatment software, and orthodontic clear aligners and appliances for dental practitioners and specialists. The Company offers the broadest line of products to fully outfit a dental practitioner’s office.

Treatment centers comprise a broad range of products from basic dentist chairs to sophisticated chair-based units with integrated diagnostic, hygiene and ergonomic functionalities, as well as specialist centers used in preventive treatment and for training purposes. Imaging equipment consist of a broad range of diagnostic imaging systems for 2D or 3D, panoramic, and intra-oral applications. Dental CAD/CAM systems equipment are products designed for dental offices used for dental restorations, such as inlays, onlays, veneers, crowns, bridges, copings and bridge frameworks made from ceramic, metal or composite blocks. This product line also includes high-tech chairside economical restoration of esthetic ceramic dentistry, or CEREC equipment. This equipment allows for in-office application that enables dentists to produce high quality restorations from ceramic material and insert them into the patient’s mouth during a single appointment. CEREC has a number of advantages compared to the traditional out-of-mouth pre-shaped restoration method, as CEREC does not require a physical model, restorations can be created in the dentist’s office and the procedure can be completed in a single visit. The Company estimates that at December 31, 2020 the market penetration for in-office CAD/CAM systems in the U.S. and Germany was approximately 19% and 18%, respectively.

Net sales of dental technology and equipment products accounted for approximately 50%, 50% and 48% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

Healthcare Consumable Products

Healthcare consumable products consist mainly of urology catheters, medical drills and other non-medical products.

Net sales of healthcare consumable products accounted for approximately 10%, 8% and 9% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

Consumables Segment

Dental consumable products consist of value-added dental supplies and small equipment used in dental offices for the treatment of patients. It also includes specialized treatment products used within the dental office and laboratory settings including products used in the preparation of dental appliances by dental laboratories.

Dentsply Sirona’s dental supplies include endodontic (root canal) instruments and materials, dental anesthetics, prophylaxis paste, dental sealants, impression materials, restorative materials, tooth whiteners and topical fluoride.
4

Small equipment products include intraoral curing light systems, dental diagnostic systems and ultrasonic scalers and polishers.

The Company’s products used in dental laboratories include dental prosthetics, such as artificial teeth, precious metal dental alloys, dental ceramics and crown and bridge materials. Dental laboratory equipment products include laboratory-based CAD/CAM milling systems, amalgamators, mixing machines and porcelain furnaces.

Net sales of dental consumable products accounted for approximately 40%, 42% and 43% of the Company’s consolidated net sales for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.

Markets, Sales and Distribution

The Company believes that the market for its products will grow over the long-term based on the following factors:

•earlier preventive care - dentistry has evolved from a profession primarily dealing with pain, infections and tooth decay to one with increased emphasis on preventive care and the role oral health plays in overall health.

•a growing demand for aesthetic dentistry and the appeal of clear aligners as an orthodontic treatment.

•increasing demand in single visit dentistry versus historical multi-visit procedure requirements.

•rapid pace of digital technologies adoption becoming a category standard versus historical manual processes.

•increasing worldwide population.

•increasing demands for patient comfort and ease of product use and handling.

•aging population in developed countries with access to greater amounts of discretionary income will require more dental care.

•natural teeth are being retained longer - individuals with natural teeth are much more likely to visit a dentist in a given year than those without any natural teeth remaining.

•increasing demand for more efficiency and better workflow in the dental office, including digital and integrated solutions.

•per capita and discretionary incomes are increasing in emerging markets. As personal incomes continue to rise in emerging economies, healthcare, including dental services, is a growing priority. Many surveys indicate the middle class population will expand significantly within these emerging markets.

•the Company’s business is less susceptible than many other industries to general downturns in the economies in which it operates. Many of the products the Company offers relate to dental procedures and health conditions that are considered necessary by patients regardless of the economic environment. Dental specialty products, dental equipment and products that support discretionary dental procedures are the most susceptible to changes in economic conditions.

Dentsply Sirona employs approximately 5,100 highly trained, product-specific sales and technical staff to provide comprehensive marketing and service tailored to the particular sales and technical support requirements of its distributors, dealers and the end-users.

5

Dental Sales and Distribution

Dentsply Sirona distributes approximately two-thirds of its dental consumable and technology and equipment products through third-party distributors. Certain highly technical products such as dental technology equipment, dental ceramics, crown and bridge porcelain products, endodontic instruments and materials, orthodontic clear aligners and appliances, and dental implants are often sold directly to the dental laboratory or dental professionals in some markets. For the year ended December 31, 2020, two customers, Henry Schein, Inc (“Henry Schein”) and Patterson Companies, Inc. (“Patterson”), each accounted for more than 10%, or approximately 14% and 10%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. At December 31, 2020, only one customer, Patterson, accounted for more than 10%, or approximately 18% of the consolidated accounts receivable balance. For the year ended December 31, 2019, only one customer, Henry Schein, accounted for more than 10%, or approximately 13% of consolidated net sales. At December 31, 2019, two customers, Henry Schein and Patterson, accounted for approximately 12% and 17%, respectively, of the consolidated accounts receivable balance. For the year ended December 31, 2018, only one customer, Henry Schein, accounted for approximately 10% of consolidated net sales.

In 2018 and 2017 the Company was impacted by the transition in distribution strategy with Patterson and Henry Schein. The Company shipped initial stocking orders for the equipment products to Henry Schein primarily in the second and third quarters of 2017 which resulted in unfavorable year-over-year sales growth comparisons. Based on the Company’s estimate, year-over-year changes in distributor inventories negatively impacted the Company’s reported sales growth for the year ended December 31, 2018 by approximately $127 million. Based on the Company’s estimate, distributor inventories increased for the year ended December 31, 2017 by approximately $27 million as compared to a decrease of approximately $100 million for the full year 2018.

Although many of its dental sales are made to distributors, dealers and importers, Dentsply Sirona focuses much of its marketing efforts on the dentists, dental hygienists, dental assistants, dental laboratories and dental schools which are the end-users of its products. As part of this end-user “pull through” marketing approach, the Company conducts extensive distributor, dealer and end-user marketing programs. Additionally, the Company trains laboratory technicians, dental hygienists, dental assistants and dentists in the proper use of its products and introduces them to the latest technological developments at its educational courses conducted throughout the world. The Company also maintains ongoing consulting and educational relationships with various dental associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in the dental field.

The Company's focus includes the creation of more meaningful solutions for dentists built around the following five key operating principles:

•Approach customers as one: Put the customer at the center of how Dentsply Sirona is organized. The Company is creating one integrated approach to customer service, direct and indirect selling, and clinical education to strengthen the relationship with the customer and better serve the customers' needs.

•Assume greater responsibility for Dentsply Sirona’s demand creation: To better support dealer partners and end-user customers, the Company launched a sales force effectiveness program, with a view to improving returns on sales and marketing investments.

•Ensure that innovation is substantial and supported: Create a comprehensive R&D program that prioritizes spending across the entire Company portfolio resulting in more impactful innovations each year.

•Lead in clinical education: Dentsply Sirona is investing to further its leadership position through local training events and enhancing online training presence to strengthen the relationship with the dental professionals.

•Take advantage of scale: The Company is focused on integrating its dental product portfolios to unlock operational efficiencies, including performance improvements in procurement, logistics, manufacturing, sales force and marketing programs. In addition, Dentsply Sirona is taking significant measures to simplify the business. In combination, these initiatives will improve organizational efficiency and better leverage the Company’s selling, general and administrative infrastructure.

Medical Sales and Distribution

The Company’s urology products are sold directly in approximately 15 countries throughout Europe and North America, and through distributors in approximately 20 additional markets. The Company’s largest markets include the UK, Germany and France. Key customers include urologists, continence care nurses, general practitioners and direct-to-patients.

6

Historical reimbursement levels within Europe have been higher for intermittent catheters which explain a greater penetration of single-use catheter products in that market. In the United States, which the Company considers an important growth market, the reimbursement environment has improved as third-party payers have recognized the cost benefits of infection control through the use of disposable catheters.

The Company also maintains ongoing consulting and educational relationships with various medical associations and recognized worldwide opinion leaders in this field.

Product Development

Innovation and successful product development are critical to keeping market leadership position in key product categories and growing market share in other products categories while strengthening the Company’s prominence in the dental and medical markets that it serves. While many of Dentsply Sirona’s existing products undergo brand extensions, the Company also continues to focus efforts on successfully launching innovative products that have a more significant impact on how dental and clinical professionals treat their patients.

New advances in technology are also anticipated to have a significant influence on future products in dentistry and in select areas of healthcare. As a result, the Company pursues research and development initiatives to support this technological development, including collaborations with external research institutions, dental and medical schools. Through its own internal research centers as well as through its collaborations with external research institutions, dental and medical schools, the Company directly invests in the development of new products, improvement of existing products and advances in technology. The continued development of these areas is a critical step in meeting the Company’s strategic goal as a leader in defining the future of dentistry and in select areas in health care.

In addition to the direct investment in product development and improvement, the Company also invests in these activities through acquisitions, by entering into licensing agreements with third parties, and by purchasing technologies developed by third parties.

Acquisition Activities

Dentsply Sirona believes that the dental consumable and technology products industries continue to experience consolidation with respect to both product manufacturing and distribution, although they remain fragmented thereby creating a number of acquisition opportunities.

The Company views acquisitions as a key part of its growth strategy. These acquisition activities are intended to supplement the Company’s core growth and assure ongoing expansion of its business to capitalize on significant growth drivers, including new technologies, additional products, organizational strength and geographic breadth. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company made various investments, including Byte, a direct-to-consumer clear aligner business, which complements the Company's existing clear aligner product by adding a digital component and is expected to enhance scale and accelerate the growth and profitability of the Company's combined clear aligners business going forward. This acquisition is representative of the Company's strategy of matching technological advancement in digital dentistry with innovative marketing and delivery in order to reach areas of high-growth potential for customer demand. For more information regarding the Company's acquisition activity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.

Operating and Technical Expertise

Dentsply Sirona believes that its manufacturing capabilities are important to its success. The manufacturing processes of the Company’s products require substantial and varied technical expertise. Complex materials technology and processes are necessary to manufacture the Company’s products. Where it can improve quality and customer service and lower costs, the Company endeavors to automate its global manufacturing operations.

Financing

Information about Dentsply Sirona’s working capital, liquidity and capital resources is provided in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Form 10-K.

7

Competition

The Company conducts its operations, both domestic and foreign, under highly competitive market conditions. Competition in the dental and healthcare consumable products and dental technology and equipment products industries is based primarily upon product performance, quality, safety and ease of use, as well as price, customer service, innovation and acceptance by clinicians, technicians and patients. Dentsply Sirona believes that its principal strengths include its well-established brand names, its reputation for high quality and innovative products, its leadership in product development and manufacturing, its global sales force, the breadth of its product line and distribution network, its commitment to customer satisfaction and support of the Company’s products by dental and medical professionals.

The size and number of the Company’s competitors vary by product line and from region to region. There are many companies that produce some, but no competitor produces all of the same types of products as those produced by the Company.

Regulation

The development, manufacture, sale and distribution of the Company’s products are subject to comprehensive governmental regulation both within and outside the United States. The following sections describe certain, but not all, of the significant regulations that apply to the Company. For a description of the risks related to the regulations that the Company is subject to, please refer to Item 1A. “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K.

The majority of the Company’s products are classified as medical devices and are subject to restrictions under domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders, including, but not limited to, the United States Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the “FDCA”), Council Directive 93/42/EEC on Medical Devices (“MDD”) (1993) in the European Union, which will be updated to the European Union Medical Device Regulation (“MDR”) in 2021 (and implementing and local measures adopted thereunder) and similar international laws and regulations. The FDCA requires these products, when sold in the United States, to be safe and effective for their intended use and to comply with the regulations administered by the United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”). Certain medical device products are also regulated by comparable agencies in non-U.S. countries in which they are produced or sold.

Dental and medical devices of the types sold by Dentsply Sirona are generally classified by the FDA into a category that renders them subject to the same controls that apply to all medical devices, including regulations regarding alteration, misbranding, notification, record-keeping and good manufacturing practices. In the European Union, Dentsply Sirona’s products are subject to the medical device laws of the various member states, which are based on a Directive of the European Commission. Such laws generally regulate the safety of the products in a similar way to the FDA regulations. Dentsply Sirona products in Europe bear the CE mark showing that such products comply with European regulations.

8

All dental amalgam filling materials, including those manufactured and sold by Dentsply Sirona, contain mercury. Various groups have alleged that dental amalgam containing mercury is harmful to human health and have actively lobbied state, federal and foreign lawmakers and regulators to pass laws or adopt regulatory changes restricting the use, or requiring a warning against alleged potential risks, of dental amalgams. The FDA, the National Institutes of Health and the U.S. Public Health Service have each indicated that there are no demonstrated direct adverse health effects due to exposure to dental amalgam. In response to concerns raised by certain consumer groups regarding dental amalgam, the FDA formed an advisory committee in 2006 to review peer-reviewed scientific literature on the safety of dental amalgam. In July 2009, the FDA concluded its review of dental amalgam, confirming its use as a safe and effective restorative material for adults and children ages 6 and above. Also, as a result of this review, the FDA classified amalgam and its component parts, elemental mercury and powder alloy, as a Class II medical device. Previously there was no classification for encapsulated amalgam, and dental mercury (Class II) and alloy (Class II) were classified separately. This new regulation places encapsulated amalgam in the same class of devices as most other restorative materials, including composite and gold fillings, and makes amalgam subject to special controls by the FDA. In that respect, the FDA recommended that certain information about dental amalgam be provided, which includes information indicating that dental amalgam releases low levels of mercury vapor, and that studies on people ages six and over as well as FDA estimated exposures of children under six, have not indicated any adverse health risk associated with the use of dental amalgam. After the FDA issued this regulation, several petitions were filed asking the FDA to reconsider its position. Another advisory panel was established by the FDA to consider these petitions. Hearings of the advisory panel were held in December 2010. In September 2020, the FDA issued an updated recommendation that certain people are at higher risk for health problems from mercury-containing amalgam dental fillings, such as pregnant women and their developing fetuses, women who are planning to become pregnant, nursing women and their newborns and infants, children, especially those younger than six years of age, people with pre-existing neurological disease such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer disease, or Parkinson disease, people with impaired kidney function, and people with a known allergy to mercury or other components of dental amalgam. While the FDA's safety notice was not directed to manufacturers, Dentsply Sirona's dental amalgram products contained existing warnings against the use of the product in patients with the conditions mentioned in the FDA safety notice. Further, we have discontinued sales for all amalgram products as of December 2020.

In Europe, particularly in Scandinavia and Germany, the contents of mercury in amalgam filling materials have been the subject of public discussion. As a consequence, in 1994 the German health authorities required suppliers of dental amalgam to amend the instructions for use of amalgam filling materials to include a precaution against the use of amalgam for children less than eighteen years of age and to women of childbearing age. Additionally, some groups have asserted that the use of dental amalgam should be prohibited because of concerns about environmental impact from the disposition of mercury within dental amalgam, which has resulted in the sale of mercury containing products being banned in Sweden and severely curtailed in Norway. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency proposed in September 2014 certain effluent limitation guidelines and standards under the Clean Water Act to help cut discharges of mercury-containing dental amalgam to the environment. The rule would require affected dentists to use best available technology (amalgam separators) and other best management practices to control mercury discharges to publicly-owned treatment works. Similar regulations exist in Europe and in February 2016, the European Union adopted a ratification package regarding the United Nations Minamata Convention on Mercury, proposing rules restricting the use of dental amalgam to the encapsulated form and requiring the use of separators by dentists. The Company strongly recommends adherence to the American Dental Association’s Best Management Practices for Amalgam Waste and includes this in every package of dental amalgam. Dentsply Sirona also manufactures and sells non-amalgam dental filling materials that do not contain mercury.

9

The Company is also subject to domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders regarding anti-bribery and anti-corruption, including, but not limited to, the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.S. Federal Anti-Kickback Statute (“AKS”), the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act 2010 (c.23), Brazil’s Clean Company Act 2014 (Law No. 12,846) China’s National Health and Family Planning Commission (“NHFPC”) circulars No. 40 and No. 50, and similar international laws and regulations. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws applicable in non-U.S. jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from improperly offering or paying anything of value to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some of our customer relationships are with governmental entities and therefore may be subject to such anti-bribery laws. The AKS and similar fraud and abuse laws applicable in non-U.S. jurisdictions prohibit persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a health care program, such as, in the United States, Medicare or Medicaid. In the sale, delivery and servicing of our products to other countries, we must also comply with various domestic and foreign export control and trade embargo laws and regulations, including those administered by the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) and similar international governmental agencies, which may require licenses or other authorizations for transactions relating to certain countries and/or with certain individuals identified by the respective government. Despite our internal compliance program, our policies and procedures may not always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these requirements are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines and imprisonment.

The Company is subject to domestic and foreign laws, rules, regulations, self-regulatory codes, circulars and orders governing data privacy and transparency, including, but not limited to, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”) as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (the “HITECH Act”), the Physician Payments Sunshine Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the EU Directive 2002/58/EC (and implementing and local measures adopted thereunder), France’s Data Protection Act of 1978 (rev. 2004) and France’s Loi Bertrand, certain rules issued by Denmark’s Health and Medicines Authority, and similar international laws and regulations. HIPAA, as amended by the HITECH Act, and similar data-privacy laws applicable in non-U.S. jurisdictions, restrict the use and disclosure of personal health information, mandate the adoption of standards relating to the privacy and security of individually identifiable health information and require us to report certain breaches of unsecured, individually identifiable health information. The Physician Payments Sunshine Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act require the Company to record all transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and to report this data to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for public disclosure. Similar reporting requirements have also been enacted in several states, and an increasing number of countries worldwide either have adopted or are considering similar laws requiring transparency of interactions with health care professionals.

The Company is subject to changes in or the imposition of tariffs could make it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to other countries. These measures could also result in increased costs for goods imported into the United States. This in turn could require us to increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. We cannot predict future trade policy or the terms of any renegotiated trade agreements and their impact on our business. The adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, the occurrence of a trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers and our suppliers, which in turn could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.

The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the laws and regulations that regulate its business. There are, however, significant uncertainties involving the application of various legal requirements, the violation of which could result in, among other things, sanctions. See Item 1A, "Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K for additional detail.

Sources and Supply of Raw Materials and Finished Goods

The Company manufactures the majority of the products that it sells. Most of the raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its products are purchased from various suppliers and are typically available from numerous sources. No single supplier accounts for more than 10% of Dentsply Sirona’s supply requirements.

10

Intellectual Property

Products manufactured by Dentsply Sirona are sold primarily under its own tradenames and trademarks. Dentsply Sirona also owns and maintains more than 5,000 patents throughout the world and is licensed under a number of patents owned by others.

Dentsply Sirona’s policy is to protect its products and technology through patents and trademark registrations both in the U.S. and in significant international markets. The Company monitors trademark use worldwide and promotes enforcement of its patents and trademarks in a manner that is designed to balance the cost of such protection against obtaining the greatest value for the Company. Dentsply Sirona believes its patents and trademark properties are important and contribute to the Company’s marketing position but it does not consider its overall business to be materially dependent upon any individual patent or trademark. Additional information regarding certain risks related to our intellectual property is included in Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K and is incorporated herein by reference.

Human Capital

The Company’s workforce is critical to meeting its strategic goals in order to deliver on the promises of growing revenues, improving margins, and simplifying the organization. At December 31, 2020, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 15,000 employees which the Company relies on to accomplish these strategic objectives in order to continue to lead the dental industry. Of these employees, approximately 3,900 were employed in the United States and approximately 11,100 outside the United States. Some of the Company's employees outside of the United States are covered by collective bargaining, union contract, worker councils, or other similar type programs. The Company believes that it generally has a positive relationship with its employees. Our key human capital management priorities include talent acquisition, diversity and inclusion, engagement, development, and retention.

Talent Acquisition, Engagement, Development, and Retention

In 2020, we enhanced our strategy for attracting, engaging, developing and retaining talent. The Company created future-focused early career programs with universities, local trade schools that allow for on-the-job, experienced-based training. To foster engagement and communication with employees while keeping them safe and healthy, in 2020 we conducted numerous virtual town halls and video chats, to keep our employees informed and to provide multiple opportunities for employees globally to ask management questions. We also launched a global employee assistance program to support employees with personal or work-related issues, focusing on health, including mental and emotional well-being. We created a global skill development approach within the Company’s segments and functions for leadership and we are currently engaged in efforts to improve the Company’s retention of critical global talent through appropriate opportunities and rewards.

Diversity and Inclusion

We view diversity in our organization as a source of strength and we seek to provide opportunities for all employees to bring their perspective, experience, and lens to the workplace. We believe our commitment to a diverse workforce drives innovation and customer centricity. To further these goals, in 2020, the Company established a global Diversity & Inclusion Council to evaluate current policies and processes to ensure they are inclusive, to benchmark challenge areas and prioritize next steps. The Company also hired a Diversity & Inclusion Lead to develop awareness through training, career coaching, networking and talent development. The Company continues to measure its progress against key metrics.

Diversity & Inclusion Council

The Company’s Diversity & Inclusion Council is a group of demographically and functionally diverse global employees dedicated to enabling the Diversity & Inclusion function and championing initiatives that support the organization internally and externally. The Diversity & Inclusion Council’s top priority is to intentionally increase awareness and impact of Diversity & Inclusion priorities as well as increasing leaders’ ability to discuss and be held accountable for driving sustainable diversity, inclusion and equity outcomes.

Employee Resource Groups

The Company has supported the launch of employee-led employee resource groups to foster a diverse, inclusive workplace aligned with the strategy. Potential benefits of employee resource groups include the development of future leaders, increased employee engagement and expanded market reach. There has been high employee participation in the employee resource groups and subsequent events.
11


Training and Awareness

In 2020, the Company launched training to provide further awareness on diversity and inclusion-related topics. Specifically, we offer unconscious bias training for all employees to provide a better understanding of how employees’ actions and words influence our work environment and our interactions. We also train and coach people managers to use performance development tools to drive inclusive behaviors and practices. Optionally, employees were invited to attend small group discussions to share their experiences on the topic of diversity and inclusion.

Talent Acquisition

In 2020, the Company issued talent sourcing guidelines for director-level and above roles requiring a diverse candidate slate for consideration. We provide internal career coaching and utilize talent profiles to highlight diverse talent for internal opportunities. We educate our managers on inclusive hiring practices.

Measuring Progress

Executive management reviews the Company’s Diversity & Inclusion key metrics on a monthly basis, including attraction, engagement, advancement, and retention of diverse talent. In 2020, the Company deployed a pulse survey to US employees to gather feedback on diversity and inclusion-related topics. Results of the survey were used to finalize the diversity and inclusion strategy.

Environmental, Health & Safety Matters

Dentsply Sirona believes that Environmental, Health & Safety ("EHS") is critical to the success of our customers and our Company. We are committed to environmental stewardship and to health and safety excellence in our global operations and distribution. As such, we have adopted policies that call for compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment, health and safety of our employees, and neighboring communities. The Company believe that its operations comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.

Safety is integrated into the way we do business. Our safety program is structured on the foundation that every employee is engaged and committed to improving safe operating practices and eliminating or reducing the risk for injuries or illnesses. When health and safety incidents do occur, we strive to determine the causes and eliminate the potential for future similar incidents.

Our EHS policies and standards are a key element of the foundation upon which we develop, market, manufacture, and distribute products and services to our global customers. We operate our manufacturing facilities using a common set of internal standards. These standards support a consistent approach to EHS performance improvement.

Other Factors Affecting the Business

The Company’s business is subject to quarterly fluctuations of consolidated net sales, net income and cash flows. The Company typically implements most of its price changes in the beginning of the first or fourth quarter. Price changes, other marketing and promotional programs including trade shows, management of inventory levels by distributors and the implementation of strategic initiatives, may impact sales levels in a given period. In addition, major new product introductions may also impact net sales as older products become less desirable compared to the new products. Sales for the industry and the Company are generally strongest in the second and fourth calendar quarters and weaker in the first and third calendar quarters, due to the effects of the items noted above and due to the impact of holidays and vacations, particularly throughout Europe.

The Company tries to maintain short lead times within its manufacturing, as such, the backlog on products is generally not material to the financial statements.

Securities Exchange Act Reports

The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including the Company, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that the Company files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company files annual reports, quarterly reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”).

12

Dentsply Sirona also makes available free of charge through its website at www.dentsplysirona.com its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Information on the Company’s website does not constitute part of this document.

Forward-Looking Statements and Associated Risks

All statements in this Form 10-K that do not directly and exclusively relate to historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements.” These statements represent current expectations and beliefs, and no assurance can be given that the results described in such statements will be achieved. Such statements are subject to numerous assumptions, risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in such statements, many of which are outside of our control. Furthermore, many of these risks and uncertainties are currently amplified by and may continue to be amplified by or may, in the future, be amplified by, the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic and the impact of varying private and governmental responses that affect our customers, employees, vendors and the economies and communities where they operate. No assurance can be given that any expectation, belief, goal or plan set forth in any forward-looking statement can or will be achieved, and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements which speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update or release any revisions to any forward-looking statement or to report any events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

You should carefully consider these and other relevant factors, including those risk factors in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K and any other information included or incorporated by reference in this report, and information which may be contained in the Company’s other filings with the SEC, when reviewing any forward-looking statement. Investors should understand it is impossible to predict or identify all such factors or risks. As such, you should not consider either foregoing lists, or the risks identified in the Company’s SEC filings, to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties associated with an investment in the Company.