Item 1.	Business. 

Yum! Brands, Inc. (referred to herein as “YUM”, the “Registrant” or the “Company”), was incorporated under the laws of the state of North Carolina in 1997.  The principal executive offices of YUM are located at 1441 Gardiner Lane, Louisville, Kentucky 40213, and the telephone number at that location is (502) 874-8300. Our website address is https://www.yum.com.

YUM, together with its subsidiaries, is referred to in this Form 10-K annual report (“Form 10-K”) as the Company.  The terms “we,” “us” and “our” are also used in the Form 10-K to refer to the Company.  Throughout this Form 10-K, the terms “restaurants,” “stores” and “units” are used interchangeably. While YUM does not directly own or operate any restaurants, throughout this document we may refer to restaurants that are owned or operated by our subsidiaries as being Company-owned.

Overview of Business

YUM has over 50,000 restaurants in more than 150 countries and territories primarily operating under the four concepts of KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill (the “Concepts”).  The Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell brands are global leaders of the chicken, pizza and Mexican-style food categories, respectively. The Habit Burger Grill, a concept we acquired on March 18, 2020, is a fast-casual restaurant concept specializing in made-to-order chargrilled burgers, sandwiches and more. At December 31, 2020, 98% of our units are operated by independent franchisees or licensees under the terms of franchise or license agreements.  The terms franchise or franchisee within this Form 10-K are meant to describe third parties that operate units under either franchise or license agreements.

The following is a summary of our Concepts’ operations and a brief description of each Concept as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020:

Number of Units		% of Units International		Number of Countries and Territories		% Franchised		
System Sales(a)(b)
 (in Millions)
KFC Division		25,000 			84 	%		146 			99 	%		$	26,289 			Pizza Hut Division		17,639 			63 	%		110 			99 %		11,955 			Taco Bell Division		7,427 			8 	%		31 			94 	%		11,745 			Habit Burger Grill Division		287 			3 	%		3 			12 	%		370 			YUM		50,353 			65 	%		155 			98 	%		$	50,359 														 
(a)    Constitutes sales of all restaurants, both Company-owned and franchised. See further discussion of this performance metric within Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K.

(b)    System sales of Habit Burger Grill are for the period from March 18, 2020 through December 31, 2020.

KFC

KFC was founded in Corbin, Kentucky, by Colonel Harland D. Sanders, an early developer of the quick service food business and a pioneer of the restaurant franchise concept.  The Colonel perfected his secret blend of 11 herbs and spices for Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1939 and signed up his first franchisee in 1952. KFC restaurants across the world offer fried and non-fried chicken products such as sandwiches, chicken strips, chicken-on-the-bone and other chicken products marketed under a variety of names.

Pizza Hut

The first Pizza Hut restaurant was opened in 1958 in Wichita, Kansas, and within a year, the first franchise unit was opened.  Today, Pizza Hut is the largest restaurant chain in the world specializing in the sale of ready-to-eat pizza products. Pizza Hut operates in the delivery, carryout and casual dining segments around the world.


3

Taco Bell

The first Taco Bell restaurant was opened in 1962 by Glen Bell in Downey, California, and in 1964, the first Taco Bell franchise was sold. Taco Bell specializes in Mexican-style food products, including various types of tacos, burritos, quesadillas, salads, nachos and other related items.

Habit Burger Grill

The first Habit Burger Grill restaurant opened in 1969 in Santa Barbara, California. The Habit Burger Grill restaurant concept is built around a distinctive and diverse menu that includes chargrilled burgers and sandwiches made-to-order over an open flame and topped with fresh ingredients.

Business Strategy

Through our Recipe for Growth and Good we intend to unlock the growth potential of our Concepts and YUM, drive increased collaboration across our Concepts and geographies and consistently deliver better customer experiences, improved unit economics and higher rates of growth. Key enablers include accelerated use of technology and better leverage of our systemwide scale.

Our Recipe for Growth is based on four key drivers:
•Unrivaled Culture and Talent: Leverage our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success
•Unmatched Operating Capability: Recruit and equip the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences
•Relevant, Easy and Distinctive Brands: Innovate and elevate iconic restaurant brands people trust and champion
•Bold Restaurant Development: Drive market and franchise expansion with strong economics and value

Our global citizenship and sustainability strategy, called the Recipe for Good, reflects our priorities for socially responsible growth, risk management and sustainable stewardship of our people, food and planet.  

Information about Operating Segments

As of December 31, 2020, YUM consists of four operating segments:  

•The KFC Division which includes our worldwide operations of the KFC concept
•The Pizza Hut Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Pizza Hut concept
•The Taco Bell Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Taco Bell concept
•The Habit Burger Grill Division which includes our worldwide operations of the Habit Burger Grill concept

Franchise Agreements

The franchise programs of the Company are designed to promote consistency and quality, and the Company is selective in granting franchises. The Company is focused on partnering with franchisees who have the commitment, capability and capitalization to grow our Concepts. Franchisees can range in size from individuals owning just one restaurant to large publicly-traded companies.  The Company has franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business, such as our relationship with Yum China, our strategic alliance with Telepizza Group S.A., who is the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America (excluding Brazil) and portions of Europe and our relationship with certain large franchisees, such as Flynn Restaurant Group, an existing YUM franchisee, which recently announced its intention to acquire approximately 950 Pizza Hut U.S. restaurants which would make it the largest operator of Pizza Hut restaurants in the U.S.

The Company has successfully increased franchise restaurant ownership in recent years, and utilizes both store-level franchise and master franchise programs to grow our businesses.  Of our over 49,000 franchised units at December 31, 2020, approximately 30% operate under our master franchise programs, including over 9,500 units in mainland China. The remainder of our franchise units operate under store-level franchise agreements. Under both types of franchise programs, franchisees supply capital by purchasing or leasing the land, building, equipment, signs, seating, inventories and supplies and, over the longer term, by reinvesting in the business.  In certain historical refranchising transactions the Company may have retained ownership of land and building and continues to lease them to the franchisee.  Store-level franchise agreements  typically require  payment to the Company of certain upfront fees such as initial fees paid upon opening of a store, fees paid to renew the term of the franchise agreement and fees paid in the event the franchise agreement is transferred to another franchisee. 
4

Franchisees also pay monthly continuing fees based on a percentage of their restaurants’ sales (typically between 4% to 6%) and are required to spend a certain amount to advertise and promote the brand.  Under master franchise arrangements, the Company enters into agreements that allow master franchisees to operate restaurants as well as sub-franchise restaurants within certain geographic territories.  Master franchisees are typically responsible for overseeing development within their territories and performing certain other administrative duties with regard to the oversight of sub-franchisees. In exchange, master franchisees retain a certain percentage of fees payable by the sub-franchisees under their franchise agreements and typically pay lower fees for the restaurants they operate. Our largest master franchisee, Yum China, pays the Company a continuing fee of 3% on system sales of our Concepts in mainland China. The use by Yum China of certain of our material trademarks and service marks is governed by a master license agreement between Yum Restaurants Consulting (Shanghai) Company Limited (“YCCL”), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Yum China, and YUM, through YRI China Franchising LLC, a subsidiary of YUM, effective from January 1, 2020, and previously through Yum! Restaurants Asia Pte. Ltd., another subsidiary of YUM, from October 31, 2016 to December 31, 2019.

The Company seeks to maintain strong and open relationships with our franchisees and their representatives.  To this end, the Company invests a significant amount of time working with the franchisee community and their representative organizations on key aspects of the business, including products, equipment, operational improvements and standards.

Restaurant Operations

Through its Concepts, YUM develops, operates and franchises a worldwide system of both traditional and non-traditional Quick Service Restaurants (“QSR”).  Traditional units can feature dine-in, carryout, drive-thru and delivery services.  Non-traditional units include express units and kiosks that have a more limited menu, usually generate lower sales volumes and operate in non-traditional locations like malls, airports, gasoline service stations, train stations, subways, convenience stores, stadiums, amusement parks and colleges, where a full-scale traditional outlet would not be practical or efficient.

Most restaurants in each Concept offer consumers the ability to dine in, carryout food and/or have the Concepts' food delivered either through store-level or third-party delivery services. In addition, Taco Bell and KFC offer a drive-thru option in many stores.  Pizza Hut and Habit Burger Grill offer a drive-thru option on a much more limited basis.  

Our restaurant operations and results were significantly impacted by a novel strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, in the year ended December 31, 2020. This included having a significant number of our open restaurants subject to dining room closures and other limitations on access. In response, we accelerated our deployment of digital and technology initiatives to enhance the customer experience and our off-premise capabilities. This included increasing our focus on driving digital sales where customers utilize ordering interaction that is primarily facilitated by automated technology. In 2020, our system restaurants generated digital sales of $17 billion, which represented an approximate 45% increase over 2019. Additionally, the number of restaurants that now offer delivery increased to over 35,000 restaurants, which represents over 70% of our global system.

Restaurant management structure varies by Concept and unit size.  Generally, each restaurant is led by a restaurant general manager (“RGM”), together with one or more assistant managers, depending on the operating complexity and sales volume of the restaurant.  Each Concept issues detailed manuals, which may then be customized to meet local regulations and customs. These manuals set forth standards and requirements for all aspects of restaurant operations, including food safety and quality, food handling and product preparation procedures, equipment maintenance, facility standards and accounting control procedures.  The restaurant management teams are responsible for the day-to-day operation of each unit and for ensuring compliance with operating standards. CHAMPS – which stands for Cleanliness, Hospitality, Accuracy, Maintenance, Product Quality and Speed of Service – is our proprietary systemwide program for training, measuring and rewarding employee performance against key customer measures.  CHAMPS is intended to align the operating processes of our entire system around one core set of standards. RGMs’ efforts, including CHAMPS performance measures, are monitored by Area Coaches, where sufficient scale allows.  Area Coaches typically work with approximately six to twelve restaurants.  

Supply and Distribution

The Company and franchisees of the Concepts are substantial purchasers of a number of food and paper products, equipment and other restaurant supplies. The principal items purchased include chicken, cheese, beef and pork products, paper and packaging materials. Prices paid for these supplies fluctuate.  When prices increase, the Concepts may attempt to pass on such increases to their customers, although there is no assurance that this can be done in practice. The Company does not typically experience significant continuous shortages of supplies, and alternative sources for most of these supplies are generally available.  

5

In the U.S., the Company, along with the representatives of the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchisee groups, are members of Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC (“RSCS"), a third party which is responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment.  Additionally, The Habit Burger Grill entered into a purchasing agreement with RSCS effective July 31, 2020. The core mission of RSCS is to provide the lowest possible sustainable store-delivered prices for restaurant products and equipment.  This arrangement combines the purchasing power of the Company-owned and franchisee restaurants, which the Company believes leverages the system’s scale to drive cost savings and effectiveness in the purchasing function.  The Company also believes that RSCS fosters closer alignment of interests and a stronger relationship with our franchisee community.

Most food products, paper and packaging supplies, and equipment used in restaurant operations are distributed to individual restaurant units by third-party distribution companies.  In the U.S., McLane Foodservice, Inc. is the exclusive distributor for the majority of items used in Company-owned restaurants and for a substantial number of franchisee restaurants.  Outside the U.S., we and our Concepts’ franchisees primarily use decentralized sourcing and distribution systems involving many different global, regional and local suppliers and distributors.  Our international franchisees generally select and manage their own third-party suppliers and distributors, subject to our internal standards. All suppliers and distributors are expected to provide products and/or services that comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations in the state and/or country in which they operate as well as comply with our internal standards.

Advertising and Promotional Programs

Company-owned and franchise restaurants are required to spend a percentage of their respective restaurants’ sales on advertising programs with the goal of increasing sales and enhancing the reputation of the Concepts. Advertising may be conducted nationally, regionally and locally. When multiple franchisees operate in the same country or region, the national and regional advertising spending is typically conducted by a cooperative to which the franchisees and Company-owned restaurants, if any, contribute funds as a percentage of restaurants’ sales. The contributions are primarily used to pay for expenses relating to purchasing media for advertising, market research, commercial production, talent payments and other support functions for the respective Concepts. We have the right to control the advertising activities of certain advertising cooperatives, typically in markets where we have Company-owned restaurants, through our majority voting rights.

Trademarks and Patents

The Company and its Concepts own numerous registered trademarks and service marks.  The Company believes that many of these marks, including our Kentucky Fried Chicken®, KFC®, Pizza Hut®, Taco Bell® and The Habit® marks, have significant value and material importance to our business.  The Company’s policy is to pursue registration of important marks whenever feasible and to oppose vigorously any infringement of our marks.  

The use of certain of these marks by franchisees has been authorized in our franchise agreements.  Under current law and with proper use, the Company’s rights in our marks can generally last indefinitely.  The Company also has certain patents on restaurant equipment which, while valuable, are not currently considered material to our business.

Working Capital

Information about the Company’s working capital is included in MD&A in Part II, Item 7 and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Part II, Item 8.

Seasonal Operations

The Company does not consider its operations to be seasonal to any material degree.

Competition

The retail food industry, in which our Concepts compete, is made up of supermarkets, supercenters, warehouse stores, convenience stores, coffee shops, snack bars, delicatessens and restaurants (including those in the QSR segment), and is intensely competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives, customer service reputation, restaurant location and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. Competition has also increased from and been enabled by delivery aggregators and other food delivery services in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, which trend has accelerated following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Concepts also face competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side
6

dishes. The retail food industry is often affected by: changes in consumer tastes; national, regional or local economic conditions; currency fluctuations; demographic trends; traffic patterns; the type, number and location of competing food retailers and products; and disposable purchasing power.  Within the retail food industry, each of our Concepts competes with international, national and regional chains as well as locally-owned establishments, not only for customers, but also for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites and qualified franchisees.  Given the various types and vast number of competitors, our Concepts do not constitute a significant portion of the retail food industry in terms of number of system units or system sales, either on a worldwide or individual country basis.

Environmental Matters

The Company is not aware of any federal, state or local environmental laws or regulations that will materially affect our earnings or competitive position, or result in material capital expenditures.  However, the Company cannot predict the effect on our operations due to possible future environmental legislation or regulations.  During 2020, there were no material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities and no such material expenditures are anticipated.

Government Regulation

U.S. Operations.  The Company and its U.S. operations, as well as our franchisees, are subject to various federal, state and local laws affecting our business, including laws and regulations concerning information security, privacy, labor and employment, health, marketing, food labeling, competition, public accommodation, sanitation and safety.  Each of our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurants in the U.S. must comply with licensing requirements and regulations promulgated by a number of governmental authorities, which include health, sanitation, safety, fire and zoning agencies in the state and/or municipality in which the restaurant is located.  In addition, each Concept must comply with various state and federal laws that regulate the franchisor/franchisee relationship.  To date, the Company has not been materially adversely affected by such licensing requirements and regulations or by any difficulty, delay or failure to obtain required licenses or approvals.

International Operations.  Our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurants outside the U.S. are subject to national and local laws and regulations which have similarities to those affecting U.S. restaurants but may differ among jurisdictions.  The restaurants outside the U.S. are also subject to tariffs and regulations on imported commodities and equipment, laws regulating foreign investment and anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws.  

See Item 1A “Risk Factors” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of risks relating to federal, state, local and international regulation of our business.

Human Capital Management

Overview

As of December 31, 2020, the Company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 38,000 persons, including approximately 23,000 employees in the U.S. and approximately 15,000 employees outside the U.S. Approximately 90% and 85% of our U.S. and international employees, respectively, work in restaurants while the remainder work in our restaurant-support centers. In the U.S., approximately 85% of our Company-owned restaurant employees are part-time and at least 45% have been employed by the Company for less than a year. Some of our International employees are subject to labor council relationships whose terms vary due to the diverse countries in which the Company operates.

In addition to the persons employed by the Company and its subsidiaries, our approximately 2,000 franchisees around the world are estimated to employ over 1 million people working in and supporting the approximately 49,000 restaurants they operate. Each year YUM and our franchisees around the world create thousands of restaurant jobs, which are part-time, entry-level opportunities to grow careers at our KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill brands. As evidence of the opportunities these positions create, approximately 80% of our Company-owned Restaurant General Managers (“RGMs”) located in the U.S. have been promoted from other positions in our restaurants and such RGMs often earn competitive pay greater than the average American household income.

Human capital management considerations are integral to our Recipe for Growth and Good strategy, the drivers of which include leveraging our culture and people capability to fuel brand performance and franchise success, as well as recruiting and equipping the best restaurant operators in the world to deliver great customer experiences. Our investment in people includes creating a culture of engagement that attracts, retains and grows the best people and creates high performance in our restaurants. We are also highly focused on building an inclusive culture among our employees, franchisees, suppliers and partners to reflect
7

the diversity of our customers and communities. Our commitments and progress towards executing this strategy are reflected below.

Culture & Talent

We believe that our culture and talent provide us with a competitive advantage with respect to the performance of our business. Our areas of focus in this regard include the following:

•Measuring YUM employee engagement regularly. For example, every other year we conduct a global employee engagement survey of all employees working in our restaurant support centers. The most recent survey conducted was in 2019 and reflected an engagement level among our employees significantly exceeding the average engagement levels of benchmarked companies.

•Providing YUM employees with training and development that builds world-class leaders and drives business results. We promote these efforts through initiatives such as our leadership development program (Heartstyles), our unconscious bias program (Inclusive Leadership) and training programs with respect to our compliance polices, including our Code of Conduct. We also intend to make available the Heartstyles program to our franchisees so that their employees may benefit as well.

•Enabling a culture that fuels results and cross-brand collaboration on operational execution, people capability and customer experience initiatives across our system.

•Assessing progress towards lowering turnover and increasing retention rates, particularly at the restaurant-employee level.

Equity, Inclusion & Belonging

In connection with our focus on equity, inclusion and belonging, our areas of focus include the following:

•Continually building upon ongoing inclusion efforts to help ensure our workplaces are environments where all people can be successful.

•Significantly increasing the number of women in our senior leadership globally, with a goal of achieving gender parity by 2030. In 2019, approximately 40% of our global leadership roles were held by women and approximately half of our global above-restaurant workforce were women.

•Increasing representation of Black and Latinx U.S. associates among our executive and management ranks, franchisees and suppliers over the next 10 years to match the combined demographics of those groups within the U.S. We intend to further this goal through an increased focus on coaching capability, sponsorship programs and customized individual development plans. Moreover, we have joined We Are All Human's Hispanic Promise, a national pledge to hire, promote, retain and celebrate Hispanics in the workplace. We also plan to enhance our relationship with the Consortium for Graduate Studies in Management, which brings outstanding underrepresented talent of color and companies like YUM together to fill critical organizational roles.

•Continuing to roll out Inclusive Leadership training and anti-racism training across our system. We intend to expand our Inclusive Leadership training to employees and franchisees around the world and have started development of an online module of this training program to help provide even greater access.

8

COVID-19 Response

In connection with navigating the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been heavily focused on the health and safety of the employees, customers and franchisees of our Concepts. Our response efforts during the pandemic have included the following:

•Supporting impacted employees through establishment of a global medical relief fund through Yum! Brands Foundation, Inc. for Company-owned and franchise restaurant team members diagnosed with COVID-19 or acting as the primary caregiver for someone diagnosed with COVID-19.

•Assisting franchisees through a global franchise health and COVID-19 support team for business continuity and providing assistance to franchisees who were in good standing and needed more access to capital, primarily through deferrals of capital obligations for remodels and new development. Additionally, where necessary, we provided grace periods for near-term payments due to YUM.

•Keeping restaurants open safely through increased use of low contact options such as delivery, drive-thru and curbside pickup, providing for contactless delivery, increased cleaning and sanitization and providing for personal protective equipment, temperature checks and counter shields.

Available Information

The Company makes available, through the Investor Relations section of its internet website at https://www.yum.com, its annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at https://www.sec.gov.  

Our Corporate Governance Principles and our Code of Conduct are also located within the Investor Relations section of the Company's website.  The references to the Company’s website address in this Form 10-K do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K.  These documents, as well as our SEC filings, are available in print free of charge to any shareholder who requests a copy from our Investor Relations Department.

Item 1A.	Risk Factors. 

You should carefully review the risks described below as they identify important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements, expectations and historical trends. Any of the following risk factors, either by itself or together with other risk factors, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and/or financial condition.

Risks Related to COVID-19, Health Epidemics and Food Safety

The novel coronavirus (COVID-19) global pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

In late 2019, COVID-19 was first detected and in March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. During 2020, COVID-19 spread throughout the U.S. and the rest of the world, and governmental authorities implemented measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19. These measures include restrictions on travel outside the home or other limitations on business and other activities, as well as encouraging social distancing. Moreover, COVID-19 cases increased in late 2020 and early 2021 in the U.S. and various other regions of the world in which we have operations, which resulted in some governmental authorities re-imposing restrictions on business and other activities that were previously lifted or reduced.

Developments related to COVID-19 have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The impacts of COVID-19 have included the ongoing loss of revenues due to reduced and limited store-level operations, continued or increased full or partial dining room closures, other restrictions on our business and operations, continued delays in reopening, and an increase in the number of permanent restaurant closures during the year ended December 31, 2020. The impact on our sales in each of our markets has been dependent on, among other factors, the timing, severity and duration of the outbreak, measures implemented by government authorities to reduce the spread of COVID-19, and our reliance on dine-in sales in the market. Additionally, we and our franchisees have made operational changes intended to safeguard employees and customers in response to COVID-19, including increased cleaning and sanitization, installation of counter
9

screens and purchasing personal protective equipment, which have increased and may continue to increase restaurant operating costs and impact restaurant-level margins and return on invested capital. Our and our franchisees restaurants may experience interruptions of food and other supplies as well as labor shortages as a result of COVID-19, thereby disrupting our and our franchisees operations and impacting same-store sales negatively.

Our success is heavily reliant on our Concepts’ franchisees, and the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause financial distress for certain franchisees, particularly those located in areas most significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of this distress, our franchisees may not be able to meet their financial obligations to us as they come due, including the payment of royalties, rent, or other amounts due to the Company. This has led to, and may continue to lead to, write-offs of amounts we have currently due from our franchisees beyond amounts we have reserved, as well as decreased future collections from franchisees. In certain instances we offered grace periods to our franchisees, who were in good standing with the Company and needed greater access to capital, for certain near-term payments due to us. Offering grace periods negatively impacts the Company’s cash flows in the short-term, and if grace periods are necessitated in the future there is no guarantee that our franchisees will ultimately pay amounts due. Additionally, our franchisees may not be able to make payments to landlords, distributors and key suppliers, as well as payments to service any debt they may have outstanding. Franchisee financial distress has also led to, and may continue to lead to, permanent store closures and delayed or reduced new franchisee development, which may further harm our results and liquidity. Further, in some cases, we are contingently liable for franchisee lease obligations, and a failure by a franchisee to perform its obligations under such lease could result in direct payment obligations for YUM.

We are unable to fully predict the impact that COVID-19 will have on our and our franchisees’ operations going forward due to various uncertainties, including the severity and duration of the outbreak, the timing and availability of effective medical treatments and vaccines, the timing and effectiveness of the ongoing rollout of vaccines, the extent to which COVID-19 may cause customers to continue to be reluctant to return to in-restaurant dining or otherwise change their consumption patterns (including after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended), additional actions that may be taken by governmental authorities, and the length and severity of ongoing negative economic conditions in the U.S. and globally arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, if conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic result in significant disruptions to capital and financial markets, or negatively impact our credit ratings, our cost of borrowing, our ability to access capital on favorable terms and our overall liquidity and capital structure could be adversely impacted. Finally, the negative economic conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in the impairment of the value of certain of our restaurant assets as well as the goodwill impairment charge we incurred with respect to our Habit Burger Grill reporting unit in the first quarter of 2020. If such conditions persist and continue to adversely affect our business, this could give rise to impairment in the value of other tangible or intangible assets. Conversely, for our restaurants that prominently feature drive-thru, carryout and delivery options, COVID-19 has in many cases contributed to an increase in sales during 2020. If the impact of COVID-19 recedes, in-person dining restrictions are lifted or lessened and the restaurant industry in general returns to more normal operations, the benefits to sales experienced by certain of our restaurants, including our Pizza Hut delivery restaurants, could wane and our results could be negatively impacted.

Food safety and food-borne illness concerns may have an adverse effect on our business.

Food-borne illnesses, such as E. coli, Listeria, Salmonella and Trichinosis, occur or may occur within our system from time to time. In addition, food safety issues such as food tampering, contamination and adulteration occur or may occur within our system from time to time. Furthermore, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there are now stricter health regulations and guidelines and increased public concern over food safety standards and controls. Any report or publicity linking us or one of our Concepts’ restaurants, including restaurants operated by us or our Concepts’ franchisees, or linking our competitors or the retail food industry generally, to instances of food-borne illness or food safety issues could adversely affect our Concepts’ brands and reputations as well as our revenues and profits, and possibly lead to product liability claims, litigation, governmental investigations or actions, and damages. If a customer of one of our Concepts’ restaurants becomes ill from food borne illnesses or as a result of food safety issues, restaurants in our system may be temporarily closed, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, instances or allegations of food-borne illness or food safety issues, real or perceived, involving our restaurants, restaurants of competitors, or our suppliers or distributors (regardless of whether we use or have used those suppliers or distributors), or otherwise involving the types of food served at our restaurants, could result in negative publicity that could adversely affect either our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ revenues and profits. The occurrence of food-borne illnesses or food safety issues could also adversely affect the price and availability of affected ingredients, which could result in disruptions in our supply chain and/or lower margins for us and our Concepts’ franchisees.

Health concerns arising from the outbreak of a health epidemic or pandemic may have an adverse effect on our business.

10

Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of a widespread health epidemic or pandemic (in addition to the current COVID-19 pandemic, as discussed above), including arising from various strains of avian flu or swine flu, such as H1N1, particularly if located in regions from which we derive a significant amount of revenue or profit. The occurrence of such an outbreak or other adverse public health developments could materially disrupt our business and operations. Such events could also significantly impact our industry and cause a temporary closure of restaurants, which could severely disrupt our or our franchisees’ operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In addition, our operations could be disrupted if any of our employees or employees of our business partners were suspected of having the avian flu or swine flu, or other illnesses such as hepatitis A or norovirus, since this could require us or our business partners to quarantine some or all of such employees or disinfect our restaurant facilities. Outbreaks of avian flu occur from time to time around the world, and such outbreaks have resulted in confirmed human cases. It is possible that outbreaks could reach pandemic levels. Public concern over avian flu generally may cause fear about the consumption of chicken, eggs and other products derived from poultry, which could cause customers to consume less poultry and related products. Because poultry is a menu offering for our Concepts, this would likely result in lower revenues and profits for us and our Concepts’ franchisees. Avian flu outbreaks could also adversely affect the price and availability of poultry, which could negatively impact profit margins and revenues for us and our Concepts’ franchisees.

Furthermore, other viruses may be transmitted through human contact, and the risk of contracting viruses could cause employees or guests to avoid gathering in public places, which could adversely affect restaurant guest traffic or the ability to adequately staff restaurants. We could also be adversely affected if government authorities impose mandatory closures, seek voluntary closures, impose restrictions on operations of restaurants, or restrict the import or export of products, or if suppliers issue mass recalls of products. Even if such measures are not implemented and a virus or other disease does not spread significantly, the perceived risk of infection or health risk may adversely affect our business and operating results.

Risks Related to our Business Strategy and reliance upon Franchisees

Our operating results and growth strategies are closely and increasingly tied to the success of our Concepts’ franchisees.

The vast majority (98%) of our restaurants are operated by our Concepts’ franchisees, and our percentage of franchise-owned restaurants has increased in recent years. Our refranchising efforts have increased our dependence on the financial success and cooperation of our Concepts’ franchisees. In addition, our long-term growth depends on maintaining the pace of our net system unit growth rate. Nearly all of this unit growth is expected to result from new unit openings by our Concepts’ franchisees. We also rely on master franchisees, who have rights to license to sub-franchisees the right to develop and operate restaurants, to achieve our expectations for new unit development. If our Concepts’ franchisees and master franchisees do not meet our expectations for new unit development, we may not achieve our desired growth.

We have limited control over how our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses are run, and their inability to operate successfully could adversely affect our operating results through decreased fees paid to us for royalties, advertising funds contributions, and other discrete services we may provide to our Concept’s franchisees (e.g. management of e-commerce platforms). If our Concepts’ franchisees fail to adequately capitalize their businesses or incur too much debt, if their operating expenses or commodity prices increase or if economic or sales trends deteriorate such that they are unable to operate profitably or repay existing debt, it could result in their financial distress, including insolvency or bankruptcy, or the inability to meet development targets or obligations. If a significant franchisee of one of our Concepts becomes, or a significant number of our Concepts’ franchisees in the aggregate become, financially distressed, our operating results could be impacted through reduced or delayed fee payments that cause us to record bad debt expense, reduced advertising fund contributions, and reduced new unit development. For example, NPC International, Inc. (“NPC”), which had been our largest Pizza Hut U.S. franchisee, filed voluntary petitions in July 2020 to restructure under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In connection with this bankruptcy filing, we consented to the closure of up to 300 mutually selected underperforming units, primarily dine-in locations. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused and may continue to cause financial distress for some portion of our Concepts’ franchisees. In addition, we are secondarily liable on certain of our Concepts’ franchisees’ restaurant lease agreements, including lease agreements that we have guaranteed or assigned to franchisees in connection with the refranchising of certain Company-owned restaurants. Our operating results could be impacted by any increased rent obligations for such leased properties to the extent our Concepts’ franchisees default on such lease agreements. In addition, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to attract and retain quality personnel or adequately engage in succession planning may adversely affect their restaurant operations and the development of new restaurants, which in turn could hurt our business.

Our success also depends on the willingness and ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to implement marketing programs and major initiatives such as restaurant remodels or equipment or technology upgrades, which may require financial investment. Our Concepts may be unable to successfully implement strategies that we believe are necessary for further growth if their franchisees do not participate, which in turn may harm the growth prospects and financial condition of the Company.
11

Additionally, the failure of our Concepts’ franchisees to focus on key elements of restaurant operations, such as quality, service and cleanliness (even if such failures do not rise to the level of breaching the related franchise documents) may be attributed by guests to our Concepts’ entire brand and could have a negative impact on our business.

Our reliance on master franchise arrangements can decrease our level of control over our Concepts’ restaurants and increase certain risks arising from franchise operations. For example, we rely on our master franchisees to monitor and enforce sub-franchisee compliance with our operating standards, and a failure to comply with such standards could adversely affect our business.

The financial performance of certain of our Concepts’ franchisees has an outsized impact on our operating results.

We have franchise relationships that are particularly important to our business, such as our relationship with Yum China. In connection with the spin-off of our China business in 2016 into an independent publicly-traded company (the “Separation” or “Yum China spin-off”), we entered into a Master License Agreement pursuant to which Yum China is the exclusive licensee of the KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Concepts and their related marks and other intellectual property rights for restaurant services in mainland China. Following the Separation, Yum China became, and continues to be, our largest franchisee. Our financial results are significantly affected by Yum China’s results as we are entitled to receive a 3% sales-based royalty on all Yum China system sales related to our Concepts.

In addition to Yum China, we have other significant relationships on which our success is dependent, including our strategic alliance with Telepizza Group S.A., which is the master franchisee of Pizza Hut in Latin America (excluding Brazil) and portions of Europe, and our relationship with certain large franchisees, such as Flynn Restaurant Group, an existing YUM franchisee which recently announced its intention to acquire approximately 950 Pizza Hut U.S. restaurants which would make it the largest operator of Pizza Hut restaurants in the U.S. Any failure to realize the expected benefits of such franchise relationships may adversely impact our business and operating results.

We may not achieve our target development goals, including as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and new restaurants may not be profitable.

Our growth strategy depends on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to increase the number of restaurants around the world. However, we had fewer net restaurant openings and greater permanent restaurant closures during 2020 compared to our recent history and expectations as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we experienced higher closures in the Pizza Hut system during 2020 as a result of our previously announced efforts to accelerate the transformation of the Pizza Hut restaurant estate to a more modern and delivery-based business and other business model pressures impacting certain Pizza Hut restaurants. The successful development of new units depends in large part on the ability of our Concepts’ franchisees to open new restaurants and to operate these restaurants profitably. Effectively managing growth can be challenging, particularly as we expand into new markets internationally, and we cannot guarantee that we, or our Concepts’ franchisees, including Yum China, will be able to achieve our expansion goals or that new restaurants will be operated profitably. Further, there is no assurance that any new restaurant will produce operating results similar to those of our existing restaurants. Other risks that could impact our ability to increase the number of our restaurants include prevailing economic conditions and trade or economic policies or sanctions, our ability to attract new franchisees, construction and development costs of new restaurants, and our, or our Concepts’ franchisees’, ability to obtain suitable restaurant locations, negotiate acceptable lease or purchase terms for the locations, obtain required permits and approvals in a timely manner, hire and train qualified management teams and restaurant crews, and meet construction schedules.

Expansion into markets could also be affected by our Concepts’ franchisees’ willingness to invest capital or ability to obtain financing to construct and open new restaurants. If it becomes more difficult or more expensive for our Concepts’ franchisees to obtain financing to develop new restaurants, or if the perceived return on invested capital is not sufficiently attractive, the expected growth of our system could slow and our future revenues and operating cash flows could be adversely impacted.

In addition, the development of new restaurants could impact the sales of our Concepts’ existing restaurants nearby. There can be no assurance that sales cannibalization will not occur or become more significant in the future as we increase our presence in existing markets.

We may not realize the anticipated benefits from past or potential future acquisitions, investments or other strategic transactions.

From time to time we evaluate and may complete mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, strategic partnerships, minority investments (which may include minority investments in third parties, such as franchisees or master franchisees) and other strategic transactions, including our acquisition of The Habit Restaurants, Inc. completed in March 2020, our strategic
12

alliance with Telepizza Group S.A. effectuated in December 2018, and our acquisition of QuikOrder, LLC completed in December 2018.


13

Past and potential future strategic transactions may involve various inherent risks, including, without limitation:

•expenses, delays or difficulties in integrating acquired companies, joint venture operations, strategic partnerships or investments into our organization, including the failure to realize expected synergies and/or the inability to retain key personnel;

•diversion of management’s attention from other initiatives and/or day-to-day operations to effectively execute our growth strategy;

•inability to generate sufficient revenue, profit, and cash flow from acquired companies, joint ventures, strategic partnerships or investments;

•the possibility that we have acquired substantial contingent or unanticipated liabilities in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions; and

•the possibility that investments we have made may decline significantly in value, which could lead to the potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill associated with acquired businesses.

Past and potential future strategic transactions may not ultimately create value for us and may harm our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Risks Related to Operating a Global Business

We have significant exposure to the Chinese market through our largest franchisee, Yum China, which subjects us to risks that could negatively affect our business.

A significant portion of our total business is conducted in mainland China, particularly with respect to our KFC Concept. Yum China’s business is exposed to risks in mainland China, which include, among others, potential political, financial or social instability, changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), consumer preferences, the regulatory environment (including uncertainties with respect to the interpretation and enforcement of Chinese laws, rules and regulations), the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and related Chinese governmental restrictions. Further, any significant or prolonged deterioration in U.S.–China relations, including as the result of current U.S.–China tensions, could adversely affect our Concepts in mainland China. Chinese law regulates Yum China’s business conducted within mainland China. Our royalty income from the Yum China business is therefore subject to numerous uncertainties based on the policies of the Chinese government, as they may change from time to time. If Yum China’s business is harmed or development of our Concepts’ restaurants is slowed in mainland China due to any of these factors, it could negatively impact the royalty paid by Yum China to us, which would negatively impact our financial results or our growth prospects.

Our relationship with Yum China is governed primarily by a Master License Agreement, which may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the insolvency or bankruptcy of Yum China. In addition, if we are unable to enforce our intellectual property or contract rights in mainland China, if Yum China is unable or unwilling to satisfy its obligations under the Master License Agreement, or if the Master License Agreement is otherwise terminated, it could result in an interruption in the operation of our brands that have been exclusively licensed to Yum China for use in mainland China. Such interruption could cause a delay in, or loss of, royalty income to us, which would negatively impact our financial results.

Our international operations subject us to risks that could negatively affect our business.

A significant portion of our Concepts’ restaurants are operated in countries and territories outside of the U.S., including in emerging markets, and we intend to continue expansion of our international operations. As a result, our business and the businesses of our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly exposed to risks inherent in international operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by country, include political, financial or social instability or conditions, geopolitical events, corruption, anti-American sentiment, social and ethnic unrest, and terrorism, as well as changes in economic conditions (including consumer spending, unemployment levels and wage and commodity inflation), the regulatory environment (including the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of legal requirements and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights), income and non-income based tax rates and laws, the impact of import restrictions or controls, sanctions, foreign exchange control regimes (including restrictions on currency conversion), natural disasters, the impact of labor costs and conditions, consumer preferences and the laws and policies that govern foreign investment in countries where our Concepts’ restaurants are operated. For example, we have been subject to a regulatory enforcement action in India alleging violation of foreign exchange laws for failure to satisfy conditions of certain operating approvals, such as minimum investment and store build requirements
14

as well as limitations on the remittance of fees outside of the country (See Note 20). In addition, we and our franchisees do business in jurisdictions that may be subject to trade or economic sanction regimes and such sanctions could be expanded. Any failure to comply with such sanction regimes or other similar laws or regulations could result in the assessment of damages, the imposition of penalties, suspension of business licenses, or a cessation of operations at our or our franchisees’ businesses, as well as damage to our and our Concepts’ brands’ images and reputations, all of which could harm our profitability and growth prospects.

Foreign currency risks and foreign exchange controls could adversely affect our financial results.

Our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may adversely affect reported earnings. More specifically, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies, such as the Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”), Australian Dollar, the British Pound and the Euro, as well as currencies in certain other markets, such as the Malaysian Ringgit and Russian Ruble, could have an adverse effect on our reported earnings. Any significant fluctuation in the value of currencies of countries in which we or our franchisees operate, and in particular RMB in China, could materially impact the U.S. dollar value of royalty payments made to us, which could result in lower revenues. There can be no assurance as to the future effect of any such changes on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. In addition, the governments in certain countries where our Concepts operate, including China, restrict the conversion of local currency into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the country. Restrictions on the conversion of RMB to U.S. dollars or further restrictions on the remittance of currency out of China could result in delays in the remittance of Yum China’s royalty, which could impact our liquidity.

Risks Related to Technology, Data Privacy and Intellectual Property

Failure to protect the integrity and security of personal information of our customers and employees could result in substantial costs, expose us to litigation and damage our reputation.

We receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our customers, employees, vendors and franchisees. In addition, our vendors and/or franchisees receive and maintain certain personal, financial and other information about our employees and customers. The use and handling, including security, of this information is regulated by evolving and increasingly demanding laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, as well as by certain third-party contracts and industry standards. We have experienced cyber- attacks and security breaches from time to time. The number and frequency of these cyber-attacks and/or security breaches varies between periods but could be exacerbated by an increase in the use of our digital commerce platforms. If our security and information systems are compromised as a result of data corruption or loss, cyber-attack or a network security incident, or if our employees, franchisees or vendors fail to comply with these laws and regulations or fail to meet industry standards and this information is obtained by unauthorized persons or used inappropriately, it could result in liabilities and penalties and could damage our reputation, cause interruption of normal business performance, cause us to incur substantial costs and result in a loss of customer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation and government enforcement actions as a result of any such failure.

Further, data privacy is subject to frequently changing rules and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries where we, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees do business. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which was adopted by the European Union effective May 2018, requires companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and is subject to changing requirements, which could increase Company and franchisee resources necessary to comply. In addition, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (the “CCPA”), which became effective January 2020, requiring companies that process information on California residents to, among other things, provide new disclosures and options to consumers about data collection, use and sharing practices. Further, the CCPA has been subject to revision and amendments, including significant modifications made by the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), which was recently approved by California voters as a ballot initiative in November 2020 and will take effect January 1, 2022. The updates and modifications to the CCPA, as well as requirements under the GDPR may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses to comply. Moreover, each of the GDPR and the CCPA confer a private right-of-action on certain individuals and associations. Our failure or the failure of our franchisees to adhere to or successfully implement appropriate processes to adhere to the requirements of GDPR, CCPA and other evolving laws and regulations in this area could result in financial penalties, legal liability and could damage our and our Concepts’ brands’ reputations.

In addition, several other states have introduced or passed similar legislation to the CCPA and CPRA which may impose varying standards and requirements on our data collection, use and processing activities. The Federal Trade Commission and many state attorneys general are also interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of data. Furthermore, various international jurisdictions, where our Concepts have operations, have significantly strengthened their data privacy laws, rules and regulations. If more restrictive or inconsistent
15

legal requirements are adopted by international, state and/or federal authorities in the future and/or regulators’ enforcement priorities shift, compliance costs and potential liability could increase for the Company and our Concepts’ franchisees, which could cause reputational harm and have an adverse effect on our business.

Unreliable or inefficient restaurant or consumer-facing technology or the failure to successfully implement technology initiatives in the future could adversely impact operating results and the overall consumer experience.

We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely heavily on information technology systems in the conduct of our business, some of which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties, including, for example, point-of-sale processing in our restaurants, management of our supply chain, and various other processes and procedures. These systems are subject to damage, interruption or failure due to theft, fire, power outages, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, security breaches, malicious cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events. Certain technology systems may also be unreliable or inefficient, and technology vendors may limit or terminate product support and maintenance, which could impact the reliability of critical systems’ operations. If our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ information technology systems are damaged or fail to function properly, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to manage inventories or process transactions, which could result in lost sales, customer or employee dissatisfaction, or negative publicity that could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations and financial condition.

We and our Concepts’ franchisees rely on technology not only to efficiently operate our restaurants but also to drive the customer experience, sales growth and margin improvement. Our continued growth will be dependent on our initiatives to implement proprietary and third-party technology solutions and gather and leverage data to enhance restaurant operations and improve the customer experience. It may be difficult to recruit and retain qualified individuals for these efforts due to intense competition for qualified technology systems’ developers necessary to innovate, develop and implement new technologies for our growth initiatives, including increasing our digital relationship with customers. Our strategic technology initiatives may not be implemented in a timely manner or may not achieve the desired results. Even if we effectively implement and manage our technology initiatives, there is no guarantee that this will result in sales growth or margin improvement. Additionally, developing and implementing the evolving technology demands of the consumer may place a significant financial burden on us and our Concepts’ franchisees, and our Concepts' franchisees may have differing views on investment priorities. Moreover, our failure to adequately invest in new technology or adapt to technological advancements and industry trends, particularly with respect to digital commerce capabilities, could result in a loss of customers and related market share. If our Concepts’ digital commerce platforms do not meet customers’ expectations in terms of security, speed, attractiveness or ease of use, customers may be less inclined to return to such digital commerce platforms, which could negatively impact our business.

There are risks associated with our increasing dependence on digital commerce platforms to maintain and grow sales. Such platforms may experience disruptions, which could harm our ability to compete and conduct our business.

Customers are increasingly using e-commerce websites and apps, both domestically and internationally, such as pizzahut.com, Pizza Hut, KFC, Taco Bell and The Habit Burger Grill apps, as well as apps owned by third-party delivery aggregators and third-party mobile payment processors, to order and pay for our Concepts’ products. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in an increase in the use of store-level or third-party delivery services by our Concepts, and many restaurants in each of our Concepts now offer consumers the ability to have the Concept’s food delivered through third-party delivery services. As a result, our Concepts and our Concepts’ franchisees are increasingly reliant on digital ordering and payment as a sales channel. These digital ordering and payment platforms could be damaged or interrupted by power loss, technological failures, user errors, cyber-attacks, other forms of sabotage, inclement weather or natural disasters. The digital ordering platforms relied upon by our Concepts have experienced interruptions and could experience further interruptions, which could limit or delay customers’ ability to order through such platforms or make customers less inclined to return to such platforms. The rapid acceleration in growth of digital sales has placed additional stress on those platforms that are more reliant upon legacy technology, such as certain platforms used by Pizza Hut, which may result in more frequent and potentially more severe interruptions. Moreover, our reliance on multiple digital commerce platforms to support our global footprint, multiple Concepts and highly franchised business model could increase our vulnerability to cyber-attacks and/or security breaches and could necessitate additional expenditures as we endeavor to consolidate and standardize such platforms.

Yum China, our largest franchisee, utilizes third-party mobile payment apps such as Alipay and WeChat as a means through which to generate sales and process payments. Should customers become unable to access mobile payment apps in China or should the relationship between Yum China and one or more third-party mobile payment processors become interrupted, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. In particular, political tensions between the U.S. and China escalated in 2020, with a number of actions taken by the U.S. government, such as the Clean Network program announced on August 5, 2020, to protect U.S. telecommunication and technology infrastructure, and two executive orders issued by President Trump on August 6, 2020, to ban, within 45 days of such date, any person or property subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. from any transaction related to WeChat, to the extent that any such transaction is identified by the Secretary of Commerce as being subject to the prohibitions stated in the executive orders. While the directives issued by the Secretary of Commerce arising from
16

the executive orders only identified prohibited transactions that are limited to the territory of the U.S. and therefore are not expected to impact Yum China's operations in China, we cannot foresee whether and how similar or additional policy actions taken by the U.S. or Chinese governments will impact our business and financial performance. If Yum China’s ability to use WeChat or other third-party mobile payment apps in its operations is restricted, its business, operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which could have a negative impact on the royalty paid to us.

Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business.

In recent years, there has been a marked increase in the use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of Internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons. The rising popularity of social media and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination and given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. Information posted on such platforms at any time may be adverse to our interests and/or may be inaccurate. The dissemination of information online could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the information’s accuracy. The damage may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.

In addition, social media is frequently used by our Concepts to communicate with their respective customers and the public in general. Failure by our Concepts to use social media effectively or appropriately, particularly as compared to our Concepts’ respective competitors, could lead to a decline in brand value, customer visits and revenue. In addition, laws and regulations, including Federal Trade Commission enforcement, are rapidly evolving to govern social media platforms and communications. A failure of us, our employees, our franchisees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of social media could adversely impact our Concepts’ brands, our reputation and our business, or subject us or our franchisees to fines or other penalties. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, negative comments about our Concepts’ brands, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. The inappropriate use of social media by our customers or employees could increase our costs, lead to litigation or result in negative publicity that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations.

Failure to protect our service marks or other intellectual property could harm our Concepts’ Brands and overall business.

We regard our registered service marks (e.g., Yum®, KFC®, Pizza Hut®, Taco Bell®, and The Habit®), and other service marks and trademarks related to our restaurant businesses, as having significant value and being important to our marketing efforts. Our service marks and trademarks create brand awareness and help build goodwill among our customers. Thus, we rely on a combination of legal protections provided by contracts, copyrights, patents, trademarks, service marks and other common law rights, such as trade secret and unfair competition laws, to protect our restaurants and services from potential infringement. Many of our trademarks and service marks are registered in the U.S. and/or foreign jurisdictions. However, from time to time we become aware of names and marks identical or confusingly similar to our service marks being used by other persons or companies. Although our policy is to oppose any such infringement, further or unknown unauthorized uses or other misappropriation of our trademarks or service marks could diminish the value of our Concepts’ brands and adversely affect our business and goodwill. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our Concepts have, or may in the future open or franchise, a restaurant and the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property or the legal protections which may be available will be adequate, and defending or enforcing our trademarks, service marks and other intellectual property could result in the expenditure of significant resources or result in significant harm to our business, reputation, financial condition, and overall operations. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with the use of the proprietary know-how, recipes, or trade secrets used in our business. Defending against such claims is costly, and we may be prohibited from using such proprietary information in the future or forced to pay damages, royalties, or other fees for using such proprietary information, any of which could negatively affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations.

Risks Related to Our Supply Chain and Employment

Shortages or interruptions in the availability and delivery of food and other supplies may increase costs or reduce revenues.

The products sold by our Concepts and their franchisees are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers although certain products have limited suppliers, which increases our reliance on those suppliers. We, along with our Concepts’ franchisees, are also dependent upon third parties to make frequent deliveries of food products and supplies that meet our specifications at competitive prices. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of food items and other supplies to our
17

Concepts’ restaurants have happened from time to time and could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of items we use and the operations of our restaurants, which in turn could lead to restaurant closures and/or a decrease in sales. Future shortages or disruptions could be caused by inclement weather, natural disasters, pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), inaccurate forecasting of customer demand, problems in production or distribution, restrictions on imports or exports including due to trade disputes or restrictions, the inability of vendors to obtain credit, political instability in the countries in which the suppliers and distributors are located, the financial instability of suppliers and distributors, suppliers’ or distributors’ failure to meet our standards or requirements, transitioning to new suppliers or distributors, product quality issues, inflation, other factors relating to the suppliers and distributors and the countries in which they are located, food safety warnings or advisories or the prospect of such pronouncements, product recalls, the cancellation of supply or distribution agreements or an inability to renew such arrangements or to find replacements on commercially reasonable terms, or other conditions beyond our control or the control of our Concepts’ franchisees.

In addition, in the U.S., the Company and the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell franchisee groups are members of Restaurant Supply Chain Solutions, LLC (“RSCS”), which is a third-party responsible for purchasing certain restaurant products and equipment. The Habit Burger Grill entered into a purchasing agreement with RSCS in 2020. McLane Foodservice, Inc. (“McLane”) serves as the largest distributor for the Company’s KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Concepts in the U.S. Any failure or inability of our significant suppliers or distributors, including RSCS or McLane to meet their respective service requirements, could result in shortages or interruptions in the availability of food and other supplies.

The loss of key personnel, labor shortages or difficulty finding qualified employees could slow our growth, harm our business and reduce our profitability.

Much of our future success depends on the continued availability and service of senior management personnel. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key senior management personnel could harm our business.

In addition, our restaurant operations are highly service-oriented and our success depends in part upon our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified employees, including franchisee management, restaurant managers and other crew members. The market for qualified employees in the retail food industry is very competitive. Our and our Concepts’ franchisees may experience a shortage of labor for positions in our restaurants, including due to concern over exposure to COVID-19 and other factors that could decrease the pool of available qualified employees for key functions.

Any future inability to recruit and retain qualified individuals may delay our planned use, development or deployment of technology or the planned openings of new restaurants by us and our Concepts’ franchisees which could have a material adverse impact on the operation of our Concepts’ existing restaurants. In addition, strikes, work slowdowns or other job actions may become more common. In the event of a strike, work slowdown or other labor unrest, the ability to adequately staff our Concepts’ restaurants could be impaired, which could result in reduced revenue and customer claims, and may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities.

Changes in labor and other operating costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees’ results of operations.

An increase in the costs of employee wages, benefits and insurance (including workers’ compensation, general liability, property and health) as well as other operating costs such as rent and energy costs could adversely affect our and our franchisees’ operating results. Such increases in costs could result from general economic or competitive conditions or from government imposition of higher minimum wages at the federal, state or local level, including the potential increase in the federal minimum wage in the U.S. proposed by the new presidential administration. Moreover, there may be a long-term trend toward higher wages in developing markets. Any increase in such operating expenses could adversely affect our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins. In addition, competition for qualified employees could compel us or our Concepts’ franchisees to pay higher wages to attract or retain key crew members, which could result in higher labor costs and decreased profitability.

An increase in food prices may have an adverse impact on our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ profit margins.

Our and our Concepts’ franchisees’ businesses depend on reliable sources of large quantities of raw materials such as proteins (including poultry, pork, beef and seafood), cheese, oil, flour and vegetables (including potatoes and lettuce). Raw materials purchased for use in our Concepts’ restaurants are subject to price volatility caused by any fluctuation in aggregate supply and demand, or other external conditions, such as weather conditions, or natural events or disasters that affect expected harvests of such raw materials, taxes and tariffs (including as a result of trade disputes), industry demand, food safety concerns, product recalls, governmental regulation and other factors, all of which are beyond our control and in many instances are unpredictable. As a result, the historical prices of raw materials used in the operation of our Concepts’ restaurants have fluctuated. We cannot assure that we or our Concepts’ franchisees will continue to be able to purchase raw materials at reasonable prices, or that the
18

cost of raw materials will remain stable in the future. In addition, a significant increase in gasoline prices could result in the imposition of fuel surcharges by our distributors.

Because we and our Concepts’ franchisees provide competitively priced food, we may not have the ability to pass through to our customers the full amount of any commodity price increases. If we and our Concepts’ franchisees are unable to manage the cost of raw materials or to increase the prices of products proportionately, our and our franchisees’ profit margins and return on invested capital may be adversely impacted.

Risks Related to our Concepts’ Brands and Reputation

Our Concepts’ brands may be harmed or diluted through franchisee and third-party activity.

Although we monitor and regulate franchisee activities through our Concepts’ franchise agreements, franchisees or other third parties may refer to or make statements about our Concepts’ brands that do not make proper use of our trademarks or required designations, that improperly alter trademarks or branding, or that are critical of our Concepts’ brands or place our Concepts’ brands in a context that may tarnish their reputation. This may result in dilution of, or harm to, our intellectual property or the value of our Concepts’ brands.

Franchisee noncompliance with the terms and conditions of our franchise agreements may reduce the overall goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, whether through the failure to meet health and safety standards (including with respect to additional sanitation protocols and guidelines in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic), engage in quality control or maintain product consistency, or through the participation in improper or objectionable business practices. Moreover, unauthorized third parties, including our Concepts’ current and former franchisees, may use our intellectual property to trade on the goodwill of our Concepts’ brands, resulting in consumer confusion or brand dilution. Any reduction of our Concepts’ brands’ goodwill, consumer confusion, or brand dilution is likely to impact sales, and could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations.

Our success depends substantially on our corporate reputation and on the value and perception of our brands.

Our success depends in large part upon our ability and our Concepts’ franchisees’ ability to maintain and enhance our corporate reputation and the value and perception of our brands. Brand value is based in part on consumer perceptions on a variety of subjective qualities. Those perceptions are affected by a variety of factors, including the nutritional content and preparation of our food, the ingredients we use, and the manner in which we source the commodities we use. Consumer acceptance of our offerings is subject to change for a variety of reasons, and some changes can occur rapidly. For example, nutritional, health and other scientific studies and conclusions, which constantly evolve and may have contradictory implications, drive popular opinion, litigation and regulation (including initiatives intended to drive consumer behavior) in ways that may affect perceptions of our Concepts’ brands generally or relative to available alternatives. In addition, the restaurant industry globally has been subject to claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects. Publicity about these matters (particularly directed at the quick service and fast-casual segments of the retail food industry) may harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our business. Moreover, these types of claims could lead to an increase in the regulation of the content or marketing of our products, including legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods, foods with high sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be “unhealthy,” which could in turn increase costs of compliance and remediation to us and our franchisees.

In addition, business or other incidents, whether isolated or recurring, and whether originating from us, our Concepts’ restaurants, franchisees, competitors, governments, suppliers or distributors, can significantly reduce brand value and consumer perception, particularly if the incidents receive considerable publicity or result in litigation or investigations. Moreover, our success depends in large part upon our ability to maintain our corporate reputation. For example, the reputation of our Concepts’ brands could be damaged by claims or perceptions about the quality or safety of our products or the quality or reputation of our suppliers, distributors or franchisees or by claims or perceptions that we, founders of our Concepts, our Concepts’ franchisees or other business partners have acted or are acting in an unethical, illegal, racially-biased or socially irresponsible manner or are not fostering an inclusive and diverse environment, regardless of whether such claims or perceptions are true. Our corporate reputation could also suffer from negative publicity or consumer sentiment regarding Company action or brand imagery, a real or perceived failure of corporate governance, or misconduct by any Company officer or any employee or representative of us or a franchisee. For example, entities in our supply chain may engage in conduct, including alleged human rights abuses or environmental wrongdoing, and any such conduct could damage our or our Concepts’ brands’ reputations. Any such incidents (even if resulting from actions of a competitor or franchisee) could cause a decline directly or indirectly in consumer confidence in, or the perception of, our Concepts’ brands and/or our products and reduce consumer demand for our products, which would likely result in lower revenues and profits.

19

There has been an increased public focus, including from U.S. and foreign governmental and nongovernmental authorities, on environmental sustainability matters, including with respect to climate change, greenhouse gases, water resources, packaging and waste, animal health and welfare, deforestation and land use. We endeavor to conduct our business in a manner which reflects our priority of sustainable stewardship, including with respect to environmental sustainability matters, and we are working to manage the risks and costs to us, our franchisees and our supply chain associated with these types of environmental sustainability matters. In addition, as the result of such heightened public focus on environmental sustainability matters, we may face increased pressure to provide expanded disclosure, make or expand commitments, set targets, or establish additional goals and take actions to meet such goals, in connection with such environmental sustainability matters. These matters and our efforts to address them could expose us to market, operational, reputational and execution costs or risks.

Risks Related to Government Regulation and Litigation

We could be party to litigation that could adversely affect us by increasing our expenses, diverting management attention or subjecting us to significant monetary damages and other remedies.

We are regularly involved in legal proceedings, which include regulatory claims or disputes, consumer, personal injury, claims from franchisees employment, real estate related, tort, intellectual property, breach of contract, securities, derivative and other litigation. See the discussion of legal proceedings in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and these types of lawsuits are subject to inherent uncertainties (some of which are beyond the Company’s control). Unfavorable rulings or developments may also occur. In addition, the restaurant industry globally has been subject to claims that relate to the nutritional content of food products, as well as claims that the menus and practices of restaurant chains have led to customer health issues, including weight gain and other adverse effects, and we may become subject to such claims in the future. Moreover, regardless of whether any such lawsuits have merit, or whether we are ultimately held liable or settle, such litigation may be expensive to defend, may divert resources and management attention away from our operations, and may negatively impact our results of operations. With respect to insured claims, a judgment for monetary damages in excess of any insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Any adverse publicity resulting from these allegations may also adversely affect our Concepts’ reputations, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations.

Changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations may adversely affect our business operations, growth prospects or financial condition.

The Company, and our Concepts and their franchisees, are subject to numerous laws and regulations around the world. These laws and regulations change regularly and are increasingly complex. For example, we are subject to:

•The Americans with Disabilities Act in the U.S. and similar state laws that provide protection to individuals with disabilities in the context of employment, public accommodations and other areas.
•The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, which governs matters such as minimum wages, and overtime, and the Family and Medical Leave Act as well as a variety of similar state laws which provide protected leave rights to employees.
•Federal and state employment laws related to workplace health and safety, non-discrimination, non-harassment, whistleblower protections, and other terms and conditions of employment.
•Laws and regulations in government-mandated health care benefits such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in the U.S.
•Laws and regulations relating to nutritional content, nutritional labeling, product safety, product marketing and menu labeling.
•Uncertainties and effects of laws and regulations associated with the implementation of the UK’s withdrawal of membership from the European Union (referred to as “Brexit”), including those relating to tax and trade.
•Laws relating to state and local licensing.
•Laws relating to the relationship between franchisors and franchisees.
•Laws and regulations relating to health, sanitation, food, workplace safety, child labor, including laws regulating the use of certain “hazardous equipment”, building and zoning, and fire safety and prevention.
•Laws and regulations relating to union organizing rights and activities, such as the proposed Protecting the Right to Organize Act (the “PRO Act”) in the U.S.
•Laws relating to information security, privacy (including the European Union’s GDPR and California’s CCPA and CPRA), cashless payments, and consumer protection.
•Laws relating to currency conversion or exchange.
•Laws relating to international trade and sanctions.
•Tax laws and regulations.
•Anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws.
•Environmental laws and regulations, including with respect to climate change.
•Federal and state immigration laws and regulations in the U.S.
20

•Regulations, health guidelines and safety protocols related to the COVID-19 pandemic.

Compliance with new or existing laws and regulations could impact our or our Concepts’ franchisees’ operations. The compliance costs associated with these laws and regulations could be substantial. In addition, if any governmental authority were to adopt and implement a broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under laws such as the National Labor Relations Act in a manner that is applied generally to franchise relationships (which broader standards in the past have been adopted by U.S. governmental agencies such as the National Labor Relations Board), this could cause us or our Concepts to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations and could subject our Concepts to other liabilities, and/or require our Concepts to conduct collective bargaining negotiations, regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our Concepts’ franchisees. Further, a California law enacted in 2019 adopted an employment classification test to be used when determining employee or independent contractor status which establishes a high threshold to obtain independent contractor status. The proposed federal PRO Act under review by Congress in the U.S. could have similar effects in addition to weakening state “right to work” laws, which could result in increased labor disputes and costs borne by our franchisees and us. These laws and any similar laws enacted at the federal, state or local level, could increase our and our franchisees’ labor costs and decrease profitability or could cause employees of our franchisees to be deemed employees of our Concepts.

Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could adversely affect our reputation, international expansion efforts, growth prospects and financial results or result in, among other things, litigation, revocation of required licenses, internal investigations, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil and criminal liability. Publicity relating to any such noncompliance could also harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our revenues.

Failure to comply with anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business operations.

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and other similar applicable laws prohibiting bribery of government officials and other corrupt practices are the subject of increasing emphasis and enforcement around the world. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, agents, franchisees or other third parties will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, particularly as we expand our operations in emerging markets and elsewhere. Any such violations or suspected violations could subject us to civil or criminal penalties, including substantial fines and significant investigation costs, and could also materially damage our reputation, brands, international expansion efforts and growth prospects, business and operating results. Publicity relating to any noncompliance or alleged noncompliance could also harm our Concepts’ reputations and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations.

Tax matters, including changes in tax rates or laws, disagreements with taxing authorities, imposition of new taxes and our restructurings could impact our results of operations and financial condition.

We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, withholding and franchise taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. We are also subject to ongoing and/or regular reviews, examinations and audits by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and other taxing authorities with respect to such income and non-income based taxes inside and outside of the U.S. Our accruals for tax liabilities are based on past experience, interpretations of applicable law, and judgments about potential actions by tax authorities, but such accruals require significant judgment which may be incorrect and may result in payments greater than the amounts accrued. If the IRS or another taxing authority disagrees with our tax positions, we could face additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties. Payment of additional amounts upon final settlement or adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position.

In addition, we are directly and indirectly affected by new tax laws and regulation and the interpretation of tax laws and regulations worldwide. Changes in laws, regulation or interpretation of existing laws and regulations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation could increase our taxes and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws or regulations may arise as a result of tax policies proposed by the recently elected U.S. presidential administration. Changes in tax laws may also arise as a result of tax policy guidance issued by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), a coalition of member nations including the United States. The OECD guidance, referred to as the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) Action Plan, does not have the force of law, but certain countries may enact tax legislation, modify tax treaties, and/or increase audit scrutiny based on the BEPS guidance. To the extent BEPS principles are adopted by major jurisdictions in which we or our Concepts operate, it could increase our taxes and have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. We have in the past and may in the future adapt our entity and operating structure in response to and in compliance with changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretation of existing laws and regulations. Such restructurings could result in material incremental tax costs associated with restructuring transactions or operations of the structure. In addition, public perception that we are not paying a sufficient amount of taxes could damage our Concepts’ reputations, which could harm our profitability.
21

Risks Related to the Yum China Spin-Off

The Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions could result in substantial U.S. tax liability.

We received opinions of outside counsel substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Yum China spin-off and certain related transactions qualified as generally tax-free under Sections 355 and 361 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. The opinions relied on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations as to factual matters and undertakings (including with respect to future conduct) made by Yum China and us. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we may not be able to rely on these opinions of outside counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the opinions of outside counsel, the conclusions reached in the tax opinions may be challenged by the IRS. Because the opinions are not binding on the IRS or the courts, there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not prevail in any such challenge.

If, notwithstanding receipt of any opinion, the IRS were to conclude that the Yum China spin-off was taxable, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the Yum China common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value. In addition, each U.S. holder of our Common Stock who received shares of Yum China common stock in connection with the spin-off transaction would generally be treated as having received a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of Yum China common stock received. That distribution would be taxable to each such U.S. stockholder as a dividend to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. For each such U.S. stockholder, any amount that exceeded our earnings and profits would be treated first as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such stockholder’s tax basis in our shares of Common Stock with any remaining amount being taxed as a capital gain.

The Yum China spin-off may be subject to China indirect transfer tax.

In February 2015, the Chinese State Administration of Taxation (“SAT”) issued the Bulletin on Several Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Income Arising from Indirect Transfers of Property by Non-resident Enterprises (“Bulletin 7”). Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an “indirect transfer” of Chinese taxable assets, including equity interests in a China resident enterprise (“Chinese interests”), by a non-resident enterprise, may be recharacterized and treated as a direct transfer of Chinese taxable assets, if such arrangement does not have reasonable commercial purpose and the transferor has avoided payment of Chinese enterprise income tax. Using general anti-tax avoidance provisions, the SAT may treat an indirect transfer as a direct transfer of Chinese interests if the transfer has avoided Chinese tax by way of an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to Chinese enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer would be obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10% of the capital gain in the case of an indirect transfer of equity interests in a China resident enterprise.

We evaluated the potential applicability of Bulletin 7 in connection with the Separation in the form of a tax free restructuring and believe it is more likely than not that Bulletin 7 does not apply. We believe that the restructuring has reasonable commercial purpose.

However, there are significant uncertainties regarding what constitutes a reasonable commercial purpose, how the safe harbor provisions for group restructurings are to be interpreted and how the Chinese tax authorities will ultimately view the spin-off. As a result, our position could be challenged by the Chinese tax authorities resulting in a tax at a rate of 10% assessed on the difference between the fair market value and the tax basis of Yum China. As our tax basis in Yum China was minimal, the amount of such a tax could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our financial condition.

Risks Related to Consumer Discretionary Spending and Macroeconomic Conditions

Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in consumer discretionary spending and economic conditions in the U.S. and international markets.

As a restaurant company dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, we (and our franchisees) are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty regarding macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and in other regions of the world where our Concepts and Concepts’ franchisees operate. Some of the factors that impact discretionary consumer spending include unemployment and underemployment rates, fluctuations in the level of disposable income, the price of gasoline and other inflationary pressures, stock market performance and changes in the level of consumer confidence. These and other macroeconomic factors could have an adverse effect on our or our franchisees’ sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. In this regard, we and our franchisees have been adversely impacted by, and may continue to be adversely impacted by, ongoing negative macroeconomic conditions in the U.S. and other regions of the world where our Concepts and Concepts’ franchisees operate arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, including elevated unemployment and underemployment levels, and decreased consumer spending and consumer confidence, In addition, our business in the U.S. and
22

international regions could be adversely impacted by various factors (which may be beyond our control), including natural disasters, geopolitical events, terrorism, political, financial or social instability, terrorism, boycott, social unrest, or other events that lead to avoidance of public places or restrictions on public gatherings such as in our and our franchisees’ restaurants.

Risks Related to Competition

The retail food industry is highly competitive.

Our Concepts’ restaurants compete with international, national and regional restaurant chains as well as locally-owned restaurants, and the retail food industry in which our Concepts operate is highly competitive with respect to price and quality of food products, new product development, digital engagement, advertising levels and promotional initiatives (including the frequent use by our competitors of price discounting, such as through value meal menu options, coupons and other methods), customer service, reputation, restaurant location, and attractiveness and maintenance of properties. In addition, our Concepts compete within the retail food industry for management and hourly personnel, suitable real estate sites, and qualified franchisees. If consumer or dietary preferences change, if our marketing efforts and/or launch of new products are unsuccessful, or if our Concepts’ restaurants are unable to compete successfully with other retail food outlets in new and existing markets, our and our franchisees’ businesses could be adversely affected. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a disruption of consumer routines, the implementation of employer “work-from-home” policies, reduced business and recreational travel and changes in consumer behavior, and it is difficult to fully assess the impacts of such developments on us or our Concepts, or the extent to which any such consumer patterns may continue after the COVID-19 pandemic has ended. We also face growing competition as a result of convergence in grocery, convenience, deli and restaurant services, including the offering by the grocery industry of convenient meals, including pizzas and entrees with side dishes. Competition from delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has increased in recent years, particularly in urbanized areas, and this trend, which has accelerated following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, is expected to continue to increase. Increased competition could have an adverse effect on sales, profitability or development plans, which could harm our or our franchisees’ financial condition and operating results.

Risks Related to Our Indebtedness

Our substantial indebtedness makes us more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, may limit our ability to plan for or respond to significant changes in our business, and requires a significant amount of cash to service our debt payment obligations that we may be unable to generate or obtain.

As of December 31, 2020, our total outstanding short-term borrowings and long-term debt was approximately $10.8 billion. Subject to the limits contained in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we may incur additional debt from time to time, which would increase the risks related to our high level of indebtedness.

Specifically, our high level of indebtedness could have important potential consequences, including, but not limited to:

•increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to plan for and respond to, adverse economic and industry conditions and changes in our business and the competitive environment, including ongoing adverse economic conditions arising from the COVID-19 pandemic;
•requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of such cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, dividends, share repurchases or other corporate purposes;
•increasing our vulnerability to a downgrade of our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity and access to capital markets;
•restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures;
•placing us at a disadvantage compared to other less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates;
•increasing our exposure to the risk of increased interest rates insofar as current and future borrowings are subject to variable rates of interest;
•increasing our exposure to the risk of discontinuance, replacement or modification of certain reference rates, including as the result of the upcoming discontinuance of LIBOR, which are used to calculate applicable interest rates of our indebtedness and certain derivative instruments that hedge interest rate risk;
•making it more difficult for us to repay, refinance or satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt;
•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds in the future and increasing the cost of any such borrowing;
•imposing restrictive covenants on our operations as the result of the terms of our indebtedness, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default, which in turn, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of the applicable debt, and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies; and
23

•increasing our exposure to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and our debt is primarily denominated in U.S. dollars.

There is no assurance that we will generate cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. If conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic result in significant disruptions to capital and financial markets, our cost of borrowing, our ability to access capital on favorable terms and our overall liquidity could be adversely impacted. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition.
