PART I
References in this document to “the Company,” “we,” “us,” or “our” refer to Zebra Technologies Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the context specifically indicates otherwise.
Safe Harbor
Forward-looking statements contained in this filing are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and are highly dependent upon a variety of important factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements. When used in this document and documents referenced, the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate,” “will,” and “expect” and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or its management are intended to identify such forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying these statements. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the Company’s financial outlook for the first quarter and full year of 2021. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions, and are subject to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the Company’s industry, market conditions, general domestic and international economic conditions, and other factors. These factors include:
 
•Market acceptance of the Company’s products and solution offerings and competitors’ offerings and the potential effects of technological changes,
•The effect of global market conditions, including the North America; Europe, Middle East, and Africa; Latin America; and Asia-Pacific regions in which we do business,
•The impact of foreign exchange rates due to the large percentage of our sales and operations being outside the United States (“U.S.”),
•Our ability to control manufacturing and operating costs,
•Risks related to the manufacturing of the Company’s products and conducting business operations in non-U.S. countries, including the risk of depending on key suppliers who are also in non-U.S. countries,
•The Company’s ability to purchase sufficient materials, parts, and components to meet customer demand, particularly in light of global economic conditions,
•The availability of credit and the volatility of capital markets, which may affect our suppliers, customers, and ourselves,
•Success of integrating acquisitions,
•Interest rate and financial market conditions,
•Access to cash and cash equivalents held outside the U.S.,
•The effect of natural disasters, man-made disasters, public health issues (including pandemics), and cybersecurity incidents on our business,
•The impact of changes in foreign and domestic governmental policies, laws, or regulations,
•The outcome of litigation in which the Company may be involved, particularly litigation or claims related to infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, and
•The outcome of any future tax matters or tax law changes.
We encourage readers of this report to review Item 1A, “Risk Factors,” in this report for further discussion of issues that could affect the Company’s future results. We undertake no obligation, other than as may be required by law, to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances, or any other reason after the date of this report.
 
Item 1.Business
The Company
We are a global leader providing Enterprise Asset Intelligence (“EAI”) solutions in the Automatic Identification and Data Capture (“AIDC”) industry. The AIDC market consists of mobile computing, data capture, radio frequency identification devices (“RFID”), barcode printing, and other automation products and services. The Company’s solutions are proven to help our customers and end-users achieve their critical business objectives, including improved operational efficiency, optimized workflows, increased asset utilization, improved regulatory compliance, and better customer experiences.

We design, manufacture, and sell a broad range of AIDC products, including: mobile computers, barcode scanners and imagers, RFID readers, specialty printers for barcode labeling and personal identification, real-time location systems (“RTLS”), related accessories and supplies, such as labels and other consumables, and software applications. We also provide a full range of services, including maintenance, technical support, repair, managed and professional services, as well as cloud-based subscriptions. End-users of our products, solutions and services include retail and e-commerce, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, healthcare, hospitality, warehouse and distribution, energy and utilities, government, public safety, education, and banking enterprises around the world. We provide our products, solutions and services globally through a direct sales force
4
Table of Contents
and extensive network of approximately 10,000 channel partners. We provide products, solutions and services in approximately 180 countries, with 128 facilities and approximately 8,800 employees worldwide.

Through innovative application of our technologies, we are leading an evolution of the traditional AIDC market into EAI, which encompasses solutions that sense information from enterprise assets, including packages moving through a supply chain, equipment in a factory, workers in a warehouse, and shoppers in a store. Data from enterprise assets, including status, location, utilization, and preferences, is then analyzed to provide actionable insights. Finally, with the benefits of mobility, these insights can be delivered to the right user at the right time to drive more effective actions. As a result, our solutions and technologies enable enterprises to “sense, analyze, and act” more effectively to improve operational effectiveness and achieve critical business objectives.

The evolution of the AIDC market is being driven by strong underlying secular trends in technology. These trends include the internet of things (“IoT”), cloud-based data analytics, mobility, as well as artificial intelligence and automation. The IoT enables an exchange of information among a proliferation of smart, connected devices. Newer solutions, which include these smart, connected devices, capture a much broader range of information than is possible with traditional AIDC solutions and communicate this information in real-time. Cloud computing and expanded data analytics are allowing enterprises to make better business decisions through improved timeliness and visibility to information and workflows. While traditional AIDC solutions sporadically capture limited amounts of data and populate static enterprise systems, EAI solutions continuously analyze real-time data from many sources to generate actionable insights. The continued rapid growth of mobile devices and application software are also significantly expanding mobile computing use cases in the enterprise. With this expanded mobility, end-users can consume or act upon dynamic enterprise data and information anytime and anywhere. Computer vision solutions, which enable the automatic extraction and understanding of useful information from a digital image or video, are also driving the expansion of intelligent automation, which leverages our sense-analyze-act framework to improve workflows with or without a human operator.

Acquisitions
Reflexis: On September 1, 2020, the Company acquired Reflexis Systems, Inc. (“Reflexis”) for $548 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Reflexis is a provider of task and workforce management, execution, and communication solutions for customers in the retail, food service, hospitality, and banking industries. Through its acquisition of Reflexis, the Company intends to enhance its solution offerings to customers in those industries by combining Reflexis’ platform with its existing software solutions and EVM products. The operating results of Reflexis are included within the EVM segment beginning September 1, 2020.

Cortexica: On November 5, 2019, the Company acquired Cortexica Vision Systems Limited (“Cortexica”) for $7 million in cash. Cortexica is a provider of computer vision-based artificial intelligence solutions primarily serving the retail industry, expanding upon the Company’s initiative to advance our solutions offerings. The operating results of Cortexica are included within the EVM segment beginning November 5, 2019.

Profitect: On May 31, 2019, the Company acquired Profitect, Inc. (“Profitect”) for total purchase consideration of $79 million, which consisted of $75 million in cash paid, net of cash acquired, and the fair value of the Company’s existing minority ownership interest in Profitect of $4 million, as remeasured upon acquisition. Profitect is a provider of prescriptive analytics primarily serving the retail industry. In acquiring Profitect, the Company enhanced its existing software solutions within the retail industry, with possible future applications in other industries. The operating results of Profitect are included within the EVM segment beginning May 31, 2019.

Temptime: On February 21, 2019, the Company acquired Temptime Corporation (“Temptime”) for $180 million in cash, net of cash acquired. Temptime is a developer and manufacturer of temperature-monitoring labels and devices. Through this acquisition, the Company expanded its product offerings within the healthcare industry, with possible future applications in other industries involving temperature-sensitive products. The operating results of Temptime are included within the AIT segment beginning February 21, 2019.

Xplore: On August 14, 2018, the Company acquired Xplore Technologies Corporation (“Xplore”) for $72 million in cash. Xplore designs, integrates, markets and sells rugged tablets that are primarily used by industrial, government, and field service organizations. The acquisition of Xplore expanded the Company’s portfolio of mobile computing devices to serve a wider range of customers. The operating results of Xplore are included within the EVM segment beginning August 14, 2018.

See Note 5, Business Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.
5
Table of Contents
Operations
Our operations consist of two reportable segments: (1) Asset Intelligence & Tracking (“AIT”), primarily comprised of barcode and card printing, supplies, services, location solutions, and retail solutions; and (2) Enterprise Visibility & Mobility (“EVM”), primarily comprised of mobile computing, data capture, RFID, services and solutions.
Asset Intelligence & Tracking
Barcode and Card Printing: We design, manufacture, and sell printers, which produce high-quality labels, wristbands, tickets, receipts, and plastic cards on demand. Our customers use our printers in a wide range of applications, including routing and tracking, patient safety, transaction processing, personal identification, and product authentication. These applications require high levels of data accuracy, speed, and reliability. They also include specialty printing for receipts and tickets for improved customer service and productivity gains. Plastic cards are used for secure, reliable personal identification (e.g. state identification cards, drivers’ licenses, and healthcare identification cards), access control (e.g. employee or student building access), and financial transactions (e.g. credit, debit and ATM cards). Our RFID printers and encoders are used to print and encode passive RFID labels. We offer a wide range of accessories and options for our printers, including vehicle mounts and battery chargers.
Supplies: We produce and sell stock and customized thermal labels, receipts, ribbons, plastic cards, and RFID tags suitable for use with our printers, and also wristbands which can be imaged in most commercial laser printers. We support our printing products, resellers, and end-users with an extensive line of superior quality, high-performance supplies optimized to a particular end-user’s needs. We promote the use of supplies with our printing equipment. Our supplies business also includes temperature-monitoring labels primarily used in vaccine distribution, as well as self-laminating wristbands for use in laser printers.
Services:  We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services, including those which help customers manage their devices and related software applications. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions and multiple service levels. They are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners.
Location Solutions: The Company offers a range of RTLS and services which incorporate active and passive RFID and other tracking technologies to enable users to locate, track, manage, and optimize the utilization of enterprise assets and personnel. We provide substantially all elements of the location solution, including tags, sensors, exciters, middleware software, and application software. Our location solutions are deployed primarily in manufacturing, aerospace, transportation and logistics, sports, and healthcare industries.
Retail Solutions: The Company provides a range of physical inventory management solutions with application in the retail industry, including solutions for full store physical inventories, cycle counts, and analytics. These solutions include the use of barcode scanners or RFID readers, along with connected software.

Enterprise Visibility & Mobility
Mobile Computing: We design, manufacture, and sell rugged and enterprise-grade mobile computing products and accessories in a variety of specialized form factors and designs to meet a wide array of enterprise applications. Industrial applications include inventory management in warehouses and distribution centers; field mobility applications include field service, post and parcel, and direct store delivery; and retail and customer facing applications include e-commerce, omnichannel, mobile point of sale, inventory look-up, staff collaboration, and analytics. Our products primarily incorporate the Android™ operating system and support local-area and wide-area voice and data communications. Our mobile computing products often incorporate barcode scanning, global position system and RFID features, and other sensory capabilities. We also provide related software tools, utilities, and applications.

Data Capture and RFID: We design, manufacture, and sell barcode scanners, image capture devices, and RFID readers. Our portfolio of barcode scanners includes laser scanning and imager products and form factors, including fixed, handheld, and embedded original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) modules. The Company’s data capture products capture business-critical information by decoding barcodes and images and transmitting the resulting data to enterprise systems for analysis and timely decision making. Common applications include asset identification and tracking and workflow management in a variety of industries, including retail, transportation and logistics, manufacturing, and healthcare. Our RFID line of data capture products is focused on ultra-high frequency (“UHF”) technology. These RFID devices comply with the electronic product code (“EPC”) global Generation 2 UHF standard and similar standards around the world. We also provide related accessories.

Services: We provide a full range of maintenance, technical support, and repair services. We also provide managed and professional services that, among other things, help customers design, test, and deploy our solutions as well as manage their mobility devices, software applications and workflows. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions with multiple service
6
Table of Contents
levels, which are typically contracted through multi-year service agreements. We provide our services directly and through our global network of partners.

Workflow optimization solutions: We provide a portfolio of software-based solutions that help our customers analyze and act on data in real time, improving the agility and productivity of key operational workflows. Our portfolio of offerings includes workforce management solutions, workflow execution and task management solutions; prescriptive analytics solutions; as well as communications and collaboration solutions. Our primary focus is on frontline workers in Zebra’s core customer segments, including retail, transportation and logistics, and healthcare. Our offerings include cloud-based subscriptions with multiple service levels, which are typically contracted through multi-period service agreements. We sell and deliver our offerings both directly and through a set of systems integrators and other channel partners.
Our Competitive Strengths
The following are core competitive strengths that we believe enable us to differentiate ourselves from our competitors:

An industry leader focused solely on improving enterprise operations
We are a market leader in the key technologies of EAI, including mobile computing, barcode and card printing, data capture, and RFID. We also provide related software, services, and accessories. Our leadership position enables us to work with and support customers globally, in a variety of industries, who are focused on implementing leading-edge solutions.

High entry and switching barriers
On a global basis, we have long-standing relationships with end-users and with our extensive network of channel partners. We believe these customer relationships and our strong partner network are critical to our success and would be difficult for a new market entrant to replicate. We believe a significant portion of our products and solutions are deployed with specialized product performance and software application requirements, which could result in high switching costs.

Commitment to innovation and deep industry-specific expertise
Over time, we have developed and delivered improved, targeted end-to-end solutions for our customers. We remain committed to leveraging our technology portfolio and expertise in the industries that we service to continue to develop innovative solutions that meet the key needs of our customers.
Highly diversified business mix
We are highly diversified across business segments, end markets, geographies, and customers. Additionally, we have strong recurring business in services and supplies driven by an extensive global installed base of products.
Global reach and brand
We sell to customers directly and through our network of channel partners around the world. This global presence gives us the capability to supply our customers with products, solutions, and services no matter the location of their operations. In addition, we believe we have strong brand recognition with a reputation in the industry as a trusted and strategic partner, known for delivering high quality products that are reliable and durable.

Scale advantages
We believe the size and scope of our operations, including market leadership, product development investment, portfolio breadth, and global distribution, give us advantages over our competitors. We believe we have the largest installed base of products compared to other companies in our industry. These characteristics enable us to compete successfully, achieve economies of scale, and develop industry-leading solutions.

Our Business Strategies
Leverage our market leadership position and innovation to profitably grow our core business
We expect to drive revenue growth by continuing to outpace our competition in our core businesses, including mobile computing, data capture, barcode printing, and services. We expect to achieve this by leveraging our broad portfolio of solutions and product innovation and continuing to be a strategic partner to end customers. We also expect to drive growth by capitalizing on technology transitions occurring in the industry, including the transition to the Android™ operating system in mobile computing and transitions in data capture to newer technologies involving 2D and 3D imaging and RFID. This includes increased focus on market segments and geographies that offer share-gain opportunities. In addition, we plan to leverage our market-leading installed base to accelerate growth in attach-oriented products, including services, supplies, accessories, and software applications. Our global channel partner network is vital to helping us achieve these goals. As such, we will ensure that we provide the necessary value and support for our partners to be successful.

Advance our Enterprise Asset Intelligence vision
7
Table of Contents
Our EAI vision is for every asset and worker to be connected, visible, and optimally utilized. We believe that secular technology trends, particularly in IoT, cloud computing, intelligent automation, and mobility, advance our vision and are transforming our customers’ businesses and our industry, providing us with significant new opportunities to create value for our customers and for the Company. We expect to capitalize on these trends, and in particular the proliferation of smart connected sensors and devices in our core market segments, by providing end-to-end solutions that integrate these sensors and devices with cloud-based workflows and analytics applications. We plan to continue investing in the development of computer vision and other technologies that will enable intelligent automation solutions, providing increased visibility into the enterprise, real-time, actionable information, and improved customer experiences. Our solutions will also increasingly include advanced features, functions, and user experiences to drive additional competitive differentiation and elevate our role as a solutions provider.

Increase our opportunity for growth through expansion in adjacent market segments
We plan to drive growth through expansion, organically and inorganically, in adjacent market segments that are synergistic with our core markets. We will focus specifically on segments where our products and solutions, workflow expertise, and customer and industry relationships will enable us to provide significant value to end-users.

Enhance financial strength and flexibility
While maintaining our strong balance sheet, we intend to continue to improve profitability and cash flow generation through operational execution and increased productivity derived from continuous business process improvement, cost management, and focus on working capital efficiency.

Sustainable business model
Our corporate social responsibility priorities include human capital, resource conservation, and climate. These foundational priorities include initiatives that align with our corporate values and strategic focus, and help to ensure that our business is sustainable.

Competition
We operate in a highly competitive environment. The need for companies to improve productivity and implement their strategies, as well as the secular trends around IoT, cloud computing, automation, and mobility, are some of the factors that are creating growth opportunities for established and new competitors.

Key competitive factors include the breadth and quality of products, solutions and services, as well as pricing, design, performance, durability, geographic availability, warranty coverage, brand recognition, relationships with customers and channel partners, and company reputation. We believe we compete effectively with respect to these factors.

Mobile Computing: Competitors in mobile computing and related services include companies that have historically served enterprises with ruggedized devices. For some applications, we compete with companies that provide tablets and smart phones. Competitors include: Datalogic, Honeywell, and Panasonic.

Data Capture and RFID: Competitors that provide a broad portfolio of barcode scanning products and related services that are suitable for most global market applications include Datalogic and Honeywell. We also compete against smaller companies that focus on limited product subsets or specific regions, including Fujian Newland and Impinj.

Barcode and Card Printing: We consider our direct competition in printing to be producers of on-demand thermal transfer and direct thermal label fixed and mobile printing systems and RFID printer/encoders. We also compete with companies engaged in the design, manufacture, and marketing of printing systems that use technologies such as ink-jet, direct marking and laser printing, as well as card printers based on ink-jet, thermal transfer, embossing, film-based systems, encoders, laser engraving, and large-scale dye sublimation printers. In addition, service bureaus, which provide centralized services, compete for end-user business and provide an alternative to our card printing solutions. Competitors include: Fargo Electronics (a unit of HID Global), Honeywell, Sato, and Toshiba TEC.

Supplies: The supplies industry is highly fragmented with competition comprised of numerous companies of various sizes around the world.

Location Solutions: We compete with a diverse group of companies marketing location solutions that are primarily based on active RFID technologies. Competitors include: Cisco, Impinj, and Stanley Healthcare.

Workflow optimization solutions: We compete with a diverse and varied group of companies across our solution offerings. Competitors include: Ceridian, Cisco, Kronos, Theatro, and Workjam.

8
Table of Contents
Customers
End-users of our products, solutions and services are diversified across a wide variety of industries. We have had three customers that each accounted for 10% or more of our Net sales over the past three years. All three of these customers are distributors and not end-users. No end-user has accounted for 10% or more of our Net sales during these years. See Note 20, Segment Information & Geographic Data in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information.

Our Net sales to significant customers as a percentage of the Company’s total Net sales were as follows:
 	Year Ended December 31,	 	2020		2019		2018	Customer A	17.7 	%		18.3 	%		20.3 	%	Customer B	13.9 	%		13.7 	%		15.7 	%	Customer C	20.7 	%		16.6 	%		14.1 	% 

Sales and Marketing
Sales: We sell our products, solutions, and services primarily through distributors (two-tier distribution), value added resellers (“VARs”), independent software vendors (“ISVs”), direct marketers, and OEMs. We also sell directly to a select number of customers through our direct sales force. Distributors purchase our products and sell to VARs, ISVs and others, thereby increasing the distribution of our products globally. VARs, ISVs, OEMs, and systems integrators provide customers with a variety of hardware, accessories, software applications, and services. VARs and ISVs typically customize solutions for specific end-user applications using their industry, systems, and applications expertise. Some OEMs resell the Zebra-manufactured products under their own brands as part of their own product offering. Because these sales channels provide specific software, configuration, installation, integration, and support services to end-users within various industry segments, these relationships are highly valued by end-users and allow our products to reach customers in a wide array of industries around the world. We believe that the breadth of our distributor and channel partner network is a competitive differentiator and enhances our ability to compete. Finally, we experience some seasonality in sales, depending upon the geographic region and industry served.

Marketing: Our marketing function aligns closely with sales and product management functions to market our products and to deliver and promote solutions that address the needs of our customers and partners. Our marketing organization includes regional and channel marketing teams that interface closely with customers, partners, and sellers. Our marketing organization also includes teams that support global strategies and communications, including portfolio marketing, digital marketing, marketing operations and communications, and strategic marketing functions.

Manufacturing and Outsourcing
Final assembly of our hardware products is performed by third-parties, including electronics manufacturing services companies (“EMSs”) and joint design manufacturers (“JDMs”). Our products are currently produced in facilities primarily located in the Asia-Pacific region, including China, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Malaysia, as well as Mexico and Brazil. In 2020, we completed our efforts to diversify our product sourcing footprint by establishing production in Taiwan, Vietnam, and Malaysia and reducing reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing. The EMSs and JDMs produce our products to our design specifications. We maintain control over portions of the supply chain, including supplier selection and price negotiations for key components. The manufacturers purchase the components and subassemblies used in the production of our products. Our products are shipped to regional distribution centers, operated by third party logistics providers or the Company. A portion of products are reconfigured at the distribution centers through firmware downloads, packaging, and customer specific customization before they are shipped to customers. In addition, certain products are manufactured in accordance with procurement regulations and various international trade agreements and remain eligible for sale to the U.S. government.

Production facilities for our supplies products are located in the U.S. and Western Europe. We also supplement our in-house supplies production capabilities with third-party manufacturers, principally located in Asia-Pacific.

Repair services for our products are performed by either our own operations or through third-parties, with repair service hubs located in each of the regions in which we serve our customers.
Research and Development
The Company devotes significant resources to developing innovative solutions for our target markets and ensuring that our products, solutions, and services maintain high levels of reliability and provide value to end-users. Research and development expenditures for the years ended 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $453 million, $447 million, and $444 million, or 10.2%, 10.0% and 10.5% of Net sales, respectively. We have approximately 2,400 engineers and innovation and design experts worldwide focused on strengthening and broadening our extensive portfolio of products and solutions.

9
Table of Contents

Our Technology
Mobile Computing: Our mobile computing products incorporate a wide array of advanced technologies in rugged, ergonomic enclosures to meet the needs of specific use cases. Purpose-built rugged devices ensure reliable operations for targeted use cases, surviving years of rough handling and harsh environments. A broad portfolio of enterprise accessories further tailors mobile computers to meet a wide variety of enterprise use cases. Our mobile computers include hardened industry-standard operating systems with software features to facilitate customers’ mission-critical applications and ensure secure data transmission. Our mobile computers are also offered with software tools and services that support application development, device configuration, and field support to facilitate smooth and rapid deployment and ensure maximum customer return on investment. Additionally, specialized features such as advanced data capture technologies, data analytics technologies, voice and video collaboration tools, and advanced battery technologies enable our customers to work more efficiently and better serve their customers.

Data Capture and RFID: Our data capture products allow businesses to track business critical information quickly and accurately by providing real-time visibility into business processes and performance. These products include barcode scanners in a variety of form factors, including fixed and handheld scanners and standalone modules designed for integration into third-party OEM devices. Our scanners incorporate a variety of technologies including area imagers, linear imagers, lasers, and read linear, and two-dimensional barcodes. They are used in a broad range of applications, ranging from supermarket checkout to industrial warehouse optimization to patient management in hospitals. The design of these products reflects the diverse needs of these markets, with different ergonomics, multiple communication protocols, and varying levels of ruggedness.

Our RFID products include fixed readers, RFID enabled mobile computers, and RFID sleds. These utilize passive UHF to provide high speed, non-line of sight data capture from hundreds or thousands of RFID tags in near real-time. Using the EPC standard, end-users across multiple industries take advantage of RFID technology to track high-value assets, monitor shipments, and drive increased retail sales though improved inventory accuracy. We also offer mobile computers that support high frequency (“HF”) near-field communications (“NFC”) and low frequency (“LF”) radio technologies.

Barcode and Card Printing: The Company’s printers and print engines incorporate thermal printing technology. This technology creates an image by heating certain pixels of an electrical printhead to selectively image a ribbon or heat-sensitive substrate. Thermal printing benefits applications requiring simple and reliable operations, yet it is flexible enough to support a wide range of specialty label materials and associated inks. Our dye-sublimation thermal card printers produce full-color, photographic quality images that are well-suited for driver’s licenses, access and identification cards, transaction cards, and on-demand photographs. Many of our printers also incorporate RFID technology that can encode data into passive RFID transponders embedded in a label or card.

The Company’s printers integrate company-designed mechanisms, electrical systems, and firmware. Enclosures of metal or high-impact plastic ensure the durability of our printers. Special mechanisms optimize handling of labels, ribbons, and plastic cards. Fast, high-current electrical systems provide consistent image quality. Firmware supports serial, parallel, Ethernet, USB, Bluetooth, or 802.11 wireless communications with appropriate security protocols. Printing instructions can be received as a proprietary language such as Zebra Programming Language II (“ZPL II®”), as a print driver-provided image, or as user-defined Extensible Markup Language (“XML”). These features make our printers easy to integrate into virtually all common computer systems.

Location Solutions: We offer a range of scalable RTLS technologies that generate precise, on-demand information about the physical location and status of high-valued assets. These solutions use active and passive RFID technologies, beacons, and other tracking technologies to locate, track, manage, and optimize high-value assets, equipment, and people. In addition, we offer a selection of RTLS infrastructure products that receive tag transmissions and provide location and motion calculations, database and system management functions, and asset visibility. The flexible infrastructure supports large tag populations and a range of coverage areas.

Supplies: Our supplies business includes thermal labels, receipts, ribbons, plastic cards and wristbands suitable for use with our printers, and wristbands which can be imaged in most commercial laser printers. Our wristbands incorporate multi-layer form technology to ensure trouble-free printing, wearer comfort, and reliable barcode reading, even when exposed to harsh chemical environments. We offer many thermal and RFID labels, card, and receipt materials, and matching ribbons for diverse applications that may require meeting unique or precise specifications, including chemical or abrasion resistance, extreme temperatures, exceptional image quality, or long life. Also included within our supplies business are temperature monitoring labels, which incorporate chemical indicators that are designed to change color upon exceeding predefined time and/or temperature thresholds.

10
Table of Contents
Workflow optimization solutions: Our workflow optimization solutions are delivered via a hybrid cloud platform and leverage big data, artificial intelligence and mobile/web applications to provide customers with real-time visibility and actionable insights about their business. By analyzing labor, inventory, transactional and real-time situational data, our solutions are able to forecast demand, prescribe actions, schedule workers, and enhance collaboration.

Intellectual Property
We rely on a combination of trade secrets, patents, trademarks, copyrights, and contractual rights to establish and protect our innovations, and hold a large portfolio of intellectual property rights in the U.S. and other countries. As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned approximately 2,100 trademark registrations and trademark applications, and approximately 5,300 patents and patent applications, worldwide.

We believe that our intellectual property will continue to provide us with a competitive advantage in our core product areas as well as provide leverage for future technologies. Our success depends more upon our extensive know-how, deep understanding of end-user processes and work-flows, innovative culture, technical leadership and marketing and sales abilities. Although we do not rely only on patents or other intellectual property rights to protect or establish our market position, we will enforce our intellectual property rights when and where appropriate.

Human Capital
The Company is committed to attracting, developing, and retaining talent to enable our strategic vision. This commitment directly shapes our approach to fostering a culture of inclusion and diversity and ensuring each employee can reach their potential.

We believe that our strong Company culture is a key enabler of our success. The values of accountability, integrity, teamwork, agility, and innovation are central to our culture and how we operate and work together. We take proactive steps to ensure that this culture continues to permeate throughout our organization. Employee engagement within the Company is consistently high with the most recent measures scoring above relevant benchmarks for technology companies. We consider our relations with our employees to be very good. In addition, we believe our compensation structure aligns with our stockholders’ long-term interests by balancing profitability and growth, as well as current market practices, and reflects the Company’s commitment to pay for performance.

As of December 31, 2020, the Company had approximately 8,800 employees globally, with a majority in sales and technical roles. Our employees reside in 54 countries with a majority of our employees located outside of the U.S. Some portions of our business, primarily in Europe, China, and India, are subject to labor laws that differ significantly from those in the U.S. In Europe, for example, it is common for a works council to represent employees when discussing matters such as compensation, benefits, restructurings and layoffs.

Talent Development
We are a Company built on great minds, with unique points of view that come together to build something remarkable. We believe that empowered team members enable us to advance our strategic priorities.

As a result, we provide ample employee development opportunities, starting with our robust onboarding process. Our Zebra Education Network online learning platform offers a wide variety of learning and development resources such as formal learning courses, cross-functional development experiences, as well as tools for mentoring and career shadowing. We also offer annual training and certification programs. Additionally, we conduct a robust talent review to assess our leadership pipeline and align on the skills we need to proactively develop for the future. This annual exercise is complemented by quarterly sessions with management to ensure we make progress on our critical talent development efforts throughout the year.

Inclusion and Diversity
We are fostering a diverse workforce where employees are encouraged to bring their best selves to work, and where all are seen, heard, valued, and respected. We believe a diverse workforce and inclusive culture fosters innovation at the Company. We expanded our Inclusion & Diversity program in 2020, after formalizing the program in 2018. In 2020 we also launched our Inclusion & Diversity Advisory Council, comprised of Executive Leadership Team members and others from across the organization to oversee our strategy and champion our efforts.

Our Chief Executive Officer has expressed support for diversity efforts by personally signing a commitment with the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion, the Business Roundtable, and The Valuable 500. The Company is also fostering inclusion and diversity through the following mechanisms:

•Inclusion Networks: We have a number of employee-led inclusion groups including the Women’s Inclusion Network (WIN), the LGBTQ+ group called ZEAL (Zebra Equality Alliance), the Veterans group called VETZ, the Hispanic
11
Table of Contents
Inclusion Network called UNIDOZ, Zebras of African Descent (ZAD), and EDGE (Empowering Dynamic Generational Employees), which is geared towards our Millennial and Gen Z early career professionals. Each group is sponsored by one or more members of our Executive Leadership Team.

•Imbedding Inclusive Behaviors: We provide a variety of training including unconscious bias awareness for all employees, interviewing bias awareness training for hiring managers, and a mandatory Inclusive Leadership workshop for all people leaders. Additionally, our Inclusion Networks host a wide variety of events focused on increasing cultural competency.

•External Outreach: We leverage technology to remove gendered language from job postings to attract a diverse pool of applicants. We also strive to create a diverse slate of candidates wherever possible, with additional emphasis on our director level roles and above. We have established partnerships with Catalyst, Society of Women Engineers (SWE), National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), Disability IN, as well as Historically Black Colleges and Universities to enhance our recruitment efforts and deepen our partnerships with diverse talent.

Regulatory Matters
Wireless Regulatory Matters
Our business is subject to certain wireless regulatory matters.
The use of wireless voice, data, and video communications systems requires radio spectrum, which is regulated by government agencies throughout the world. In the U.S., the Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (“NTIA”) regulate spectrum use by non-federal entities and federal entities, respectively. Similarly, countries around the world have one or more regulatory bodies that define and implement the rules for use of the radio spectrum, pursuant to their respective national laws and international coordination under the International Telecommunications Union. We manufacture and market products in spectrum bands already made available by regulatory bodies, these include voice and data infrastructure, mobile radios, and portable or hand-held devices. Consequently, our results of operations could be positively or negatively affected by the rules and regulations adopted from time-to-time by the FCC, NTIA, or regulatory agencies in other countries. Our products operate both on licensed and unlicensed spectrum. The availability of additional radio spectrum may provide new business opportunities, and consequently, the loss of available radio spectrum may result in the loss of business opportunities. Regulatory changes in current spectrum bands may also provide opportunities or may require modifications to some products so they can continue to be manufactured and marketed.
Other Regulatory Matters
Some of our operations use substances regulated under various federal, state, local, and international laws governing the environment and worker health and safety, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the ground, air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. Certain products are subject to various federal, state, local, and international laws governing chemical substances in electronic products. During 2020, compliance with U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment did not have a material effect on our business or results of operations.

Available Information
Our website address is www.zebra.com. The information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, are made available free of charge on the Investor Relations page of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the SEC.

12
Table of Contents
Item 1A.Risk Factors
Investors should carefully consider the risks, uncertainties, and other factors described below, as well as other disclosures in this report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, because they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and growth prospects. These risks are not the only risks we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. No priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear.
General Business and Industry Risks
The Company is vulnerable to the potential difficulties associated with the increase in the complexity of our business. We have grown rapidly over the last several years through acquisition and worldwide growth. This growth has caused increased complexities in the business. We believe our future success depends in part on our ability to manage our growth and increased complexities of our business. The following factors could present difficulties to us:

•Managing our distribution channel partners;
•Managing our contract manufacturing and supply chain;
•Manufacturing an increased number of products;
•Developing and managing custom solutions offerings;
•Managing parties to whom we have outsourced portions of our business operations;
•Managing administrative and operational burdens;
•Managing stakeholder interests including customer, investor and employee social responsibility matters;
•Maintaining and improving information technology infrastructure to support growth;
•Managing the integration of acquisitions;
•Managing logistical problems common to complex, expansive operations;
•Managing our international operations; and
•Attracting, developing and retaining individuals with the requisite technical expertise to develop new technologies and introduce new products and solutions.
Inability to consummate future acquisitions at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to expand revenues, earnings, and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and to realize anticipated synergies. Acquisitions can be difficult to identify and consummate due to competition among prospective buyers and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approval on acceptable terms.
The Company could encounter difficulties in any acquisition it undertakes, including unanticipated integration problems and business disruption. Acquisitions could also dilute stockholder value and adversely affect operating results. We may acquire or make investments in other businesses, technologies, services, products, or solutions. An acquisition may present business issues which are new to us. The process of integrating any acquired business, technology, service, or product into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Integration of an acquired company also may consume considerable management time and attention, which could otherwise be available for ongoing operations and the further development of our existing business. These and other factors may result in benefits of an acquisition not being fully realized.
Acquisitions also may involve a number of risks, including:

•Difficulties and uncertainties in retaining the customers or other business relationships from the acquired entities;
•The loss of key employees of acquired entities;
•The ability of acquired entities to fulfill their customers’ obligations;
•The inheritance of known, and the discovery of unknown, issues or liabilities;
•Pre-closing and post-closing acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results and cash flows in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period;
•The failure of acquired entities to meet or exceed expected operating results or cash flows could result in impairment of goodwill or intangible assets acquired;
•The ability to implement internal controls and accounting systems necessary to be compliant with requirements applicable to public companies subject to SEC reporting, which could result in misstated financial reports; and
•Future acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, and goodwill impairment charges.
13
Table of Contents
The Company may not be able to continue to develop products or solutions to address user needs effectively in an industry characterized by ongoing change. To be successful, we must adapt to rapidly changing technological and application needs by continually improving our products and solutions, as well as introducing new products, solutions, and services, to address user demands.
The Company’s industry is characterized by:

•Evolving industry standards;
•Frequent new product, solution, and service introductions;
•Evolving distribution channels;
•Increasing demand for customized product and software solutions;
•Changing customer demands; and
•Changing security protocols.
Future success will depend on our ability to effectively and economically adapt in this evolving environment. We could incur substantial costs if we must modify our business to adapt to these changes, and may even be unable to adapt to these changes.
The Company participates in a competitive industry, which may become more competitive. Competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technology and changes in customer requirements. We face significant competition in developing and selling our products and solutions. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to effectively and economically provide:

•Technologically advanced systems that satisfy user demands;
•Superior customer service;
•High levels of quality and reliability; and
•Dependable and efficient distribution networks.
We cannot assure we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or technologies. Increased competition in mobile computing products, data capture products, radio frequency identification devices (“RFID”), printers, supplies, or software-based solutions may result in price reductions, lower gross profit margins, and loss of market share, and could require increased spending on research and development, sales and marketing, and customer support. Some competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships with suppliers or companies that produce complementary products and solutions, which may create additional pressures on our competitive position in the marketplace.
Operational Risks

The Company has substantial operations and sells a significant portion of our products, solutions and services outside of the U.S. and purchases important components, including final products, from suppliers located outside the U.S. Shipments to non-U.S. customers are expected to continue to account for a material portion of Net sales. We also expect to continue the use of third-party contract manufacturing services with non-U.S. production and assembly operations for our products.

Risks associated with operations, sales, and purchases outside the United States include:

•Fluctuating foreign currency rates could restrict sales, increase costs of purchasing, and affect collection of receivables outside of the U.S.;
•Volatility in foreign credit markets may affect the financial well-being of our customers and suppliers;
•Violations of anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, could result in large fines and penalties;
•Adverse changes in, or uncertainty of, local business laws or practices, including the following:
•Imposition of burdensome tariffs, quotas, taxes, trade barriers, or capital flow restrictions;
•Restrictions on the export or import of technology may reduce or eliminate the ability to sell in, or purchase from, certain markets;
•Political and economic instability may reduce demand for our products or put our non-U.S. assets at risk;
•Limited intellectual property protection in certain countries may limit recourse against infringement on our products or may cause us to refrain from selling in certain geographic territories;
•Staffing may be difficult including higher than anticipated turnover;
•A government-controlled exchange rate and limitations on the convertibility of currencies, including the Chinese Yuan;
•Transportation delays and customs related delays may affect production and distribution of our products;
•Geopolitical uncertainty or turmoil could negatively affect our operations or those of our customers or suppliers;
14
Table of Contents
•Effectively managing and overseeing operations that are distant and remote from corporate headquarters; and
•Integration and enforcement of laws varies significantly among jurisdictions and may change over time

Third parties may allege that the Company or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. Periodically, third parties claim that we or our suppliers infringe upon their intellectual property rights. As we continue to expand our business and incorporate new technologies into our products and solutions, these types of claims may increase. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and divert the attention of key personnel. To the extent a violation of a third party’s patent or other intellectual property right is established, we may be prevented from operating our business as planned and we may be required to pay costly judgments or settlements, enter into costly licensing arrangements or use a non-infringing method to accomplish our business objectives, any of which could have a negative impact on our operating margins.
The inability to protect intellectual property could harm our reputation, and our competitive position may be materially damaged. Our intellectual property is valuable and provides us with certain competitive advantages. We use copyrights, patents, trademarks, trade secrets, and contracts to protect these proprietary rights. Despite these precautions, third parties may be able to copy or reproduce aspects of our intellectual property and our products or, without authorization, to misappropriate and use information we regard as trade secrets. Additionally, the intellectual property rights we obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or infringed. In any infringement litigation that the Company may undertake to protect our intellectual property, any award of monetary damages may be unlikely or very difficult to obtain, and any such award we may receive may not be commercially valuable. Furthermore, efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property and may cause us to incur substantial litigation costs. Because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of the Company’s confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Some aspects of our business and services also rely on technologies, software, and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all.
We currently use third-party and/or open source operating systems and associated application ecosystems in certain of our products and solutions. Such parties ceasing continued development of the operating systems or restricting our access to such operating systems could adversely impact our business and financial results. We are dependent on third-parties’ continued development of operating systems, software application ecosystem infrastructures, and such third-parties’ approval of our implementations of their operating systems and associated applications. If such parties cease to continue development or support of such operating systems or restrict our access to such operating systems, we would be required to change our strategy for such devices. Our financial results could be negatively impacted by a resulting shift away from the operating systems we currently use and the associated applications ecosystem could be costly and difficult. A strategy shift could increase the burden of development on the Company and potentially create a gap in our portfolio for a period of time, which could competitively disadvantage us.
Cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations. We rely on information technology systems throughout the Company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, coordinate shipments to distributors and customers, maintain confidential and proprietary information, and other technical activities, and operate other critical functions such as internet connectivity, network communications, and email. Like many companies, we continually strive to meet industry information security standards relevant to our business. We periodically perform vulnerability assessments, remediate vulnerabilities, review log/access, perform system maintenance, manage network perimeter protection, implement and manage disaster recovery testing, and provide periodic educational sessions to our employees to foster awareness of schemes to access sensitive information. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, there is no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent a cybersecurity incident. A cybersecurity incident could include an attempt to gain unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Phishing and other types of attempts to obtain unauthorized information or access are often sophisticated and difficult to detect or defeat.
A cybersecurity incident, including deliberate attacks and unintentional events, may lead to a material disruption of our core business systems, the loss or corruption of confidential business information, and/or the disclosure of personal data that in each case could result in an adverse business impact as well as possible damage to our brand. This could also lead to a public disclosure or theft of private intellectual property and a possible loss of customer confidence.
While we have experienced and expect to continue to experience these types of threats and incidents, there have been no material incidents incurred to-date at the Company. If our core business operations, or that of one of our third-party service providers, were to be breached, this could affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and data. Any failure on the part of us or our third-party service providers to maintain the security of data we are required to protect, including
15
Table of Contents
via the penetration of our network security and the misappropriation of confidential and proprietary information, could result in business disruption, damage to our reputation, financial obligations to third parties, fines, penalties, regulatory proceedings, and private litigation with potentially large costs, and also result in deterioration in our suppliers’, distributors’, and customers’ confidence in us and other competitive disadvantages, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we continue to perform security due diligence, there is always the possibility of a significant breach.

Our products and solutions that are deployed in customer environments also have the possibility of being breached, which could result in damage to a customer’s confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the customer’s data and systems. It is possible that such a breach could result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of our resources; injury to our reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages. To date, we have had no material incidents related to the security on our products or solutions. Although we maintain insurance related to cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will cover the particular cyber incident at issue or that such coverage will be sufficient.
We may incur liabilities as a result of product failures due to actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. We may be subject to product liability claims, which could include claims for property or economic damages or personal injury, in the event damages arise from our products as a result of actual or apparent design or manufacturing defects. Such design or manufacturing defects may occur not only in our own designed products, but also in components provided by third-party suppliers. We generally have insurance protection against property damage and personal injury liabilities and seek to limit such risk through product design, manufacturing quality control processes, product testing and contractual indemnification from suppliers. However, due to the growing size of the Company’s installed product base and growing number of applications in which our products can be used, an actual or alleged design or manufacturing defect could result in product recalls, customer service costs or legal costs that could have material adverse effects on our financial results.
Defects or errors in the Company’s software products could harm our reputation, result in significant cost to us, and impair our ability to market such products. Our software may contain undetected errors, defects, or bugs. Although we have not suffered significant harm from any errors, defects, or bugs to date, we may discover significant errors, defects, or bugs in the future that we may not be able to correct or correct in a timely manner. Any future errors, defects, or bugs found in our software products and related services may result in delays in, or loss of market acceptance of, our products, solutions or services; diversion of resources; injury to reputation; increased service and warranty expenses; and payment of damages.
We depend on the ongoing services of our senior management and the ability to attract and retain key personnel. The future success of the Company is substantially dependent on the continued services and contributions of senior management and other key personnel. The ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly skilled employees is important to our long-term success. Competition for skill sets in certain functions within our industry is intense and we may be unable to retain key employees or attract, assimilate, or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. Any disruption in the services of senior management or our ability to attract and retain key personnel may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

A natural disaster, widespread public health issue, civil unrest, or man-made disaster may cause supply disruptions that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Natural disasters or widespread public health issues, including pandemics, may occur in the future and the Company is not able to predict to what extent or duration any such disruptions will have on our ability to maintain ordinary business operations. The Company’s operations and facilities are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters. If any of our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Following an interruption to our business, the Company could require substantial recovery time, experience significant expenditures to resume operations, and lose significant sales. If such a disruption were to occur, we could breach agreements, our reputation could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The consequences of a natural disaster or widespread public health issue may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.

The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial results, and results of operations. The coronavirus (“COVID-19”) has spread rapidly worldwide, resulting in a broad number of governmental and commercial efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 globally, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns. The COVID-19 pandemic has been, and continues to be, complex and rapidly evolving, and has adversely impacted our business, primarily related to lower customer demand and higher fulfillment costs. The duration and extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operations and financial results depends on factors that cannot be accurately predicted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of COVID-19, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, the extent to which vaccines and/or other medical treatments are developed and made available to the
16
Table of Contents
public, and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, industry partners, suppliers and third party dealers, distributors, and resellers.

The federal, state, and local governments as well as foreign governments, to varying degrees, have imposed, and continue to impose, several protocols and regulations restricting the physical movement or other activities of individuals in an effort to limit the spread of COVID-19. We have implemented a number of measures in an effort to protect the health and well-being of our employees, customers and suppliers, including having the majority of office workers work remotely, limiting employee travel, and withdrawing from industry events. The transition to working remotely for most of our office employees may impact our business operations, customer relationships, pose additional data security risks as well as impact our ability to attract and retain talent. The extent and duration of ongoing workplace restrictions and limitations, particularly in sites with significant headcount, could adversely impact our operations and our ability to execute on strategic imperatives for our business. As governments ease their restrictions and we allow our employees to come back to work in our offices in a controlled approach, we have modified our business practices, including implementing social distancing protocols, office capacity restrictions, health screening, provision of personal protective equipment, tracking and tracing protocols, and extensively and frequently disinfecting our workspaces. However, there is no guarantee that such protocols will be successful in preventing the spread of COVID-19 amongst our employees. In late 2020, certain vaccines were authorized by major regulatory bodies to help fight the infection of COVID-19, and certain other vaccines are in the late stages of development to provide such treatment. At this time, the availability of authorized vaccines is highly limited, and the time required to make these vaccines available to all members of the public remains uncertain. Further, we have experienced higher than normal employee absentee rates for employees who are unable to work from home, and even as employees return to our offices, we may be prevented from conducting business activities at full capacity for an indefinite period of time. The potential negative effects to our operations, including reductions in production levels, research and development activities, and increased costs resulting from our efforts to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, may adversely affect our ability to deliver our products, solutions and services.

In addition, the continued spread of COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the worldwide credit and financial markets, which could limit our ability to obtain external financing and result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to credit defaults, adversely affecting our liquidity. While the COVID-19 pandemic has not materially impacted our liquidity and capital resources to date, the duration and severity of any further economic or market impact of the pandemic remains uncertain and there can be no assurance that it will not have an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources, including our ability to access capital markets, in the future.

If COVID-19 becomes more prevalent in the locations where our customers, suppliers, or we conduct business, we may experience more pronounced disruptions in our operations. If we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively, our business and results of operations in future periods may be adversely affected. Moreover, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may exacerbate other pre-existing risks, such as global economic conditions, political, regulatory, social, financial, operational and cybersecurity as well as similar risks relating to our suppliers and customers, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

Zebra could be adversely impacted by the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union. Zebra maintains its European regional headquarters and a label converting facility in the U.K. and has significant operations and sales throughout Europe, including its regional distribution center located in Heerenveen, Netherlands. Following the U.K. formally withdrawing from the E.U. on January 31, 2020, the U.K. and E.U. entered into a transition period that ended on December 31, 2020. The E.U.-U.K. Trade and Cooperation Agreement was entered into on December 24, 2020 and details the future relationship between the U.K. and E.U., and has resolved much uncertainty. Nevertheless, effective January 1, 2021, customs borders are in place between Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Great Britain and the E.U., which could adversely impact Zebra’s operations and financial performance due to the increase in importation requirements that may lead to disrupted or delayed shipments in the region. Such disrupted or delayed shipments may also result in shortages of products and components or loss of customer confidence, which could affect Zebra’s financial performance.

We are exposed to risks under large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts that may negatively impact our business. We enter into large, multi-year system and solutions and services contracts with our customers that expose us to risks, including among others: (i) technological risks, especially when contracts involve new technology; (ii) financial risks, including the accuracy of estimates inherent in projecting costs associated with large, long-term contracts and the related impact on operating results; and (iii) cybersecurity risks, especially in solutions or managed services contracts with customers that process personal data. Recovery of front-loaded costs incurred on long-term managed services and software-based solutions contracts with customers is dependent on the continued viability of such customers. The insolvency of customers could result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program or product, which could have an adverse impact on our profitability.
We enter into fixed-price contracts that could subject us to losses in the event we fail to properly estimate our costs. If our initial cost estimates are incorrect, we can lose money on these contracts. Because many of these contracts involve new
17
Table of Contents
technologies and applications and require the Company to engage subcontractors and can last multiple years, unforeseen events, such as technological difficulties, fluctuations in the price of raw materials, problems with our subcontractors or suppliers, and other cost overruns, can result in the contract pricing becoming less favorable or even unprofitable to us and have an adverse impact on our financial results. In addition, a significant increase in inflation rates could have an adverse impact on the profitability of longer-term contracts.
We utilize the services of subcontractors to perform under many of our contracts, and the inability of our subcontractors to perform in a timely and compliant manner could negatively impact our performance obligations as the prime contractor. We engage subcontractors on many of our contracts and our use of subcontractors has and may continue to increase as we expand our global solutions and services business. Our subcontractors may further subcontract performance and may supply third-party products and software. We may have disputes with our subcontractors, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed by a subcontractor and the functionality, warranty and indemnities of products, software, and services supplied by a subcontractor. We are not always successful in passing along customer requirements to our subcontractors, and thus in some cases may be required to absorb contractual risks from our customers without corresponding back-to-back coverage from our subcontractors. Our subcontractors may not be able to acquire or maintain the quality of the materials, components, subsystems, and services they supply, or secure preferred warranty and indemnity coverage from their suppliers, which might result in greater product returns, service problems, warranty claims and costs, and regulatory compliance issues and could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.

We have outsourced portions of certain business operations such as repair, distribution, engineering services, and information technology services and may outsource additional business operations, which limits our control over these business operations and exposes us to additional risk as a result of the actions of our outsource partners. We are not able to directly control certain business operations that we outsource. Our outsource partners may not prioritize our business over that of their other customers and they may not meet our desired level of service, cost reductions, or other metrics. In some cases, our outsource partners’ actions may result in our being found to be in violation of laws or regulations, such as import or export regulations. As many of our outsource partners operate outside of the U.S., our outsourcing activity exposes us to information security vulnerabilities and increases our global risks. In addition, we are exposed to the financial viability of our outsource partners. Once a business activity is outsourced, we may be contractually prohibited from, or may not practically be able to, bring such activity back within the Company or move it to another outsource partner. The actions of our outsource partners could result in reputational damage to us and could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, transitioning activities between new or existing outsource partners or across different geographies as well as insourcing activities could result in additional cost, time and management attention in order to effectively manage the transition, which could negatively impact our financial results.
Failure of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and representatives to use acceptable legal or ethical business practices could negatively impact our business. It is our policy to require suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, and third-party sales representatives (“TPSRs”) to operate in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including those regarding working conditions, employment practices, environmental compliance, anti-corruption, and trademark and copyright licensing. However, we do not control their labor and other business practices. If one of our suppliers, subcontractors, distributors, resellers, or TPSRs violates labor or other laws or implements labor or other business practices that are regarded as unethical, the shipment of finished products to us could be interrupted, orders could be canceled, relationships could be terminated, and our reputation could be damaged. If one of our suppliers or subcontractors fails to procure necessary license rights to trademarks, copyrights, or patents, legal action could be taken against us that could impact the salability of the Company’s products and solutions, and expose us to financial obligations to a third-party. Any of these events could have a negative impact on our sales and results of operations.
We rely on third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers to sell many of our products and solutions, and their failure to effectively bring our products and solutions to market may negatively affect our results of operation and financial results. In addition to our own sales force, we offer our products and solutions through a variety of third-party dealers, distributors, and resellers who may also market other products and solutions that compete with ours. Failure of one or more of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to effectively promote our products and solutions could affect our ability to bring products and solutions to market and have a negative impact on our results of operations. Any changes to our channel program may cause some of our third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers to exit the program due to modifications to the program structure, which may reduce our ability to bring products and solutions to market and could have a negative impact on our results of operations.
Some of these third-parties are smaller and more likely to be impacted by a significant decrease in available credit that could result from a weakness in the financial markets. If credit pressures or other financial difficulties result in insolvency for third-party dealers, distributors, or resellers and we are unable to successfully transition end-customers to purchase our products and solutions from other third-parties or from us directly, it may cause, and in some cases, has caused, a negative impact on our financial results.
18
Table of Contents
Final assembly of certain of our products is performed by third-party electronics manufacturers. We may be dependent on these third-party electronics manufacturers as a sole-source of supply for the manufacture of such products. A failure by such manufacturers to provide manufacturing services to us as we require, or any disruption in such manufacturing services up to and including a catastrophic shut-down, may adversely affect our business results. Because we rely on these third-party electronics manufacturers to manufacture our products, we may incur increased business continuity risks. We are not able to exercise direct control over the assembly or related operations of certain of our products. If these third-party manufacturers experience business difficulties or fail to meet our manufacturing needs, then we may be unable to satisfy customer product demands, lose sales, and be unable to maintain customer relationships. Longer production lead times may result in shortages of certain products and inadequate inventories during periods of unanticipated higher demand. Without such third parties continuing to manufacture our products, we may have no other means of final assembly of certain of our products until we are able to secure the manufacturing capability at another facility or develop an alternative manufacturing facility. This transition could be costly and time consuming. From time to time we may diversify our product sourcing footprint, similar to the actions we took with our efforts to reduce our reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing, which may result in additional costs.
Our future operating results depend on our ability to purchase a sufficient amount of materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software to meet the demands of customers. We source some of our components from sole source suppliers. Any disruption to our suppliers or significant increase in the price of supplies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our ability to meet customers’ demands depends, in part, on our ability to obtain in a timely manner an adequate delivery of quality materials, parts, and components, as well as services and software from our suppliers. In addition, certain supplies are available only from a single source or limited sources and we may not be able to diversify sources in a timely manner. If demand for our products, solutions or services increases from our current expectations or if suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our demand for other reasons, including as a result of natural disasters, public health issues, severe weather conditions, or financial issues, we could experience an interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies that could have a negative impact on our business. We have experienced shortages in the past that have negatively impacted our results of operations and may experience such shortages in the future. Credit constraints at our suppliers could cause us to accelerate payment of accounts payable by us, impacting our cash flow.
In addition, our current contracts with certain suppliers may be canceled or not extended by such suppliers and, therefore, not afford us with sufficient protection against a reduction or interruption in supplies. Moreover, in the event any of these suppliers breach their contracts with us, our legal remedies associated with such a breach may be insufficient to compensate us for any damages it may suffer.

Financial and Market Risks

The impact of changes in customs duties and trade policies in the United States and corresponding actions by other countries in which the Company does business could adversely affect our financial performance. The Company currently imports a significant percentage of our products into the U.S., and an increase in customs duties with respect to these imports could negatively impact the Company’s financial performance. During 2020, the Company successfully completed efforts to diversify its product sourcing footprint in order to reduce its reliance on Chinese-based manufacturing and mitigate the impacts of related customs duties.

Taxing authority challenges may lead to tax payments exceeding current reserves. We are subject to, and may become subject to, ongoing tax examinations in various jurisdictions. As a result, we may record incremental tax expense based on expected outcomes of such matters. In addition, we may adjust previously reported tax reserves based on expected results of these examinations. Such adjustments could result in an increase or decrease to the Company’s effective tax rate and cash flows. Future changes in tax law in various jurisdictions around the world and income tax holidays could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, foreign rate differential, future income tax expense, and cash flows.

Forecasting our estimated annual effective tax rate is complex and subject to uncertainty, and there may be material differences between our forecasted and actual tax rates. Forecasts of our income tax position and effective tax rate are complex, subject to uncertainty and periodic updates because our income tax position for each year combines the effects of a mix of profits earned and losses incurred by us in various tax jurisdictions with a broad range of income tax rates, as well as changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the impact of various accounting rules and changes to these rules, the results of examinations by various tax authorities, and the impact of any acquisition, business combination, disposition or other reorganization, or financing transaction.

As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of multiple, and sometimes conflicting, tax laws and regulations, as well as multinational tax conventions. Many countries have recently adopted, or are considering the adoption of, revisions to their respective tax laws based on the on-going reports issued by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and
19
Table of Contents
Development (“OECD”)/G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (“BEPS”) Project, which could materially impact our tax liability due to our organizational structure and significant operations outside of the U.S. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses resulting from our structure and operating model, the tax regulations and tax holidays in each geographic region, and the availability of tax credits and carry-forwards. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment, and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate.

Economic conditions and financial market disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced information technology spending may negatively impact our business. General disruption of financial markets and a related general economic downturn could adversely affect our business and financial condition through a reduction in demand for our products, solutions or services by our customers. If a slowdown were severe enough, it could require further impairment testing and write-downs of goodwill and other intangible assets. Cost reduction actions may be necessary and might lead to restructuring charges. A tightening of financial credit could adversely affect our customers, suppliers, outsourced manufacturers, and channel partners (e.g., distributors and resellers) from obtaining adequate credit for the financing of significant purchases. An economic downturn could also result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for our products, solutions and services; negatively impacting the ability to collect accounts receivable on a timely basis; result in additional reserves for uncollectible accounts receivable; and require additional reserves for inventory obsolescence. Higher volatility and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates for the U.S. Dollar against currencies such as the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Czech Koruna, Brazilian Real, and Chinese Yuan could negatively impact product sales, margins, and cash flows.

It is important that we are able to obtain many different types of insurance, and if we are not able to obtain insurance or exhaust our coverage, we may be forced to retain the risk. We have many types of insurance coverage and are also self-insured for some risks and obligations. Our third-party insurance coverage varies from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. In addition, our third-party insurance policies are subject to deductibles, policy limits, and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Further, certain types of coverages may be difficult or expensive to obtain. We self-insure against certain business risks and expenses where we believe we can adequately self-insure against the anticipated exposure and risk or where insurance is either not deemed cost-effective or is not available. If the amount of our third-party insurance coverage is not available or adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be forced to bear substantial costs from an accident, incident, or claim. Losses not covered by insurance could be substantial and unpredictable and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2020, we had $1.3 billion of outstanding debt, gross of unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:

•We may experience difficulty in satisfying our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness or future indebtedness;
•Our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes may be impaired;
•We may be at a competitive disadvantage with reduced flexibility in planning for, or responding to, changing conditions in the industry, including increased competition; and
•We may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in the business.
We expect to fund our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness from cash flow from operations. Our ability to meet our expenses and to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness when due depends on our future performance and ability to collect cash from our customers, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors.
If our business does not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to effect any of these actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our ability to restructure or refinance our indebtedness will depend on the condition of the capital and debt markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants,
20
Table of Contents
which could further restrict business operations. The terms of anticipated or future debt instruments may limit or prevent us from taking any of these actions. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and/or principal on outstanding indebtedness would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to access additional capital on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt service obligations, or to refinance or restructure our obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy the obligations in respect of our indebtedness.
Our use of derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk may result in added volatility in our operating results. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, we do utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce interest rate risk associated with our indebtedness. To manage variable interest rate risk, we entered into forward interest rate swap agreements, which will effectively convert a portion of our indebtedness into a fixed rate loan. Under generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the fair values of the swap contracts are reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of “Other, net” if not hedged. The associated impact on our quarterly operating results is directly related to changes in prevailing interest rates. If interest rates increase, we would have a non-cash gain on the swaps, and vice versa in the event of a decrease in interest rates. Consequently, these swaps introduce additional volatility to our operating results.

Legal and Regulatory Risks
We could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. Generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines, and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, business acquisition purchase price allocations, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, tax matters, and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. New accounting guidance may also require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements.

Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. As part of our operations, the Company collects, uses, stores, and transfers personal data of third parties, employees and limited customer data in and across various jurisdictions. Laws and regulations relating to the handling of such personal data may result in increased costs, legal claims, or fines against the Company. Existing laws and emerging regulations may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing (sometimes conflicting) interpretations. Government officials, regulators and privacy advocates are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data, which may result in new interpretations of existing laws that impact our business. Compliance with these laws may require us to, among other things, make changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that may result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to meet additional requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personal data without incurring expenses. We may experience reluctance or refusal by customers to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations to which we may be subject, or to protect personal data from unauthorized access, use, or other processing, may subject the Company to enforcement actions and regulatory investigations, claims, legal proceedings or other actions, reputational harm and loss of goodwill, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business.
The unfavorable outcome of any pending or future litigation, arbitration, or administrative action could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. From time to time we are a party to litigation, arbitration, or administrative actions. Our financial results and reputation could be negatively impacted by unfavorable outcomes to any pending or future litigation or administrative actions, including those related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, or other anti-corruption laws. There can be no assurances as to the favorable outcome of any litigation or administrative proceedings. In addition, it can be very costly to defend litigation or administrative proceedings and these costs could negatively impact our financial results.
We are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws. Our operations and the products we manufacture and/or sell are subject to a wide range of product regulatory and safety, consumer, worker safety, and environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such existing or future laws and regulations could subject us to future costs or liabilities, impact our production capabilities, constrict our ability to sell, expand or acquire facilities, restrict what products, solutions and services we can offer, and generally impact our financial performance. Some of
21
Table of Contents
these laws are environmental and relate to the use, disposal, remediation, emission and discharge of, and exposure to hazardous substances. These laws often impose liability and can require parties to fund remedial studies or actions regardless of fault. We continue to incur disposal costs and have ongoing remediation obligations. Environmental laws have tended to become more stringent over time and any new obligations under these laws could have a negative impact on our operations or financial performance.
Laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories; recycling of both electronic products and packaging; reducing or eliminating certain hazardous substances in electronic products; and the transportation of batteries continue to expand significantly. Laws pertaining to accessibility features of electronic products, standardization of connectors and power supplies, the transportation of lithium-ion batteries, and other aspects are also proliferating. There are also demanding and rapidly changing laws around the globe related to issues such as product safety, radio interference, radio frequency radiation exposure, medical related functionality, and consumer and social mandates pertaining to use of wireless or electronic equipment. These laws, and changes to these laws, could have a substantial impact on whether we can offer certain products, solutions, and services, and on what capabilities and characteristics our products, solutions or services can or must include.
These laws impact our products and negatively affect our ability to manufacture and sell products competitively. We expect these trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate that we will see increased demand to meet voluntary criteria related to reduction or elimination of certain constituents from products, increasing energy efficiency, and providing additional accessibility.

Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
 
Item 2.Properties

Our corporate headquarters are located in Lincolnshire, Illinois; a northern suburb of Chicago. We also operate manufacturing, production and warehousing, administrative, research, and sales facilities in other U.S. and international locations.

As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned three laboratory and warehouse facilities located in the U.S., U.K., and Canada.

As of December 31, 2020, the Company had a total of 125 leased facilities with locations spread globally; 35 of which are located in the U.S. and 90 of which are located in other countries. See Note 13, Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details related to the Company’s lease arrangements.

We generally consider the productive capacity of our facilities to be adequate and sufficient for our requirements. The extent of utilization of each manufacturing facility varies throughout the year.

Item 3.Legal Proceedings
See Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
Item 4.Mine Safety Disclosures
Not applicable.
22
Table of Contents