ITEM 1.    BUSINESS
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS
Zions Bancorporation, National Association and its subsidiaries (collectively “Zions Bancorporation, N.A.,” “the Bank,” “we,” “our,” “us”) together comprise a bank headquartered in Salt Lake City, Utah with assets of $81 billion at December 31, 2020, and annual net revenue of $2.8 billion for the year 2020. We provide a wide range of banking products and related services, primarily in the states of Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. We have over one million customers, served by our 422
4

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
branches at year-end 2020. We had 9,678 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2020. At year end, we had a strong capital position, with a Common Equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital to total risk-weighted assets ratio of 10.8%. When combined with our allowance for credit losses (“ACL”), this ratio was one of the highest among peer banks.
We conduct our operations primarily through seven separately managed “affiliates,” or “affiliate banks,” each with its own local branding and management team. These affiliate banks comprise our primary business segments as referred to throughout this document. We emphasize local authority and responsibility, local pricing, and customization of certain products (as applicable), designed to maximize customer satisfaction and strengthen community relations. For further information about our segments, see “Business Segment Results” on page 46 in MD&A and Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
We are focused on the communities in our geographic footprint, as well as providing banking services to businesses and their owners and executives in those communities with whom relationships are particularly important. Our experienced bankers develop long-lasting relationships with our customers by providing valuable advice and award-winning service. Such relationships are further enhanced by many of the high-quality digital products we offer. Building such relationships is essential to maintaining and improving upon our high-quality deposit franchise. Currently, we have one of the lowest costs of deposits and one of the highest proportions of noninterest-bearing demand deposits among peer banks.
PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
We provide the following banking products and services:
•corporate banking;
•commercial banking, including a focus on small- and medium-sized businesses;
•commercial real estate banking;
•municipal and public finance services;
•retail banking, including residential mortgages;
•trust services;
•wealth management and private client banking; and
•capital markets products and services.
COMPETITION
We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our most direct competition for loans and deposits comes from other commercial banks, credit unions, and thrifts, including financial institutions that do not have a physical presence in our market footprint, but solicit business via the Internet and other means. In addition, we compete with finance companies, mutual fund companies, insurance companies, brokerage firms, securities dealers, investment banking companies, financial technology and other nontraditional lending and banking companies, and a variety of other types of companies. These companies may have fewer regulatory constraints, and some have lower cost structures or tax burdens.
The primary components of our business that we believe differentiate us from our competitors are the quality of service delivered, our local community knowledge, convenience of office locations, online banking functionality and other delivery methods, range of products offered, pricing, and the overall relationship with our clients. We strive to compete effectively in all of these areas to remain successful.
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
This section describes the material elements of selected laws and regulations applicable to us. The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes and
5

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
regulations described. Changes in applicable laws or regulations, and in their application by regulatory agencies cannot be predicted; however, they may have a material effect on our business and results.
On September 30, 2018, we completed the merger of Zions Bancorporation, our former holding company, with and into Zions Bancorporation, N.A., sometimes referred to herein as the “restructuring.” More information about the restructuring and its effects can be found in the proxy statement filed by Zions Bancorporation with the SEC on July 24, 2018. In connection with completing the restructuring, we also received approval of an application filed with the Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) seeking a determination that we are not “systemically important” as defined by provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”).
The banking and financial services business in which we engage is highly regulated. Such regulation is intended to improve the stability of banking and financial companies and to protect the interests of customers and taxpayers. These regulations are not generally intended to protect the interests of our shareholders or creditors, and may have the consequence of reducing returns to our shareholders. Banking laws and regulations have given financial regulators expanded powers over many aspects of the financial services industry, which have reduced, and may continue to reduce, returns earned by shareholders.
Legislative changes to laws governing the financial industry occur frequently. Some of this legislation materially affects the manner in which we and other financial institutions operate, including increasing the costs and other burdens of conducting our businesses. In addition, the banking agencies regularly promulgate new regulations or modify existing regulations, which also have significant impact on the financial industry. The content and impact of such regulatory changes cannot presently be determined. We are committed to both satisfying regulatory expectations and providing attractive shareholder returns. However, given the ever-evolving regulatory environment, the results of these efforts cannot yet be known.
General
We are subject to the provisions of the National Bank Act and other statutes governing national banks, as well as the rules and regulations of the OCC, the CFPB, and the FDIC. We are also subject to examination and supervision by the OCC and examination by the CFPB in respect of federal consumer financial regulations. We, as well as some of our subsidiaries, are also subject to regulation by other federal and state agencies. These regulatory agencies may exert considerable influence over our activities through their supervisory and examination roles. Our brokerage and investment advisory subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”), and state securities regulators.
The National Bank Act
Prior to the restructuring, Zions Bancorporation’s corporate affairs were governed by Utah state law, and securities law matters were governed by the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), as administered by the SEC. Each of these legal frameworks is well-developed and used widely by public companies.
Following the restructuring, our corporate affairs are governed by the National Bank Act and related regulations administered by the OCC. With respect to securities matters, we are not subject to the Securities Act, but are subject to OCC regulations governing securities offerings. Our common stock and certain other securities are registered, or deemed registered, under the Exchange Act, which vests the OCC with the power to administer and enforce certain sections of the Exchange Act applicable to banks, though we continue to make filings required by the Exchange Act with the SEC as a voluntary filer. These statutory and regulatory frameworks are not as well-developed as the corporate and securities law frameworks applicable to many other publicly held corporations.
The Dodd-Frank Act
The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations broadly affect the financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act involves mandatory divestiture of certain equity investments, increased regulation of executive and incentive-based compensation, increased bank fees to regulatory agencies, and numerous other provisions aimed at strengthening the sound operation of the financial services sector. Regulations promulgated under the Dodd-Frank
6

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
Act require many banks to maintain greater levels of capital and liquid assets and adhere to the annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis (“CCAR”) process administered by the Federal Reserve Bank (“FRB”). As a result of the restructuring and FSOC approval, we are no longer subject to these capital and CCAR requirements. However, we continue to conduct internal stress testing and capital management measures that are similar to CCAR requirements, and remain subject to other regulatory requirements that may reduce our flexibility to return capital to shareholders and respond to other market developments and opportunities. These regulatory requirements include the OCC’s heightened standard guidelines, which establish minimum standards for certain large insured financial institutions, such as us, for the design and implementation of a risk governance framework and for board oversight of such framework’s design and implementation.
We also remain subject to the Dodd-Frank Act’s provisions and related regulations that affect the fees we must pay to regulatory agencies and the pricing of certain products and services, including debit card interchange fees and the assessment base for federal deposit insurance, among others.
The Dodd-Frank Act also created the CFPB, which is responsible for promulgating regulations designed to protect consumers’ financial interests and examining large financial institutions for compliance with, and enforcing, those regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act adds prohibitions on unfair, deceptive or abusive acts and practices to the scope of consumer protection regulations overseen and enforced by the CFPB. The Dodd-Frank Act subjected national banks to the possibility of further regulation by restricting the preemption of state laws by federal laws. Restricting the scope of federal preemption could burden national banks with the requirement that they also comply with certain state laws covering matters already covered by federal law. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act gives greater power to state attorneys general to pursue legal actions against banking organizations for violations of federal law.
We, and other companies subject to the Dodd-Frank Act, must adhere to requirements regarding the time, manner, and form of compensation given to key executives and other personnel receiving incentive compensation. These restrictions include documentation and governance, deferral, risk-balancing, and clawback requirements. Any deficiencies in compensation practices may be incorporated into the organization’s supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make acquisitions or engage in other activities, or could result in regulatory enforcement actions.
Capital Standards – Basel Framework
The Basel III capital rules define the components of capital and address other issues affecting the numerator in banking institutions’ regulatory capital ratios and also address risk weights and other issues affecting the denominator in banking institutions’ regulatory capital ratios. The Basel III capital rules, among other things, (1) introduced a new capital measure called “Common Equity Tier 1” (“CET1”), (2) specified that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and “Additional Tier 1 capital” instruments meeting specified requirements, (3) applied most deductions/adjustments to regulatory capital measures to CET1 and not to the other components of capital, thus potentially requiring higher levels of CET1 in order to meet minimum ratios, and (4) expanded the scope of the deductions/adjustments from capital, as compared with prior regulations.
Under the Basel III capital rules, the minimum capital ratio requirements are as follows:
•4.5% CET1 to risk-weighted assets;
•6.0% Tier 1 capital (i.e., CET1 plus Additional Tier 1) to risk-weighted assets;
•8.0% Total capital (i.e., Tier 1 plus Tier 2) to risk-weighted assets; and
•4.0% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets as reported on consolidated financial statements (known as the “leverage ratio”).
The Basel III capital rules also require us to maintain a 2.5% “capital conservation buffer” designed to absorb losses during periods of economic stress, composed entirely of CET1, on top of the minimum risk-weighted asset ratios, effectively resulting in minimum ratios of (1) CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0%, (2) Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.5%, and (3) Total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 10.5%. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the capital conservation buffer face constraints on dividends, equity repurchases, and compensation based on the amount of the shortfall.
7

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
The severity of the constraint depends on the amount of the shortfall and the institution’s “eligible retained income” (that is four quarter trailing net income, net of distributions and tax effect not reflected in net income).
The Basel III capital rules also prescribed a standardized approach for calculating risk-weighted assets that expanded the risk-weighting categories from Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50%, and 100%) to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally ranging from 0% for U.S. government and agency securities, to 600% for certain equity exposures, to 1,250% for certain securitization exposures, and resulting in higher risk weights for a variety of asset categories. In addition, the Basel III capital rules provided more advantageous risk weights for derivatives and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying central counterparty and increased the scope of eligible guarantors and eligible collateral for purposes of credit risk mitigation.
On July 9, 2019, the federal banking agencies issued a final rule to simplify certain aspects of the regulatory capital rules for “nonadvanced approach” banking organizations. The final rule simplifies the regulatory capital requirements for mortgage servicing assets, certain deferred tax assets arising from temporary differences, and investments in the capital of unconsolidated financial institutions. The final rule replaces multiple deduction thresholds with a single 25% deduction threshold for each of these categories and requires that a 250% risk weight be applied to mortgage servicing assets and deferred tax assets that are not deducted from capital.
As allowed under the Basel III capital rules, we made a one-time permanent election as of January 1, 2015 to exclude the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income (“AOCI”) items in determining regulatory capital and capital ratios.
Basel III also required additional regulatory capital disclosures to be made that are commonly referred to as “Pillar 3” disclosures. These disclosures require us to make prescribed regulatory disclosures on a quarterly basis regarding our capital structure adequacy and risk-weighted assets. We began publishing these Pillar 3 disclosures in 2015, and such disclosures are available on our website.
The Basel Committee has issued a series of updates that propose other changes to capital regulations. In one of these, the Basel Committee finalized a revised framework for calculating minimum capital requirements for market risk, with an effective date for reporting under the revised framework for market risk capital of January 1, 2022. We are currently not subject to the market risk capital rules as we do not engage in substantial trading activity. The U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have not yet proposed rules implementing these revisions for U.S. banking organizations. We met all capital adequacy requirements under the Basel III capital rules as of December 31, 2020.
Capital Planning and Stress Testing
We continue to utilize stress testing as an important mechanism to inform our decisions on the appropriate level of capital, based upon actual and hypothetically stressed economic conditions. The stress test results reflect a set of forward-looking stress tests based upon hypothetical economic scenarios generated in conjunction with Moody's Analytics. Moody’s Protracted Slump scenario, a downside 4% scenario, is the primary stress scenario we considered for our internal stress scenario, certain variables of which we adjusted to test certain idiosyncrasies that may be unique to us. Detailed disclosure of our historical internal stress test results can be found on our website. The 2020 internal stress test included hypothetical scenarios reflective of the ongoing economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The results of the stress test indicated that we would maintain capital ratios at levels adequate for our risk profile throughout the nine-quarter horizon for the hypothetical stress test.
Liquidity
Historically, regulation and monitoring of bank liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic measures. However, in January 2016, the FRB and other banking regulators enacted final rules (“Final Liquidity Coverage Ratio (“LCR”) Rule”) implementing a U.S. version of the Basel Committee’s LCR requirement. The LCR is intended to ensure that banks hold sufficient amounts of securities and other liquid assets to cover the anticipated net cash outflows during a hypothetical acute 30-day stress scenario. The Final LCR Rule applies to large, internationally active banking organizations (those
8

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
with at least $250 billion in total assets or at least $10 billion in on-balance sheet foreign exposure). While the Final LCR Rule does not apply to us, we manage liquidity in accordance with the Basel III liquidity requirements. Furthermore, we utilize internal liquidity stress tests as our primary tool for establishing and managing liquidity guidelines including, but not limited to, holdings of investment securities and other liquid assets, maintaining levels of readily available contingency funding, concentrations of funding sources, and maturity profile of liabilities.
Financial Privacy and Cyber Security
The federal banking regulators have enacted rules that limit the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties, including provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, which require financial institutions to disclose privacy policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain personal information to a nonaffiliated third party. These regulations affect how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial companies and conveyed to outside vendors. In addition, consumers may also prevent disclosure of certain information among affiliated companies that is assembled or used to determine eligibility for a product or service, such as that shown on consumer credit reports and asset and income information from applications. Consumers also have the option to direct banks and other financial institutions not to share information about transactions and experiences with affiliated companies for the purpose of marketing products or services. Federal law makes it a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature by fraudulent or deceptive means.
In October 2016, the federal banking regulators jointly issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking on enhanced cyber risk management standards that is intended to increase the operational resilience of large and interconnected entities under their supervision. Although the joint proposal was withdrawn in early 2020, cybersecurity remains a regulatory priority and is likely to be the subject of future rulemaking.
State regulators have been increasingly active in implementing privacy and cybersecurity standards and regulations. Recently, several states have enacted regulations requiring certain financial institutions to implement cybersecurity programs and providing detailed requirements with respect to these programs, including data encryption requirements. Many states have also recently implemented or modified their data breach notification and data privacy requirements. In June 2018, the California legislature passed the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the “CCPA”), which took effect on January 1, 2020. On November 3, 2020, the CCPA was amended and expanded by the approval of California ballot initiative, Proposition 24, known as the California Privacy Rights Act (the “CPRA”). The CCPA, as amended, covers businesses that obtain or access personal information on California residents, grants them enhanced privacy rights and control over their personal information, and imposes significant requirements on covered companies with respect to individual data privacy rights. Some of the rights afforded to California residents also extend to California employees, though the CPRA amendments now exempt certain employee information and employer usage from some of the CPRA provisions until at least January 1, 2023. Other states have implemented, or are considering, similar privacy laws. We expect this trend of state-level activity to continue and are continually monitoring developments in the states in which we operate.
In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”) established new requirements regarding the handling of personal data of European Union (“EU”) residents. We believe the applicability of the GDPR to us is minimal as we do not offer goods or services to EU residents or monitor their behaviors. Data and cybersecurity laws and regulations are evolving rapidly, remain a focus of state and federal regulators, and will continue to have a significant impact on our risk management practices.
Prompt Corrective Action
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (“FDICIA”) requires each federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of insured depository institutions, including but not limited to those that fall below one or more prescribed minimum capital ratios. Pursuant to FDICIA, the FDIC promulgated regulations defining the following five categories in which an insured depository institution will be placed, based on the level of its capital ratios: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly under-capitalized, and critically under-capitalized. Under the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA as modified
9

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
by the Basel III capital rules, an insured depository institution will generally be classified as well-capitalized if it has a CET1 ratio of at least 6.5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. In addition, an insured depository institution will generally be classified as under-capitalized if its CET1 ratio is under 4.5%, its total risk-based capital ratio is less than 8%, its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio is less than 6%, or its Tier 1 leverage ratio is less than 4%. An institution that, based upon its capital levels, is classified as “well-capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” or “under-capitalized,” may be treated as though it were in the next lower capital category if the appropriate federal banking agency, after notice and opportunity for hearing, determines that an unsafe or unsound condition or an unsafe or unsound practice warrants such treatment. At each successive lower capital category, an insured depository institution is subject to more restrictions and prohibitions, including restrictions on growth, restrictions on interest rates paid on deposits, restrictions or prohibitions on payment of dividends and restrictions on the acceptance of brokered deposits. Furthermore, if a bank is classified in one of the under-capitalized categories, it is required to submit a capital restoration plan to the federal bank regulator.
Other Regulations
We are subject to a wide range of other requirements and restrictions contained in both the laws of the U.S. and the states in which we and our subsidiaries operate. These regulations include but are not limited to the following:
•Limitations on dividends payable to shareholders. Our ability to pay dividends on both our common and preferred stock is subject to regulatory restrictions. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
•Safety and soundness standards prescribed in the FDICIA, including standards related to internal controls, information systems, internal audit, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth and compensation, as well as other operational and management standards deemed appropriate by the federal banking agencies. The safety and soundness requirements give bank regulatory agencies significant latitude in their supervisory authority over us.
•Requirements for approval of acquisitions and activities and restrictions on other activities. The National Bank Act requires regulatory and shareholder approval of all mergers between a national bank and another national or state bank and do not allow for the direct merger into a national bank of a nonaffiliated nonbank. See discussion under “Risk Factors.” Other laws and regulations governing national banks contain similar provisions concerning acquisitions and activities.
•Limits on bank organization activities, which are more limited than activities that can be conducted by bank holding company organizations.
•Limitations on the amount of loans to a borrower and its affiliates.
•Limitations on transactions with affiliates, as expanded by the Dodd-Frank Act.
•Restrictions on the nature and amount of any investments and ability to underwrite certain securities.
•Requirements for opening of branches and the acquisition of other financial entities.
•Fair lending and truth in lending requirements to provide equal access to credit and to protect consumers in credit transactions.
•Broker-dealer and investment advisory regulations. One of our subsidiaries is a broker-dealer that is authorized to engage in securities underwriting and other broker-dealer activities. This company is registered with the SEC and is a member of FINRA. Another subsidiary is a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, and as such, is supervised by the SEC. Certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to various U.S. federal and state laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the carrying on of business for failure to comply with such laws.
•Community Reinvestment Act (“CRA”) requirements. The CRA requires banks to help serve the credit needs in their communities, including providing credit to low- and moderate-income individuals. If we fail to adequately serve our communities, penalties may be imposed including denials of applications to add branches, relocate, add subsidiaries and affiliates, and merge with or purchase other financial institutions.
10

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
•Anti-money laundering regulations. The Bank Secrecy Act, Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening of America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (“USA Patriot Act”), and other federal laws require financial institutions to assist U.S. government agencies in detecting and preventing money laundering and other illegal acts by maintaining policies, procedures and controls designed to detect and report money laundering, terrorist financing, and other suspicious activity.
We are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and other federal and state laws and regulations which address, among other issues, corporate governance, auditing and accounting, executive compensation, and enhanced and timely disclosure of corporate information. The National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations (“NASDAQ”) has also enacted corporate governance rules, which are intended to allow shareholders and investors to more easily and efficiently monitor the performance of companies and their directors.
Our Board of Directors has overseen management’s establishment of a comprehensive system of corporate governance and risk practices. This system includes policies and guidelines such as Corporate Governance Guidelines; a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Employees; a Directors Code of Conduct; a Related Party Transaction Policy; Stock Ownership and Retention Guidelines; a Compensation Clawback Policy; an insider trading policy including provisions prohibiting hedging and placing restrictions on the pledging of bank stock by insiders; and charters for the Executive, Audit, Risk Oversight, Compensation, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees. More information on our corporate governance practices is available on our website at www.zionsbancorporation.com. Our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
We have adopted policies, procedures and controls to address compliance with the requirements of the banking, securities, and other laws and regulations described above or otherwise applicable to us. Management monitors these laws and regulations and regularly reviews and updates its policies, procedures and controls in anticipation of industry and regulatory changes.
Regulators, Congress, state legislatures, and international consultative bodies continue to enact rules, laws, and policies to regulate the financial services industry and public companies and to protect consumers and investors. The nature of these laws and regulations and the effect of such policies on our future business and earnings results cannot be predicted.
GOVERNMENT MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES AND ACTIONS
Our business and earnings results are affected not only by general economic conditions, but also by policies enacted by various governmental authorities. We are particularly affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the FRB, including the current low level of both short-term and long-term interest rates and the national supply of bank credit. We are also affected by the actions of various governmental authorities in response to the economic effects of terrorism or other geopolitical instabilities, natural disasters, severe weather conditions, and public health emergencies, such as the economic stimulus programs included in the 2020 Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (“CARES”) Act resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
In view of the changing conditions in the economy and the effect of such policies, it is difficult to predict future changes in loan demand, deposit levels and interest rates, or their effect on our business and earnings. Monetary, fiscal, and other policy initiatives and actions have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future.
HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
We are proud of our employees who bring their unique, diverse talents to work each day. Our management and Board value our employees and are committed to identifying, recognizing, and creating fulfilling opportunities for people within our organization, and rewarding them for their contributions to our success.
COVID-19 has had a significant impact on how we work and the work we perform. At the outset of the pandemic, we quickly transitioned more than 70% of our employees to working remotely and implemented safety procedures
11

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
and policies to keep our branch employees as safe as possible while they performed essential in-person services. We were also heavily involved in supporting customers with PPP loans, rewarding employees directly involved in the effort with meaningful incentives, and paying $1,000 bonuses to all our employees with salaries less than $150,000 for supporting this important effort.
Our total full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2020 was 9,678, a decrease of 5% from the prior year period. The following schedule describes certain demographic attributes of our employees.
Schedule 1
Women		Minorities	Employee Roles				Management	51 	%		27 	%	Non-management	60 	%		37 	%	Overall	58 	%		35 	% 
We have an exceptional team of women senior leaders that was recognized as one of five “Top Teams” for 2020 in American Banker magazine’s issue of the “Most Powerful Women in Banking and Finance.” This year marks the fifth time we have been honored as a Top Team. Additionally, in the November 2020 issue of American Banker magazine, we were honored among 85 of the “Best Banks to Work For in 2020,” and we ranked sixth among large banks with assets greater than $10 billion. We have been recognized on this list for all eight years of its existence.
We manage our human capital through the following programs and initiatives:
Cultivating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment for our customers and our employees
We believe in an environment where people are respected and valued, regardless of their differences, along with a talented workforce that reflects our diverse communities. We also believe that our performance is stronger when we are able to draw upon the talents and experience of a diverse team of employees.
Our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report highlights several achievements in this area. For example, our Banker Development Program, College Internship Program, and Mentor Program have significant participation from women and minorities.
Throughout the organization, employee business resource groups foster a sense of community and enable greater connectivity and support among employees through forum meetings and discussions. This includes groups for African Americans, Hispanic/Latinx, LGBTQIA, and women, among others. These groups are open to all employees and offer networking and initiatives that support our commitment to diversity, both internally and externally.
Attracting and developing talent for long-term success
We are committed to recruiting and retaining the most qualified individuals who reflect the diversity of the markets we serve, to helping our employees grow in their careers, and to actively developing talent for future leadership opportunities. As we attract and hire talent, we proactively consider the demand for competencies that will be needed within the workforce of the future.
We are proud to offer more than 2,000 learning options for employees to create tailored learning plans for personal and professional development. We make available new manager programs, tuition reimbursement, education sponsorship opportunities, job shadowing, coaching, and formal mentoring programs. Our talent development program and individual development plans focus on education, experience, and exposure to help create well-rounded, successful employees.
Recognizing, engaging, and rewarding our employees
We support a culture of integrity, engagement, and achievement through comprehensive rewards and recognition. Our programs are designed to enhance the employee experience, drive retention, promote recognition, and reward
12

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
high performance. We provide meaningful upside opportunities for those who take accountability for business objectives that help us deliver superior results while reducing risk.
We routinely assess pay equity among employees across our organization by analyzing potential disparities in pay based on gender, minority status, and other factors. These actions help us compensate employees fairly. During 2020, we enlisted the services of an independent third party who found that after adjusting for relevant variables such as education, experience, and geography, women are paid, on average, approximately 99% of what men are paid, and minorities are paid approximately 98% of what non-minorities are paid. In a relatively few cases, we identified outlier situations that have been subsequently addressed.
Our employees provide regular feedback through our robust listening strategy, which includes quarterly leadership calls, biannual employee opinion surveys, and targeted focus groups. These forums for employee input continue to help strengthen working relationships with managers, improve clarity of organizational purpose and goals, and reinforce our guiding principles and code of business conduct and ethics.
Finally, we value work-life balance and strive to create a work environment that supports our employees with mental, physical, social, and financial wellness. Some of our key benefits include the following:
•Corporate match for our 401(k) plan of 4.5% of earnings, plus annual profit-sharing contributions;
•Health care plan options including behavioral health, wellness, and autism spectrum disorder services;
•Preventive prescription drug coverage not subject to deductibles;
•Paid parental program allowing time off for mothers, fathers, and domestic partners;
•Adoption assistance program; and
•Company paid time off for charitable contributions to our giving campaign and volunteer opportunities.
ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS
Our growth strategy is driven by key factors while adhering to defined risk parameters. The key elements of our strategy reflect our prudent risk-taking philosophy. We generate revenue by taking prudent and appropriately priced risks. These factors are outlined in our Risk Management Framework.
Our Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, and a Risk Oversight Committee of the Board, approved a Risk Management Framework, and appointed an Enterprise Risk Management Committee (“ERMC”) to oversee and implement the Risk Management Framework. The ERMC is comprised of senior management and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer. Our most material risk exposure has traditionally come from the acceptance of credit risk inherent in extensions of credit to relationship customers. In addition to credit risk, these committees also monitor the following level one risk areas: market and interest rate risk; liquidity risk; strategic and business risk; operational risk; technology risk; cyber risk; capital/financial reporting risk; legal/compliance risk (including regulatory risk); and reputational risk, as outlined in our risk taxonomy. Although not a specific risk identified in our risk taxonomy, an additional risk factor related to the COVID-19 pandemic has been added below. Additional governance and oversight include Board-approved policies and management committees with direct focus on these specific risk categories.
Although not comprehensive, the following describes several risk factors that are material to us:
Credit Risk
Credit quality has adversely affected us in the past and may adversely affect us in the future.
Credit risk is one of our most significant risks. A decline in the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the local economies in which we conduct operations could result in, among other things, deterioration in credit quality and/or reduced demand for credit, including a resultant adverse effect on the income from our loan portfolio, an increase in charge-offs, and an increase in the ACL.
13

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
We have concentrations of risk in our loan portfolio, including loans secured by real estate, oil and gas-related lending, and leveraged and enterprise value lending, which may have unique risk characteristics that may adversely affect our results.
Concentration or counterparty risk could adversely affect us. Concentration risk across our loan and investment portfolios could pose significant additional credit risk to us due to exposures which perform in a similar fashion. Counterparty risk could also pose additional credit risk.
We engage in commercial term real estate lending, as well as construction and land acquisition and development lending, primarily in our Western states footprint. We also have a concentration in oil and gas-related lending, primarily in Texas. Both commercial real estate (“CRE”) and oil and gas-related lending are subject to specific risks, including volatility and potential significant and prolonged declines in collateral values and activity levels. Because our real estate lending is concentrated in the Western states, collateral values in that area may behave differently than in other parts of the U.S. We may have other unidentified concentrated or correlated risks in our loan portfolio.
Our business is highly correlated to local economic conditions in a specific geographic region of the U.S.
We provide a wide range of banking products and related services through our local management teams and unique brands in Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Texas, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. Approximately 74% of our total net interest income relates to our banking operations in Utah/Idaho, Texas, and California for both of the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. As a result of this geographic concentration, our financial results depend largely upon economic conditions in these market areas. Accordingly, adverse economic conditions affecting these three states in particular could significantly affect our consolidated operations and financial results. For example, our credit risk could be elevated to the extent that our lending practices in these three states focus on borrowers or groups of borrowers with similar economic characteristics, which are similarly affected by the same adverse economic events. At December 31, 2020, loan balances associated with our banking operations in Utah/Idaho, Texas, and California comprised 76% of our commercial lending portfolio, 73% of the CRE lending portfolio, and 70% of the consumer lending portfolio.
We could be negatively affected by adverse economic conditions.
Adverse economic conditions negatively affect our business, including our loan and securities portfolios, capital levels, results of operations, and financial condition. Most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic has created significant uncertainties and disruptions in the U.S. and global economies, including widespread effects on our customers, business, financial results, and overall condition. These conditions have adversely affected, and may continue to affect, some of our customer's ability to make timely payments on obligations, particularly in industries hard hit by the pandemic, such as hospitality, retail, and commercial real estate. Pandemic conditions have also reduced certain types of fee income due to reduced loan origination activity and credit card spending. Government stimulus and other programs designed to support the U.S. and global economies during the pandemic, which have provided additional liquidity to individuals and small businesses, and have contributed to increased deposits, may be discontinued or may not be sufficient to improve these conditions. Any sustained weakness or further weakening in economic conditions would adversely affect us.
For information about how we manage credit risk, see “Credit Risk Management” on page 55 in MD&A.
Market and Interest Rate Risk
Failure to effectively manage our interest rate risk and prolonged periods of low interest rates could adversely affect our results.
Net interest income is the largest component of our revenue. A prolonged period of low interest rates, such as the one that exists today, has a materially adverse impact on our net interest income and results in declining net interest margins. Interest rate risk is managed by the Asset Liability Management Committee. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the interest rate environment and increase our risk. These factors include competitive pricing pressures for our loans and deposits, adverse shifts in the mix of deposits and other funding sources, and volatile market interest rates resulting from general economic conditions and the policies of governmental and
14

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
regulatory agencies, in particular the FRB. As interest rates on earning assets decline, our cost of funds may not decline commensurately.
Some components of our balance sheet are very sensitive to rising and falling rates. On an ongoing basis, we use various strategies to manage our interest rate risk, such as entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors.
Interest rates on our financial instruments might be subject to change based on developments related to LIBOR, which could adversely impact our revenue, expenses, and value of those financial instruments.
In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority, the authority regulating LIBOR, along with various other regulatory bodies, announced that LIBOR would likely be discontinued at the end of 2021. LIBOR makes up the most liquid and common interest rate index in the world and is commonly referenced in financial instruments. We have exposure to LIBOR in a variety of our financial contracts. Instruments that may be impacted include loans, securities, and derivatives, among other financial contracts indexed to LIBOR and that mature after December 31, 2021.
While there is no consensus on what reference rate or rates may become acceptable alternatives to LIBOR, in May 2018, the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of U.S. financial market participants, selected by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, started to publish the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as an alternative to LIBOR. SOFR is a broad measure of the cost of overnight borrowings collateralized by Treasury securities that was selected by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee due to the depth and robustness of the U.S. Treasury repurchase market. At this time, it is not certain whether SOFR will become an accepted alternative to LIBOR, especially for the types of commercial loans that constitute a major portion of our loan portfolio.
The market transition away from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate, such as SOFR, is complex and could have a range of adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In particular, any such transition could:
•adversely affect the interest rates paid or received on, and the value of, our floating-rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments indexed to LIBOR, or other securities or financial arrangements given LIBOR’s dominant role in determining market interest rates globally;
•result in a replacement rate for LIBOR that does not adjust for changes in the credit environment and does not have a term structure;
•prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators with respect to our preparation and readiness for the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate;
•result in disputes, litigation or other actions with counterparties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in LIBOR-based loans and securities; and
•require the transition to, or development of, appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition our risk management processes from LIBOR-based products to those based on the applicable alternative pricing benchmark, such as SOFR.
The manner and impact of this transition, as well as the effect of these developments on our funding costs, loan and investment and trading securities portfolios, asset-liability management, and business, is uncertain.
For further information about how we manage LIBOR, market and interest rate risk, see “Interest Rate and Market Risk Management” on page 67 in MD&A.
Liquidity Risk
We and the holders of our securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable rating actions from rating agencies.
Our ability to access the capital markets is important to our overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned to us by rating agencies and particular classes of securities that we issue. The rates we pay on our securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that we and our securities receive from
15

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
recognized rating agencies. Ratings downgrades to us or our securities could increase our costs or otherwise have a negative effect on our liquidity position, financial condition or the market prices of our securities.
Changes in sources of liquidity and capital and liquidity requirements may limit our operations and potential growth.
Our primary source of liquidity is our supply of deposits from our customers. The continued availability of this supply depends on customers maintaining those deposits with us. While we make significant efforts to consider and plan for changes in our deposit funding, market-related forces and a wide variety of other events could impact the liquidity value we derive from our deposits.
Liquidity requirements and sources are also subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the OCC and the FDIC, including risk-based and leverage capital ratio requirements, as well as Basel III liquidity requirements tailored to institutions with assets under $100 billion.
For information about how we manage liquidity risk, see “Liquidity Risk Management” on page 73 in MD&A.
Strategic and Business Risk
Problems encountered by other financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on us.
The soundness and stability of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect us. Information security and vendor management processes are in place to actively identify, manage and monitor actual and potential impacts.
The regulation of incentive compensation under the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect our ability to retain our highest performing employees.
Bank regulatory agencies have published regulations and guidance that limit the manner and amount of compensation that banking organizations provide to employees. These regulations and guidance may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key personnel. If we were to suffer such adverse effects with respect to our employees, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.
We have made, and are continuing to make, significant changes that include, among other things, organizational restructurings, efficiency initiatives, and replacement or upgrades of certain core technology systems to improve our control environment and operating efficiency. The ultimate success and completion of these changes, and their effect on us, may vary significantly from initial planning, which could materially adversely affect us.
Over the last several years, we have completed numerous improvement projects, including the merger of our bank holding company into the Bank; combining the legal charters of our seven affiliate banks into one; consolidating 15 loan operations sites into two; replacing our core loan systems; upgrading our accounting systems; installing a credit origination work flow system; streamlining our small business and retail lending, mortgage, wealth management and foreign exchange businesses; and investing in data quality and information security. Ongoing investment continues in a multi-year project to replace our core deposit systems, a collection of customer-facing digital capabilities, and a variety of other projects to simplify how we do business.
These initiatives and changes continue to be implemented and are in various stages of completion. By their very nature, projections of duration, cost, expected savings, expected efficiencies, and related items are subject to change and significant variability. There can be no certainty that we will achieve the expected benefits or other intended results associated with these projects.
We may encounter significant adverse developments in the completion and implementation of these projects. These
16

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
may include significant time delays, cost overruns, loss of key people, technological problems, processing failures, and other adverse developments. We may also experience operational disruptions, failure, or capacity constraints due to the performance, level of concentration, replacement costs, and our dependence on third-party vendors. Any or all of these issues could result in disruptions to our systems, processes, control environment, procedures, and employees, which may adversely impact our customers and our ability to conduct business.
We have plans, controls, policies, and procedures designed to prevent or limit the negative effect of these potential adverse developments. However, there can be no assurance that any such adverse developments will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately remediated. The ultimate effect of any adverse development could subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could materially affect us, including our control environment, operating efficiency, and results of operations.
Operational Risk
Catastrophic events including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, prolonged drought, and pandemics may adversely affect us and the general economy, financial and capital markets, and specific industries.
We have significant operations and a significant customer base in Utah, Texas, California, and other regions where natural and other disasters may occur. These regions are known for being vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires, floods, prolonged droughts, and other weather-related events. These types of natural catastrophic events at times have disrupted the local economy, our business and customers, and have posed physical risks to our property. In addition, catastrophic events occurring in other regions of the world may have an impact on us and our customers. Although we have business continuity and disaster recovery programs in place, a significant catastrophic event could materially and adversely affect our operating results.
We could be adversely affected by failure in our internal controls.
We have established internal controls over financial reporting and other operations. Because of their inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. A failure in our internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on our earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators, and investors may have of us. We continue to devote a significant amount of effort, time, and resources to improving our controls and ensuring operational soundness and compliance with complex accounting standards and regulations. These efforts also include the management of controls to mitigate operational risks for programs and processes across the Bank.
We could be adversely affected by internal, as well as external, fraud schemes.
We have systems and procedures in place to monitor our operations and to detect and mitigate attempts to commit fraud by both internal and external actors. We also mitigate certain of these risks through the purchase of insurance. However, there can be no certainty that we will identify, prevent or otherwise mitigate all instances of fraud that have the potential to result in material losses.
We use models in the management of the Bank. There is risk that these models are inaccurate in various ways, which can cause us to make suboptimal decisions.
We attempt to carefully develop, document, back test, and validate the models used in the management of the Bank. For example, we use models to inform our estimate of the allowance for credit losses, to manage interest rate and liquidity risk, to project stress losses in various segments of our loan and securities portfolios, and to project net revenue under stress. Models are inherently imperfect for a number of reasons and cannot perfectly predict outcomes. Management decisions based in part on such models, therefore, may be suboptimal.
We outsource various operations to third party vendors which could adversely impact our business and operational performance.
We rely on various vendors to perform operational activities to conduct our business. We have established operational controls and monitoring through our third-party vendor management programs to oversee and manage these vendors to help ensure they operate in a manner consistent with the business standards and practices that we
17

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
must adhere to or with which we must comply. We have developed and implemented service level agreements and contractual controls to assist us in that effort and have implemented regular reporting to monitor and manage our third-party vendors. Replacing or finding alternatives for vendors who do not perform adequately, however, can be difficult and costly and may adversely impact our customers and other operations.
For information about how we manage operational risk, see “Operational, Technology, and Cyber Risk Management” on page 76 in MD&A.
Technology Risk
We could be adversely affected by our ability to develop, adopt, and implement technology advancements.
Our ability to remain competitive is increasingly dependent upon our ability to maintain critical technological capabilities, and to identify and develop new, value-added products for existing and future customers. These technological competitive pressures arise from both traditional banking and non-traditional sources. Larger banks may have greater resources and economies of scale attendant to maintaining existing capabilities and developing digital and other technologies, while financial technology companies, referred to as “FinTechs,” and technology platform companies, continue to emerge and compete with traditional financial institutions across a wide variety of products and services. Our failure to remain technologically competitive could impede our time to market and reduce customer satisfaction, product accessibility, and relevance.
We could be adversely impacted by system vulnerabilities, failures or outages impacting operations and customer services such as online and mobile banking.
We rely on hundreds of information technology systems that work together in supporting internal operations and customer services. Vulnerabilities in, or a failure or outage of one or many of these systems could impact the ability to perform internal operations and provide services to customers such as online banking, mobile banking, remote deposit capture and other services dependent on system processing. These risks increase as systems and software approach the end of their useful life or require more frequent updates and modifications. We have response and recovery processes in place to address these types of issues but cannot guarantee that such occurrences will not still have an operational or customer impact.
For information regarding risks associated with the replacement or upgrades of our core technology systems, see “Strategic and Business Risk” on page 16 in Risk Factors. For information about how we manage technology risk, see “Operational, Technology, and Cyber Risk Management” on page 76 in MD&A.
Cyber Risk
We are subject to a variety of system failure and cyber security risks that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.
The Board and the Risk Committee of the Board have invested significant time on overseeing management's efforts to continue to strengthen our infrastructure and staffing, and to enhance our controls while improving the client and customer experience. Cyber defense and improving our resiliency against cybersecurity threats remain a key focus at all levels of management, and of our Board.
We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. We, our customers, and other financial institutions with which we interact, are subject to ongoing, continuous attempts to penetrate key systems by individual hackers, organized criminals, and in some cases, state-sponsored organizations. Information security risks for large financial institutions have increased significantly in recent years, in part because of the proliferation of new technologies and internet connections (e.g., Internet of things, the Internet, and mobile banking to conduct financial transactions) and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists, nation-states, activists, and other external third parties. Third parties with whom we do business also present operational and information security risks to us, including security breaches or failures of their own systems. The possibility of employee error, failure to follow security procedures, or malfeasance also presents these risks.
As cyber threats continue to evolve, we will be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense or to investigate or remediate any information security vulnerabilities.
18

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
System enhancements and updates may also create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of information technology systems, the process of enhancing our layers of defense can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. In addition, addressing certain information security vulnerabilities, such as hardware-based vulnerabilities, may affect the performance of our information technology systems. The ability of our hardware and software providers to deliver patches and updates to mitigate vulnerabilities and our ability to implement them in a timely manner can introduce additional risks, particularly when a vulnerability is being actively exploited by threat actors. The occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability.
For information about how we manage cyber risk, see “Operational, Technology, and Cyber Risk Management” on page 76 in MD&A.
Capital/Financial Reporting Risk
Internal stress testing and capital management, as well as provisions of the National Bank Act and OCC regulations, may limit our ability to increase dividends, repurchase shares of our stock, and access the capital markets.
We are required to submit stress tests to the OCC because we have assets in excess of the OCC $10 billion threshold, and we continue to utilize stress testing as an important mechanism to inform our decisions on the appropriate level of capital, based upon actual and hypothetically stressed economic conditions. The stress testing and other applicable regulatory requirements may, among other things, require us to increase our capital levels, limit our dividends or other capital distributions to shareholders, modify our business strategies, or decrease our exposure to various asset classes.
Under the National Bank Act and OCC regulations, certain capital transactions, including share repurchases, may be subject to the approval of the OCC. These requirements may limit our ability to respond to and take advantage of market developments.
Economic and other circumstances may require us to raise capital at times or in amounts that are unfavorable to us.
We must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios, as required by our banking regulators, which can change depending upon general economic conditions, as well as the particular conditions, risk profiles and growth plans of the Bank. Compliance with capital requirements may limit our ability to expand and has required, and may require, us or our subsidiaries to raise additional capital. These uncertainties and risks, including those created by legislative and regulatory uncertainties, may increase our cost of capital and other financing costs.
We could be adversely affected by accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory compliance risk.
We are exposed to accounting, financial reporting, and regulatory compliance risk. We use a number of complex financial products and services for our own capital, funding, investment and risk management needs, in addition to providing them to our customers. Estimates, judgments, and interpretations of complex and changing accounting and regulatory policies are required in order to provide and account for these products and services. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial results and conditions. The level of regulatory compliance oversight continues to be heightened as a result of rapid changes in regulations that affect financial institutions. The administration of some of these regulations and related changes has required us to comply before their formal adoption. Therefore, identification, interpretation, and implementation of complex and changing accounting standards, as well as compliance with regulatory requirements, pose an ongoing risk.
The value of our goodwill may decline in the future.
As of December 31, 2020, we had $1 billion of goodwill that was allocated to Amegy Bank (“Amegy”), California Bank & Trust (“CB&T”) and Zions Bank. If the fair value of a reporting unit is determined to be less than its
19

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
carrying value, we may have to take a charge related to the impairment of our goodwill. Such a charge would occur if we were to experience increases in the book value of a reporting unit in excess of the increase in the fair value of equity of a reporting unit. A significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower economic growth or a significant and sustained decline in the price of our common stock, any or all of which could be materially impacted by many of the risk factors described herein, may necessitate us taking charges in the future related to the impairment of our goodwill. If we were to conclude in the future that a write-down of our goodwill is necessary, we would record the appropriate charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
For information about how we manage capital, see “Capital Management” on page 77 in MD&A.
Legal/Compliance Risk
Laws and regulations applicable to us and the financial services industry impose significant limitations on our business activities and subject us to increased regulation and additional costs.
We, and the entire financial services industry, have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial personnel, systems, consulting, and other costs to comply with banking regulations, including those promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act. See “Supervision and Regulation” on page 5 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about the regulations applicable to us and the financial services industry generally.
Bank regulatory agencies and international regulatory consultative bodies have proposed or are considering new regulations and requirements, some of which may be imposed without formal promulgation. Our deposits are insured by the FDIC up to legal limits. Accordingly, we are subject to FDIC insurance assessments.
There can be no assurance that any or all of these regulatory changes or actions will ultimately be enacted. However, if enacted, some of these proposals could adversely affect us by, among other things: impacting after-tax returns earned by financial services firms in general; limiting our ability to grow; increasing taxes or fees on some of our funding or activities; limiting the range of products and services that we could offer; and requiring us to raise capital at inopportune times.
Political developments may also result in substantial changes in tax, international trade, immigration, and other policies. The extent and timing of any such changes are uncertain, as are the potential direct and indirect impacts, whether beneficial or adverse. Regulations and laws may be modified or repealed, and new legislation may be enacted that will affect us and our subsidiaries.
The ultimate impact of these proposals cannot be predicted as it is unclear which, if any, may be enacted.
We could be adversely affected by legal and governmental proceedings.
We are subject to risks associated with legal claims, litigation, and regulatory and other government proceedings. Our exposure to these proceedings has increased and may further increase as a result of stresses on customers, counterparties, and others arising from the past or current economic environments, new regulations promulgated under recently enacted statutes, the creation of new examination and enforcement bodies, and enforcement and legal actions against banking organizations. Any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties (e.g., civil money penalties under applicable banking laws), injunctions, restrictions on our business activities, or other relief. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. In general, the amounts paid by financial institutions in settlement of proceedings or investigations, including those relating to anti-money laundering matters, have been increasing dramatically. In addition, any enforcement matters could impact our supervisory and CRA ratings, which may restrict or limit our activities.
20

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
The corporate and securities laws applicable to us are not as well-developed as those applicable to a state-chartered corporation, which may impact our ability to effect corporate transactions in an efficient and optimal manner.
Prior to the restructuring, the corporate affairs of our holding company were governed by Utah state law, and securities law matters were governed by the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as administered by the SEC. Each of these legal frameworks is well-developed and used widely by public companies.
Post-restructuring, our corporate affairs are governed by the National Bank Act and related regulations administered by the OCC. With respect to securities matters, we are not subject to the Securities Act, but rather to OCC regulations governing securities offerings. Our common stock and certain other securities are registered or deemed registered under the Exchange Act, which vests the OCC with the power to administer and enforce certain sections of the Exchange Act applicable to banks, though we currently make, and intend to continue to make, filings required by the Exchange Act with the SEC as a voluntary filer. These OCC statutory and regulatory frameworks have been used by publicly traded banking organizations relatively rarely and are not as well-developed as the corporate and securities law frameworks applicable to corporations. While certain specific risks associated with operating under these frameworks are described below, unless and until these frameworks are further developed and established over time, the uncertainty of how these frameworks might apply to any given corporate or securities matters may prevent us from effecting transactions in an efficient and optimal manner or perhaps at all.
Differences between the National Bank Act and state law requirements regarding mergers could hinder our ability to execute acquisitions as efficiently and advantageously as bank holding companies or other financial institutions.
Unlike state corporate law, the National Bank Act requires shareholder approval of all mergers between a national bank and another national or state bank and does not allow for exceptions in the case of various “minor” mergers, such as a parent company’s merger with a subsidiary or an acquirer’s merger with an unaffiliated entity in which the shares issued by the acquirer do not exceed a designated percentage. The National Bank Act and related regulations may also complicate the structuring of certain nonbank acquisitions.
These differences could adversely affect the ability of the Bank and other banks registered under the National Bank Act to efficiently consummate acquisition transactions. In addition, such differences could make us less competitive as a potential acquirer in certain circumstances given that our acquisition proposal may be conditioned on Bank shareholder approval while our competitors’ proposals will not have such a condition.
Differences between the National Bank Act and state law could reduce our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares when compared with those capacities that existed for Zions Bancorporation prior to the restructuring.
The regulations and limitations applicable to us regarding the payment of dividends and repurchases or redemptions of outstanding common and preferred shares differ from the limitations and considerations that applied to our holding company prior to the restructuring. While we do not believe this change in legal restrictions resulting from the restructuring will constrain us from executing any capital plans that are currently contemplated or otherwise reasonably foreseeable in the near term, there can be no assurance that the change in legal restrictions will not have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase or redeem stock in the future.
Shares of common stock of a national bank are assessable, which may cause investors to view our common stock less favorably than that of Zions Bancorporation prior to the restructuring.
The National Bank Act provides that under certain circumstances the common stock of a national bank is assessable, i.e., holders may be subject to a levy for more funds if so determined by the OCC. In contrast, the common stock of state corporations is not subject to assessment. However, the OCC has confirmed that under the applicable provisions of the National Bank Act, assessability is limited to the par value of a national bank’s stock. Our common stock has a par value of $0.001. Moreover, according to the OCC, it has not exercised its authority to levy assessments since 1933 and views the assessability authority as a mechanism for addressing capital deficiency that has long been overtaken by developments in statute and regulation, including robust capital standards, prompt
21

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
corrective action requirements, and supervisory and enforcement authorities requiring an institution to maintain capital at a particular level. Nonetheless, potential investors may be unfamiliar with the concept of assessment and, as a result, view us less favorably as an investment.
The ability of investors to access financial and other reports filed by us readily could be adversely affected if such reports were not able to be made available publicly through the SEC or a system operated by the OCC comparable to that of the SEC.
We have been permitted to and currently make our Exchange Act filings as a voluntary filer with the SEC. However, there can be no assurance that the OCC or SEC will continue to allow us to make filings as a voluntary filer or that the OCC will develop a comparable system for making Exchange Act filings publicly available. If our Exchange Act filings ceased to be as readily available as those of bank holding companies, investors could view us less favorably.
Our ability to issue securities in an optimal manner may be adversely affected by the fact that the OCC’s securities offering regulations and organizational structure are less well-developed than those of the SEC, which applied to our holding company prior to the restructuring.
The SEC maintains a well-developed regulatory framework and well-staffed organization relating to securities offerings under, or exempt from, the Securities Act. For example, the SEC has developed integrated disclosure rules, which allow Exchange Act filings to be incorporated by reference into prospectuses distributed as required by the Securities Act. In addition, under the SEC’s rules seasoned issuers who are timely in their filings are permitted to use “automatic shelf registration,” allowing them to offer securities under a registration statement that is automatically effective upon filing. The OCC maintains its own securities offering framework applicable to national banks and their securities offerings, with which we will need to comply in order to access the public capital markets. Similar to the SEC’s offering rules, the OCC’s framework requires that registration statements be reviewed and declared or become effective. However, given that there are currently no other nationally chartered banks whose common stock has been issued under the OCC’s securities offering framework, it is unknown at this point whether and how the OCC staff would review registration statements. It is also unclear whether the OCC would apply the same mechanics for automatic shelf registration filings used by SEC-filers, or how, more generally, the OCC will function as a securities regulator. Given the extent to and manner in which we have accessed capital markets historically, or to which we currently contemplate accessing such markets, we do not believe there will be a material adverse impact on our ability to access capital markets effectively, although there can be no assurance that this will be the case. It is possible that operating under the OCC’s securities offering framework could impede our ability to sell securities at the most advantageous times or to achieve optimum pricing in offerings.
We are subject to restrictions on permissible activities that would limit the types of business we may conduct and that may make acquisitions of other financial companies more challenging.
Under applicable laws and regulations, bank holding companies and banks are generally limited to business activities and investments that are related to banking or are financial in nature. The range of permissible financial activities is set forth in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and is more limited for banks than for bank holding company organizations. The differences relate mainly to insurance underwriting (but not insurance agency activities) and merchant banking (but not broker-dealer and investment advisory activities). Loss of the bank holding company status, because of the restructuring, could make future acquisitions of financial institutions with such operations more challenging.
Our common stock is not an insured deposit.
Shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and, therefore, losses in value are not insured by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in shares of our common stock is inherently risky and is subject to the same market forces and investment risks that affect the price of common stock in any other company, including the possible loss of some or all principal invested.
22

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
Reputational Risk
We are presented with various reputational risk issues that could stem from operational, regulatory, compliance, and legal risks.
Any of the aforementioned risks may give rise to adverse publicity and damaged relationships, giving rise to reputational risk. A Reputational Risk Council was established to monitor, manage, and develop strategies to effectively manage reputational risk which includes, but is not limited to, addressing communication logistics, legal, and regulatory issues.
Other Risk
Our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
The COVID-19 pandemic has created economic and financial disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to negatively affect these aspects of our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, including the scope and duration of the pandemic, the continued effectiveness of our business continuity plan, the direct and indirect impact of the pandemic on our employees, customers, communities, counterparties and service providers, as well as other market participants, and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic.
The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to the following, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations:
•Increased unemployment and decreased consumer confidence and business activity generally, leading to an increased risk of delinquencies, defaults, and foreclosures.
•Ratings downgrades, credit deterioration and defaults in many sectors and industries, including, but not limited to, municipalities, retail, oil and gas, hotels and casinos, restaurants, telecommunications/media, real estate/construction, airlines and transportation, and leisure and recreation.
•A sudden and significant reduction in the values of the equity, fixed-income and commodity markets, and the significant increase in the volatility of those markets.
•A decrease in the rates and yields on U.S. Treasury and other securities, which may lead to decreased net interest income.
•Heightened cybersecurity, information security, and operational risks as a result of work-from-home arrangements.
We are prioritizing the safety of our customers, communities, and employees, by, among other things, limiting branch activity to a specified number of individuals at any given time, encouraging the use of drive-through services or in-office appointments, and transitioning many of our employees to working remotely. If these measures are not effective in serving our customers or affect the productivity of our employees, they may lead to significant disruptions in our business operations.
Many of our counterparties and third-party service providers have also been, and may further be, affected by “stay-at-home” orders, market volatility, and other factors that increase their risk of business disruption or that may otherwise affect their ability to perform under the terms of any agreements with us or to provide essential services.
We have offered, and may offer in the future, special financial assistance to support customers who are experiencing financial hardships related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including waivers of certain withdrawal fees from CDs, savings and money market accounts, loan payment deferrals and extensions, credit card payment extensions, temporary consumer mortgage payment forbearance and payment deferrals, suspension of new automobile and other vehicle repossessions, and suspension of new residential property foreclosures on consumer real estate loans. If such measures are not effective in mitigating the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on borrowers, we may experience higher rates of default and increased credit losses in future periods.
23

Table of Contents
ZIONS BANCORPORATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
Certain segments and industries where we have elevated credit exposure, including, but not limited to, municipalities, retail, oil and gas, hotels and casinos, restaurants, telecommunications/media, commercial and other real estate/construction/development, airlines and transportation, and leisure and recreation, have experienced significant operational challenges and financial stress as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These challenges have been particularly pronounced for many small businesses, which make up a significant portion of our customer base. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may also hinder our customers' ability to pay their loans on a timely basis or may decrease the value of collateral, which would likely cause increases in our credit losses.
Net interest income is the largest component of our revenue and is significantly affected by market rates of interest. The significant reductions to the federal funds rate have led to a decrease in the rates and yields on U.S. Treasury securities, in some rare cases declining below zero. If interest rates are reduced further in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect that our net interest income will decline, perhaps significantly. The overall effect of lower interest rates on the economic environment cannot be predicted with certainty and will depend on future actions the Federal Reserve may take to increase or reduce the targeted federal funds rate in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic conditions.
Governmental authorities have taken unprecedented measures to provide economic assistance to individual households and businesses, stabilize the markets, and support economic growth. The success of these measures is unknown, and they may not be sufficient to fully mitigate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, some measures, such as a suspension of mortgage and other loan payments and foreclosures, may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also face an increased risk of litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny because of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on market and economic conditions and actions governmental authorities take in response to those conditions.
The length of the pandemic and the efficacy of the extraordinary measures being put in place to address it are unknown. Until the pandemic subsides, we expect reduced revenues and increased customer and client defaults. Even after the pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy may experience a recession, which may be prolonged and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition, or results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this report.
